business before Questions Standing Orders ( Private Business ) Ordered , that the follow amendment to the Standing Orders relate to private business be make : in Standing Order No . 224 — examination of public bill by examiner — after paragraph 6 , insert — " ( 6a ) in the case of a public bill in relation to which the Examiner decide standing order be applicable , or of any additional provision in such a bill , the Examiner will not report that the bill , or additional provision , be non - compliant with a standing order on the ground that the date , or date , specify in the standing order have , or have , not be comply with , provide that the Examiner be satisfied that anything which be require to be do on , or by , a date specify in that standing order have be do on , or by , a date that be appropriate , have regard to the purpose of the stand order in question . " — ( the Chairman of Ways and Means . ) speaker ' s statement before we begin today ' s business , I want to make a short statement on the work of the Speaker ' s Conference . the House know how seriously I take the security of this House and its Members , staff and family , and so a year ago , I establish the conference to consider the security of Members , candidate and election , and the threat against they . I would like to extend my sincere thank to the many Members and Members ' staff who contribute their time and insight to the conference . your experience have be vital in shape the finding and recommendation outline in the report . we publish our first report in June , and today we publish our second and final report . we now come to topical question to the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions . I call Catherine Fookes . [ interruption . ] I beg your pardon ; I have be give the wrong piece of paper . oral Answers to Questions Work and Pensions the Secretary of State be ask — Pension Age Increase : Institute for Fiscal Studies Report what assessment he have make of the potential implication for his Department ' s policy of the report by the Institute for Fiscal Studies entitle , " how do people already out of employment fare when the state pension age rise " , publish on 17 September 2025 . the clock go back at the weekend , and you nearly put they forward again , Mr Speaker . I be pleased to be here answer my first set of question as the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions . I look forward to my exchange with the shadow Secretary of State , the hon . member for Faversham and Mid Kent ( Helen Whately ) , and the other spokespeople in the House . the state pension age will rise to 67 from 2028 . we continue to support later - life planning by help people review their health , finance and skill — for example , by have specific work coach for over - 50 in our jobcentre . consideration of the future of the state pension age be already under way , as ask for under the Pensions Act 2014 . I welcome the Secretary of State to his new position . in my seat of Newbury , over 5 , 200 woman have be unfairly affect by change to the state pension age . those woman be wrong through no fault of their own , and they deserve justice . with a High Court hearing due in December , this could be a crucial moment for the government — a moment to finally do the right thing . will the Secretary of State now listen to the ombudsman ' s recommendation and commit to provide compensation to woman of the Women against State Pension Inequality Campaign ? I have to remind the hon . member that when his party be in government , it support the acceleration in the rise of the basic state pension age , and that have give rise to some of the question he raise . you would not expect I to comment on ongoing litigation , Mr Speaker , and I will not , but I can assure the hon . Member and the House that we will take all relevant factor into account when consider the process for the future . previous to my election to this place , I work for a homeless charity in Harlow call streets2homes . one of its case involve a man who be homeless due to delay in get his state pension . how be the Department ensure that delay like that be not commonplace ? we hope that those entitle to the basic state pension receive a seamless and fast service . this be a pension that people contribute to throughout their life , and when they reach state pension age , we of course hope that they get it as soon as possible . access to work Scheme what step his Department be take to assess the effectiveness of the Access to work scheme in help to enable long - term career progression for disabled people . what step he be take to improve the access to work scheme . what change have be make to the access to work scheme in this parliamentary session . access to Work do an important job , but current delay with the scheme , and our ambition for an 80 % rate of employment , point to the need for reform . the consultation , launch in the " pathway to work " Green Paper , close on 30 June . we be review all aspect of the scheme in the light of the response that we receive . a constituent come to my surgery the other week who feel pretty frustrated that the access to work scheme , which once support he , be pull the rug from beneath his foot as he progress in his career . he have be a model example ; he have not let his multiple neurodivergent diagnosis hold he back . he have work hard and , with support , have earn a promotion to a deputy leadership position . at that point , the DWP decide to reassess he , and it downgrade his support — right at the moment when he feel he need to maintain that support , give his new responsibility . can the Minister assure we that when the reform come , they will ensure that people be support over the progression of their career , as well as into work in the first place ? the hon . Gentleman make a good point . obviously , I do not know the detail of the case that he refer to , but it be important that access to Work and our wide employment support enable people not just to get into work , but to thrive once they be there , exactly as he say . the access to work scheme provide vital support , and it be one of the good form of support for blind and partially sight worker , but when their award come up for review , they find that their support and award be be significantly reduce . give the Government ' s commitment to keep Britain work , will the Minister explain why blind and partially sight people be see their support cut ? will he agree to meet I and sight - loss organisation to see how we can address some of the challenge with the scheme ? there have be absolutely no change in the policy on Access to work , but there have be more scrupulous application of the exist policy and guidance over the last year . that mean that access to work award have be more consistent , and I know there have be case in which support have be reduce . I be look forward to attend the forthcoming meeting of the all - party group on eye health and visual impairment , which my hon . friend chair ; that might give we an opportunity to discuss the issue she have raise . on 20 May , I meet the Minister to speak about Access to work claim that be be deny , change or reduce , all contrary to the guideline . the Minister assure I that it be a communication issue , that the guideline have not change and that official be go to fix the problem by speak to the local jobcentre . the problem be not fix . since then , both Dawlish Gardens Trust and the no Limits caf é in Newton Abbot have cease to provide Access to work service because the system just be not work and , they say , every claim be be reject . that assessment have be mirror by the Access to work Collective . who change the guideline , and why ? be they simply be ignore to save money at the cost of vulnerable adult ? if the Minister would like more information , I be happy to meet he again . I be very happy to meet the hon . Gentleman again , but I assure he that the policy have not change . in fact , just last week we publish the spend figure on Access to Work , which go up by 17 % in the last year and by 32 % in the year before that . I do not know what happen in the particular case the hon . Gentleman refer to , but would be happy to look at it far . access to Work be vital . at the high end of the scale , it can sometimes be more expensive . I have in my constituency a very senior person in the world of theatre who run Graeae theatre . she require Access to work support but , even with the right support , there be not enough for her need , because she need a british Sign Language interpreter with she at all time . graeae theatre be at the pinnacle of assess what people need , and I would love to invite the Minister to visit it , because staff there be great at support disabled people into work , with and without Access to work support . I be aware that a big chunk of Access to work funding go on British Sign Language interpretation , and it be not unusual for people who draw on that support to hit the cap , which increase last year and be now £ 69 , 920 a year . we will look at that , along with all other aspect of the scheme , in the review we be undertake . I call the shadow Minister . back in May last year , while in opposition , the Labour party be outraged to learn that the average processing time for application to the Access to work programme be run at 43 . 9 day . in fact , so outraged be Labour Members that they make it a manifesto pledge to tackle that problem . after more than 15 month in government , Labour be far from have slash waiting time ; applicant now have to wait an average of 93 . 6 day . that be more than twice the wait time under the previous Government . after a year in government , the Labour party have double the misery and uncertainty suffer by disabled people — why ? we be fix the very serious problem leave behind by the previous Government . the number of people who be process access to work application have be increase by 118 since May last year , but the hon . Gentleman be right that delay be still a problem . that point clearly to the need for reform , which be what we be get on with . Post - 16 Education : skill need in the Economy what step he be take with Cabinet colleague to help ensure that post - 16 education provide the necessary skill to support the economy . what step he be take with Cabinet colleague to help ensure that post - 16 education provide the necessary skill to support the economy . skill be vital to give young people opportunity , for economic growth and to our country ' s renewal . that be why , as part of our youth guarantee , we be increase short course for high - demand sector such as artificial intelligence and construction , expand the number of youth hub , and partner with sport club to get help to people where they be in the community . last week , we publish the skill White Paper , which set out the next step for train the workforce of the future . I still want every young person in Derby to see technical education and apprenticeship as first - class , not second - good , route to success . university technical college , from which student be four time more likely to progress on to apprenticeship , be key to unlock that success . will my right hon . friend meet Pride Park UTC to discuss its plan to give young people in Derby real choice and real opportunity by roll out a new technical centre in our city ? my hon . friend have speak often about this , and I believe that he start his career as an apprentice . as a former Rolls - Royce worker , he will have note the skill White Paper , and of course he know all about the importance of that company to the city of Derby . I congratulate Pride Park UTC on its plan for a new technical skill centre , and I will ensure that he get a meeting with I or with the relevant Minister . my Committee ' s recent report on further education and skill highlight the poor amount of information on vocational and technical training opportunity , include apprenticeship , available to young people while they be in school . we recommend that UCAS be expand to provide a single portal for information on academic , vocational and technical opportunity , so that every young person be aware of how they can train in the skill that they need to access a good job . will the Secretary of State consider this recommendation , and work with the Department for Education to deliver it ? I welcome that question , as my hon . friend raise a very important point . if we be go to have equal status for high education and apprenticeship route , we should look at how the information about they be disseminate to potential applicant . I hope that she will be pleased to hear that I have already ask the Department to begin work in this area . one of the worry about the new regime and Skills England be the loss of independence , and the loss of what we have in the former Institute for Apprenticeships and Technical Education : a guarantee business voice , write into law . how will the Secretary of State ensure that business have a voice in set standard , and in make sure that those standard be uphold , so that everybody can have confidence in the change system ? the right hon . Gentleman be right to say that the business voice and employer ' voice be very important in this . when I write the new remit letter to Skills England , I ask it to take into account the view of employer , because it be very important that the skill system be train people in a way that employer want , and that meet the future demand of the labour market . I welcome the Secretary of State to his place , and to his new responsibility for skill . the Government recently reduce the amount of funding for level 7 apprenticeship , so can he tell the House what assessment his Department have make of the potential impact of this reduce funding on the number of nurse in training ? the apprenticeship and skill budget , like every other budget , demand choice . we be choose to prioritise the level that we need in the economy , and the area where the value be great . that do imply certain choice , and I be confident that the choice we have make will benefit the workforce as a whole , and future opportunity . employment : People with Health Conditions what step he be take to support people with health condition into work . what step he be take to support people with health condition into work . we be determined to open up opportunity in work for people with health condition . the Keep Britain Working review will be publish soon . in pathway to Work , we have 1 , 000 work adviser support this group , and we will devolve power , so that area can shape their own join - up local work , health and skill offer . I recently visit Pluss in Exeter , which support people live with physical disability and mental health condition back into employment . I meet some of the fantastically commit mentor , who provide tailor training and support , help hundred of people who have be long - term unemployed into meaningful job , boost their confidence and help they rebuild their life . do the Minister agree that under the last Tory Government , disability employment be shockingly neglect ? in contrast , this Government ' s recent announcement about Connect to work funding for Devon will help many more people back into the workplace . my hon . friend be absolutely right . the disability employment gap have be stick at around 30 percentage point ever since 2010 . what he refer to in his constituency sound like a great example of exactly the kind of resource we want to draw on in each area to make sure that disabled people have the opportunity in work that they be deny in the past . the Motability scheme provide a lifeline to people with disability , allow they to get to health appointment , study , maintain employment and so much more . cut to the scheme risk increase health need and increase unemployment , which be likely to cost much more than any short - term saving . do my right hon . friend agree that before any propose cut be implement , it be vital to carry out a proper impact assessment ? I can assure my hon . friend that there will be no change to the eligibility condition for the mobility component of the personal independence payment , or indeed other aspect of PIP , until the conclusion of the review , which I will be lead and co - produce with disabled people . that be expect to report in autumn next year . when severe mental illness strike , it can be devastating and totally debilitate , but the problem from the Department ' s point of view be that its symptom be invisible . there have be report of people fake mental illness in order to gain benefit . be the right hon . Gentleman satisfy that his Department have appropriate check in place ? yes , appropriate check be in place . as I have just mention , we be undertake a review of the PIP assessment , and we will need to look carefully , together with disabled people , at the way in which those decision and judgment be make . at a recent roundtable at the Eyres Monsell club for young people in my constituency , parent tell I that their young adult with learn difficulty , who volunteer for year , often with major supermarket , still struggle to secure work . what step be the Minister take to ensure that young people with high - function learning disability in long - term volunteering role can access clear pathway into pay employment ? the hon . Gentleman raise a very good point . he will have see , as many hon . member will have do , recent publicity about a particular case of this kind . at the moment , the proportion of people with severe learning disability who be in employment be tiny , so we be work with employer and some very good support internship programme in the hope of open up opportunity for work , and I hope we will see many more opportunity in the future . we appoint an expert panel early this year to look at how well to support people with neurodivergence into work , and the panel be come forward with some interesting proposal . I call the Chair of the Work and Pensions Committee . Health Equity North recently produce an analysis for the Select Committee that reveal that get just 5 % of people with disability or health condition into employment would yield cost saving of over £ 12 billion . what progress be be make with employer to enable sick and disabled people who want to work , and be able to do so , to get into employment ? my hon . friend raise an important point . I agree with she about the tremendous value , for the people who benefit and for the economy more widely , of open up opportunity in employment in the way that she describe . that be exactly what the Keep Britain Working review , lead by Sir Charlie Mayfield , be look at . I be look forward to Sir Charlie ' s report , and I be sure my hon . friend will find it interesting . I expect it to be publish quite soon . four thousand people in Somerset , many of they with disability , be be transition from employment and support allowance to universal credit . they be assure that they would not lose out , but one constituent wait three month with no income at all , until an intervention by I and the Department . Somerset be not warn about this transition , which be cause it huge difficulty with assess the implication for council tax benefit . what step will the Minister take to ensure that , just as people be tell , they will not lose out in the transition to universal credit ? I be not sure why the news of the transition do not reach Somerset ; the plan have be quite well publicise . we have put in place a careful enhance support journey for people , include a number of people on ESA , who might struggle with the transition . the hon . Gentleman raise a particular case , but if there be other case where there be difficulty , we be able to provide extra support to ensure that people can make the transition without hardship . carer ' s Allowance how many people be in receipt of carer ' s allowance . some 975 , 000 people be be pay carer ' s allowance in England and Wales , include some 900 people in the hon . member ' s constituency . we all know that carer give everything to care for their love one — physically , emotionally and financially . the Government receive the carer ' s allowance report three month ago , and under Lib Dem pressure have agree to publish it by the end of the year . do we know how many carer will be unfairly penalise in the six month between the Government receive the report and publish it ? I agree with the hon . member ' s characterisation of the degree of commitment and sacrifice be make by very large number of carer right across the country . as he have say , the report , which we commission from Liz Sayce , will be publish by the end of the year , together with the Government ' s response — and his question will be address in that response . young People : Employment , Education and Training what step he be take to support young people into employment , education or training . when we come to office , almost 1 million young people be not in education , employment or training . this Government be determined to offer young people proper opportunity . our youth guarantee will ensure that 18 to 21 - year - old be learn or earn , help to prevent they from become economically inactive almost before their career have even begin . as my hon . friend might have see , the Chancellor have announce that a job guarantee scheme will be a future part of this work . with one in six young scot not in education , employment or training , include hundred across my constituency , I welcome the Government ' s youth guarantee to give young people the training or job support they need . however , with stubborn youth unemployment , the Scottish Government ' s swinge cut to the college sector and employer warn that scottish apprenticeship be less favourable than those in England , how will the Secretary of State work to ensure that young people across the UK can benefit from this Government ' s ambition ? not for the first time , we have to point out that the Scottish Government have benefit from the big financial settlement since the introduction of devolution . it should not be too much to expect that at least a proportion of that should be spend on expand opportunity for young people in my hon . friend ' s constituency and throughout Scotland . Scotland have give so much to the world in creativity and innovation , and it be absolutely critical that the next generation of young scot get the chance to do the same . skill bootcamp in Cumbria have provide a great opportunity : 60 hour of training for young people in discipline as varied as code , scaffolding and project management . the cost to deliver those bootcamp across the whole of Cumbria be £ 2 . 7 million — chicken feed compare with the benefit that those young people and their future employer get out of they . what conversation have the Secretary of State have with his friend in the Treasury to ensure that that scheme be maintain and continue ? I be always have conversation with my friend in the Treasury . I agree with the hon . member that flexibility and some short course in the skill and training system be very important . not everything have to be do accord to the exact same formula and recipe , and short training course have a big part to play . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I welcome the Secretary of State to his new job and wish he luck in it — especially because , with every day that pass under this government , we see few people enjoy the chance to start a new job . unemployment have go up month after month . nearly 1 million young people be not in education , employment or training because of this Government ' s policy , job tax and business red tape ; even the Pensions Minister ' s former think - tank agree with I . People all around the country be out look for work — young people who want to get on in life and all those try to provide for their family — so can the Secretary of State tell we and they when he will get unemployment down ? the hon . Lady have a short memory . the Government in which she serve preside over the big slowdown in living standard in recent memory , and there be 358 , 000 more people in work now than there be at the start of the year . we will keep support young people into work and will change the system that we inherit , which have the wrong incentive and a lack of support . we be put both of those thing to right . no surprise there , Mr Speaker ; the Prime Minister can put new face on the Front Bench , but they still do not have the answer . the right hon . Gentleman criticise the previous Conservative Government , but we get unemployment down to a 40 - year low — a record labour could only dream of . the Government do not want to be hold to account . worse still , the right hon . Gentleman know that what he be do will not work , because the country be look down the barrel of more tax rise in next month ' s Budget , which will kill yet more job and opportunity . whether it be graduate look for their first job or old people be make redundant , people be cry out for a Government who be on their side . what will it take to get the Chancellor to understand that it be business that create job , not the Government , and do the right hon . Gentleman not agree that the more the Chancellor damage the economy , the big the welfare bill will get ? since we come into office , interest rate have be cut five time , help business and household . accord to Lloyds , business confidence be at a nine - year high , and there be to be much more private investment , include the £ 150 billion announce during the recent state visit . add to that the trade deal that the Conservatives could not secure — there be reason to be optimistic about the future of the economy and I hope the hon . Lady share they . child Poverty what step he be take with Cabinet colleague to reduce the number of child in poverty . my right hon . friend the Secretary of State co - chair the ministerial child poverty taskforce , which be lead our work across Government to develop the UK - wide child poverty strategy , which will be publish later this year . we be consider all available lever to give every child the good start in life , build on work that be already under way across all four nation . ahead of publication , the Government have already take action for the whole UK , include introduce a fair repayment rate and improve the adequacy of the standard allowance of universal credit from April 2026 . the Child Poverty Action Group estimate that because of this Government ' s policy — especially the two - child cap — more than 100 child be drag into poverty every day . that equate to almost 3 , 400 child between now and the Chancellor ' s autumn statement at the end of next month . here be a lever : as child poverty in Scotland be fall , why do the Minister not finally listen to reason by scrap this cruel policy ? why be he wait ? why do he not just act now ? this Government be act now . we have already announce that all child in family in England that be in receipt of universal credit will receive free school meal , lift 100 , 000 child out of poverty . we have cap the cost of school uniform , and introduce a new crisis and resilience fund . our Child Maintenance Service reform will lift 20 , 000 child out of poverty , and much more will be do when the child poverty taskforce report later this year . despite what those on the far right try to claim , the cost of living crisis remain the main issue that people face . one way to really help struggle family would be to lift the two - child benefit cap — that would lift hundred of thousand of child across the country out of poverty , include many in my constituency . be it not the case that the forthcoming Budget should announce that the two - child benefit cap will be scrap ? my hon . friend will understand that I be not go to make policy from the Dispatch Box . what I would say to he , as I have already say to the hon . member for Aberdeenshire North and Moray East ( Seamus Logan ) , be that all available lever be under consideration as part of our child poverty taskforce , which will report later this year . we will do what it take to bear down on child poverty . there be many lever that we can look at use to do so ; we have pull some already , and we will continue that work . I call the shadow Minister . every member in this Chamber share a commitment to lift people out of poverty , especially child ; we just have different view on how to go about it . child in workless household be nearly four time more likely to live in poverty than those in household where adult work . we know that work pay , yet we on the conservative Benches find ourselves surround by party that be just itch to scrap the two - child benefit cap , resort to yet more sticking plaster , like universal breakfast club , to reduce uncomfortable figure without put in the hard work to tackle their cause . do the Minister share my concern that lift the two - child benefit cap will increase worklessness , and can he guarantee that taxis will not go up in next month ' s Budget for adult who work hard and make careful decision about family size in order to pay for the £ 3 . 6 billion it will cost to lift that cap ? I be stunned to hear that the fight that the Opposition Front Benchers be choose to pick on this occasion be oppose universal free breakfast club , when we know that well - feed child have hungry mind . [ interruption . ] for those chirp from a sedentary position , that be exactly what the shadow Minister . what I find even more staggering be the lecture from an opposition who leave almost 3 million people in this country economically inactive and around 1 million young people out of work . they drag 900 , 000 child into poverty , when the last Labour Government lift 600 , 000 out . it be the last Labour Government who we will be take lesson from , not the last Tory one . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I note that last year the new Secretary of State for Work and Pensions say that it be open to debate as to whether the two - child limit be harmful . I note also that this policy have be the most impactful in drive child — more than 730 , 000 of they — into poverty . will the Minister acknowledge that the two - child limit be harmful and work with Treasury colleague to overturn it ? I be happy to acknowledge the finding of the Child Poverty Action Group , which I think have put forward the statistic that the hon . Gentleman set out . I remind he and all member of this House that this be not the only lever available to we and that all lever be under active consideration . I also remind he , as I have remind other colleague , of the step that this Government have already take , include the roll - out of free school meal to all family in receipt of universal credit , which alone will lift 100 , 000 child out of poverty . Workforce Skills what step he be take to ensure that skill provision meet the need of employer . the skill White Paper , which we publish last week , will create more opportunity . as I say in response to an early question , my remit letter to Skills England make clear the importance of work closely with employer . employer have tell we that they want more flexibility in the apprenticeship levy , so the growth and skill offer be deliver that , with more foundation course and short course launch next year . at a recent roundtable meeting in my Thornbury and Yate constituency , small business tell I about the particular challenge they face in deliver apprenticeship . give that the Secretary of State ' s Department be now responsible for this important policy area , what be he do to reform apprenticeship to make they easy for small and medium - sized enterprise to deliver , and what support will he provide so that more can do so ? we want apprenticeship to be available to employer of all size . we have reduce the length of time an apprenticeship need to take , and I think we can go far with short course flexibility , which should be particularly helpful to small and medium - sized employer . I recently visit Premier Forest Products in Newport to learn more about the vocational training and employment opportunity that the business be offer to care - experienced young school leaver in Newport , with some wonderful success story . will the Department look at the model that company be create and can the Secretary of State say more about how the Government be work with business to make sure that such opportunity be more accessible for people from all background , include those who be care - experienced ? I be happy to look at the experience of that particular employer . I enjoy a recent visit to a different part of south Wales to open an opportunity hub , which be aim precisely at get more young people into work , particularly those who have be out of the labour market through long - term sickness issue . we want to support Wales in do that , and we have allocate an extra £ 10 million to this work over the come year . indexation of Pension Rights if he will take legislative step to ensure that company who previously provide indexation of pension right accrue before April 1997 but have since lapse , reintroduce indexation from April 2026 . what step he be take to help tackle the potential impact of the lack of indexation on pre - 1997 pensionable service in define benefit pension scheme on people affect . I obviously recognise the challenge face those without inflation protection , particularly after the cost of living pressure of recent year , and I think that recognition be share by member on both side of the House . I meet a cross - party group of MPs early this year to discuss exactly this issue . reform in the Pension Schemes Bill give trustee more flexibility to share surplus in their DB pension scheme with employer , and to negotiate for member to benefit from any such sharing of surplus . that could include discretionary increase to address the issue raise by my hon . friend the Member for Llanelli ( Dame Nia Griffith ) . as a result of the effort of pensioner association , we know that there have be unintended consequence of the Pensions Act 1995 , which make it legal to stop payment of indexation to the pre - 1997 pensioner of successful multinational such as 3 M and Hewlett Packard Enterprise , who , have be recruit with the promise of index - link pension , be now suffer hardship . their pension have already be freeze for at least 15 year , despite healthy fund and trustee ' plea . what will the Minister do to stop this dishonourable practice , so that these company deliver the financial security that they promise ? I absolutely recognise the issue that my hon . friend have raise : any of we in that situation would want those pension increase to continue . she be aware of the legal background , but I should point out that scheme rule govern when inflation - link increase can be pay . they be not change retrospectively , but the Pensions Regulator have spell out that trustee should consider those who be not receive inflation - link increase when make their decision , and should also consider the history of make such award — particularly in some of the example that my hon . friend have give . as I have say , I think that the provision in the Pension Scheme Bill give trustee more power to argue for those increase . I have be contact by a constituent who , along with her husband , work for Hewlett Packard . they accrue their pension before 1997 , and now , along with about 50 , 000 member of the Pre - 97 Alliance , they be face real financial hardship . in 10 year ' time , their pension will be pretty much worthless . will the Minister not consider legislate to ensure that these people be not leave in poverty , have be promise proper pension when they start work for the company concern ? the hon . Lady have mention a specific company , although a small number of other be in the same position . I be sure that not only the people run that company but the trustee will have hear the powerful case make by member on both side of the House . these decision must be make in line with the scheme rule , but no one want saver to see the value of their pension fall over time , and I hope that employer will take the case be make in the Chamber seriously . child poverty : Cornwall what assessment he have make of trend in the level of child poverty in Cornwall . it be unacceptable that 23 % of child in Cornwall be live in relative poverty . we will set out measure to tackle its structural and root cause in our child poverty strategy later in the year . child poverty can not be tackle if child have nowhere safe to live . one of the most shameful legacy of the last Tory Government be Cornwall be leave with more than 700 child live in temporary accommodation , while only 1 . 4 % of home be now affordable to family receive the local housing allowance . what assessment have the Minister make of the extent to which that shortfall in affordable home be drive child poverty rate even higher , and what urgent step will he take to reverse it ? the hon . Gentleman be right to highlight the appalling living standard and condition in which some child — and , indeed , some member of the broad population — find themselves live . my advice to any Liberal Democrat Member would of course be to stop block the home that we so desperately need . let I also remind the hon . Gentleman that this Government have invest £ 39 billion in the delivery of social and affordable home , because , unlike the Liberal Democrats , the Labour party be determined to tackle the housing crisis and to " build , baby , build " . rise — order . this be a cornish question , and I be call Perran Moon , so I ask other please not to stand . Meur ra , Mr Speaker . I represent the most deprived constituency in Cornwall , which be itself one of the most deprived area in northern Europe . child poverty shoot up under the Conservatives . today our local further education college — Cornwall college , rate " outstanding " by Ofsted — be turn away young learner in construction and engineering because of a lack of space . the college have a solution allow it to expand , but will the Secretary of State meet I to discuss the issue and help our amazing young people to break this cycle of deprivation ? I be sorry to hear of the situation that my hon . friend have outline . if the Secretary of State be unable to meet he , I would be more than happy to do so . Youth Guarantee Trailblazer Scheme what recent progress he have make on establish the youth guarantee trailblazer scheme . the trailblazer be up and run and have be deliver support for young people since early this year . that include , for example , mental health support and flexible work experience session . we have extend the programme for a further year , bring the total funding to £ 90 million . the insight from those trailblazer will inform the national roll - out of our youth guarantee . do my right hon . friend agree that the action of this Government , in support young people , be in stark contrast to the situation in Scotland , where we have have 18 year of SNP neglect , with the college sector suffer a 20 % cut over the past five year ? do he also agree that , as the energy sector in Scotland transition to green form of energy production , the job and skill need to bolster that industry could be teach at those college , and that we risk have a double whammy of young people not be able to take on these important job , while lecturer be pay off and our college be in dire financial strait ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to draw attention to the importance of the energy transition . as I say , the Scottish Government be receive the large spending review settlement in real term since devolution be establish . we know that young people in Scotland have the talent , but be their government back they by give they the opportunity ? we believe that a proportion of those fund should be devoted to that . I be pleased to say that , for example , BAE Systems will be a major beneficiary of the £ 10 billion deal to build Type 26 frigate for Norway — a critical investment in european security , and one that I hope the Scottish Government have get around to support . I welcome the Secretary of State to his place and wish he well in his new role . I be quite confident that he will give we all the answer we wish to have . Northern Ireland continue to have a high proportion of young people not in employment , education or training — some 11 % to 13 % — compare with the UK average , so what discussion have he have with the relevant Minister in Northern Ireland to ensure that the necessary support and opportunity be provide to young people in Northern Ireland ? there should be no part of the United Kingdom in which we do not give young people the maximum opportunity . I have a good work relationship with the Northern Ireland Executive in my previous post , and I hope to have a good work relationship with they in this post , with the share agenda of give our young people the well possible chance in life . Benefit Sanctions : Neurodiverse Claimants what step his Department be take to ensure that benefit sanction be proportionate when consider neurodiverse claimant . work coach be require to tailor work - relate requirement to claimant ' capability and circumstance , and they can pause they if that be appropriate . my constituent Ross have neurodiversitie and be in employment , work at a garden centre , but his income be supplement by universal credit . after inadvertently miss a telephone appointment with a job coach , he be sanction , lose out on two month - worth of rent , and he risk be make homeless and lose his job if his parent have not be there to step in . can the Minister assure folk such as Ross that they will be power up by our benefit system , not punish when they make innocent mistake ? we certainly do want the system to support people such as Ross . if work - relate requirement be miss , the reason for that should be ask for , with seven day allow for an answer . there should also be a pre - referral check before a sanction referral take place . if the hon . Gentleman would like to send I the detail of what happen in that particular case , I will happily look into it . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . I be very conscious of the responsibility of the Department , which touch million of life in this country every month . we have join up skill and employment support in the Department to bring the skill system close to the labour market , and , as part of our youth guarantee , we have announce that it will include a backstop job guarantee . together with that and connect to work , we be both tackle the incentive in the system and provide critical support , because my priority be to have a welfare state that look after people when time be tough , but also provide a platform of opportunity to help get they out of welfare and into work . at the Conservative party conference , the shadow Chief Secretary to the Treasury call for the state pension to be mean - test . this have cause deep concern to pensioner in Monmouthshire who have work hard all their life and build up modest saving . under the conservative party ' s plan , they would risk lose their state pension . will the Secretary of State confirm that , under this Labour Government , the state pension will remain available to all ? I be happy to say that what my hon . Friend say about means - testing be not the Government ' s policy , but can the Conservatives confirm whether it be theirs ? the shadow Chief Secretary let the cat out of the bag . can she confirm that this be not her policy , or be it that her leader still stick to the position she set out early this year when she say : " we be go to look at means - testing " ? be they still look at it , or be they not ? the good thing be that the Government be only responsible for their own problem . I call the shadow Secretary of the State . indeed , question be to be answer by the Government on this occasion . the right hon . Gentleman have an important and not always easy job . I be sure that we all remember the fiasco before the summer when the Government try to make welfare saving and end up legislate for welfare spending . since then , the Prime Minister have say that there be a " clear moral case " for welfare cut , and the Chancellor have say that she " can ' t leave welfare untouched " . do the Secretary of State agree ? I notice that the hon . Lady do not want to clarify the position on means - test the state pension . welfare reform be happen all the time . we pass important change to the universal credit system that be vote through by the House and , as I say , we be put in place important employment support to help not only long - term sick and disabled people but young people into work through many of the policy that I have talk about today . I can not help but notice that the Secretary of State continue to attempt to deflect from his job of answer the question . the fact be , we just hear that he will not commit to make the welfare saving that his Prime Minister and his Chancellor have say they need to make . I think the Prime Minister be mean to be in charge . get people off welfare and into work not only save money ; it be morally wrong to condemn people to a life on benefit . without welfare reform , this country be stick on Labour ' s broken record of high taxis and low growth . we have even offer to help the Secretary of State , so why will he not commit to make welfare saving ? we inherit a situation that have 3 million people inactive and almost 1 million people not in employment , education or training . we be put in place critical employment support to help long - term sick and disabled people into work , we have change the incentive through legislation on the universal credit system , and we be increase the number of face - to - face check in the system , which fall on the Conservatives ' watch . what do people think it fall by ? do we think it fall by 10 % ? do we think it fall by 30 % ? no , it fall by 90 % under the system over which the hon . Lady ' s Government preside . many other hon . member have today outline the prove track record of access to work in enable disabled constituent to access employment , in addition to the challenge pose by the current shortfall in funding . some £ 1 billion - worth of additional employment support funding have be announce this year . can the Minister reassure the House that access to work remain one of the potential avenue for that funding ? demand for Access to Work have rise sharply . I mention early that spending go up by 17 % over the past year , but I do not think access to work can replace a well - design support programme . that be what we be determined to put in place , and the Department ' s new , independent disability advisory panel will help we work out the good approach to employment support . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the Government have make a promise that those transfer from legacy benefit to universal credit will find themselves no worse off , yet Liberal Democrat colleague from all over the country be find that people be bad off . will the Minister share evidence of how the Government be support the most vulnerable where they find themselves bad off ? transitional protection be available for people make the transition across , and I speak early about the support be provide through the enhanced support journey to people for whom the transition may be particularly difficult . I be think , for example , about some people on employment and support allowance . if the hon . Member be worried about particular case and would like to send I the detail , I be very happy to look at they . for too long , too many people in the north - east have be leave behind due to stubbornly high unemployment , but the economic inactivity trailblazer offer an opportunity to tackle the often complex reason that sit behind that . can the Secretary of State set out how this will work alongside exist programme such as the new deal for north - east worker to support people into fulfil productive employment ? People should not be deny the opportunity to work , which be why the Department have back the economic inactivity trailblazer in the north - east with £ 10 million this year and a furth £ 10 million next year . it be test new way to help people overcome barrier to work . we be determined to turn around the situation that we inherit from the conservative party , and we be work closely with the excellent Mayor of the North East to bring these policy together . only 30 % of people with autism be in work , compare with nearly 55 % of disabled people . Charlie , who be celebrate his 31st birthday on Saturday , live in Baltonsborough with his parent , but like many young adult with autism , he have struggle to find employment . his mother , Jenny , tell I yesterday that Charlie be a classic example of waste talent , so what step be the Minister take to ensure that adult with autism and other special educational need can find fulfilling and secure employment ? the hon . member raise an important point , and I agree about the importance of not waste talent in the future . that be the reason for the reform we be introduce . early this year we set up an expert panel to advise we on how good to support people with neurodivergence into employment , build on the work of Sir Robert Buckland and his review of autism employment in the last Parliament . we have now receive that advice from the expert panel and be consider how to take that work forward . I still have parent in my constituency come to I because they be not get the money their child need . one constituent report her ex repeatedly self - declare employment until the Child Maintenance Service catch up with they , switch on to benefit for a few month , drop to £ 7 a week and then return to self - employment to restart that cycle . online forum openly trade tip about how to avoid child maintenance . what will the Minister do to close these loophole and ensure that every child get the support they need ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . the Government plan to consult on change to the calculation that will automatically capture more income type within that calculation . where parent wilfully avoid their financial obligation , the CMS financial investigation unit do have the power to act and will investigate . child maintenance be key to keep child out of poverty , and we will use these power wherever necessary . the 25 - year - old son of one of my constituent unfortunately lose his leg when it be amputate above the knee after a motorcycle accident , but he be award personal independence payment and a specially adapt car , and he have be able to rebuild his life . however , in August he be tell that the PIP and the adapt car would be withdraw from he . sadly , he be clearly not go to get any well . how can we be in a situation where people whose condition be permanent be have their support withdraw ? I would be very happy to look into the particular case the hon . member raise . of course , an appeal process be available , so I hope that her constituent have submit an appeal . if she let I have the detail , I will gladly have a look at the case . early this month I visit the Spear programme in north Kensington , which be do fantastic work in support young people back into employment through programme that the DWP datum lab have find to have a significant impact . could the Secretary of State outline how evidence produce by unit such as the data lab will help guide the trailblazer funding to get young people back into work ? the Spear programme be one of the first organisation to go through an evaluation with the datum lab a few year ago . I be pleased to tell my hon . friend that the finding from that be really positive , and I be delighted that his constituency be locate in one of the youth guarantee trailblazer area . as we have reiterate several time , it be crucial that we do everything we can to help young people into work and address the issue , which we inherit , of people not in employment , education or training . many young care leaver live in supported housing want to increase their hour at work but find themselves catch in the benefit trap . YMCA Eastleigh tell I that this be impact care leaver in my constituency . what recent discussion have the Minister have with Cabinet colleague on reform to the tax and benefit system to make work pay for young care leaver ? there be a problem in the interaction between housing benefit , which provide housing support for people in support accommodation , and housing support in the universal credit system . that interaction do cause difficulty , and I think that be what the hon . Lady be refer to . we be look at that at the moment . we be talk to other part of government and work with people such as YMCA and Centrepoint to look at the problem and what we can do to fix it . many of my constituent be experience delay in migrating to universal credit , due to year of Tory mismanagement of our welfare system . this be a stressful time for claimant and a very busy time for the Department . will my right hon . friend outline what step the Department be take to ensure it be fully resource , so that delay be reduce and claim be process ? the Department be prioritise ensure that there be adequate staffing resource available to support claimant and deliver migration smoothly and on time . I be concerned to hear what my hon . Friend say about the experience of his constituent in Coatbridge and Bellshill . I will look into this issue far on his behalf and report back to he . the Trussell Trust recently report that three in 10 people who be refer to food bank in 2024 be in work household and that the majority , 72 % , be on universal credit . what more can the Government do to ensure that work pay and we can take low - pay worker out of poverty ? I recently speak at an event in Parliament host by that organisation . I be pleased to say that its report say there have be a small drop in the use of food bank over the past year . we have put the household support fund , now the crisis and resilience fund , on a proper basis for the next three year to support those family in the most desperate need . give sick and disabled people agency and draw on live experience set the only path to get policy right , so that they can access work appointment and get out of their home , avoid worklessness , health decline and isolation , with their mobility support need recognise through PIP . far to the Minister ' s previous answer , will he ensure that any policy reform to PIP mobility payment be fully co - produce with sick and disabled people ? I can reassure my hon . friend that the review of the PIP assessment , include the mobility element of that benefit , will be undertake fully in co - production with disabled people and disabled people ' s organisation . I will be set out very shortly how the review I be go to be lead will be undertake . business be cry out that the Employment Rights Bill will cost job . now , the Tony Blair Institute for Global Change , the spiritual home of the Secretary of State — [ Laughter . ] — say it will cripple the job market , especially for young people . it be not a laugh matter . what be the Secretary of State ' s view ? will the Employment Rights Bill help his Department to increase employment , or will it cost even more job ? it should be no surprise that a Labour party support well right at work for people . history be replete with warning that well employment right would result in few job . those be the warning the conservative party give when we introduce the national minimum wage many , many year ago . of course , it be important that when legislate on these issue we do it closely in consultation with employer . that be precisely what we intend to do . some 47 % of child in my constituency live in poverty . the Minister mention that he will consider all lever . do that include speak with the Treasury to look at a wealth tax to bring in much - need money to the Treasury to remove the two - child cap ? as we have discuss a number of time , of course we want to reduce child poverty . my hon . friend will not be surprised to hear that , when it come to tax , that be a matter for the Chancellor and not for I . I welcome the Secretary of State to his place and wish he well . last week , I attend a drop - in for the Women against State Pension Inequality Campaign where I be inform that there be currently 4 , 320 woman in Dewsbury and Batley affect by the WASPI scandal . that number be previously high , but many of the woman have already pass away without justice . on 27 July I write to the former Secretary of State regard her support for the WASPI campaign after be contact by more than 40 of my constituent , but I have yet to receive a response . with the Government still refuse to engage in civil mediation to deliver justice to the WASPI woman , will the new Secretary of State reconsider meet campaigner to find a just way forward ? the previous Minister for Pensions meet representative of the WASPI campaign in order to hear directly from they about their experience . she be the first Minister to do so in eight year . I will look into the detail of the letter the hon . gentleman mention . I welcome the Secretary of State to his office and thank the Under - Secretary of State for Work and Pensions , my hon . friend the Member for Stretford and Urmston ( Andrew Western ) , for a recent visit to the DWP debt and fraud centre in my constituency . there be 95 job at the centre do tremendous work across the UK , prove that civil service job dispersal do work . be this not a template for other Departments and an example to the SNP Government in Scotland , who have disperse no job , no power and no fund from Edinburgh ? I endorse everything my hon . friend have say . I have a fantastic visit to the very beautiful constituency that he be fortunate enough to represent , where I see exactly what can happen through our place for growth initiative , which look to relocate job out of London and into place such as Stornoway . I have meet many pensionable - age constituent , most of whom live on the Duck estate , who have lose their entitlement to pension credit because of as little as 50p . do the Minister agree that pension credit , the employment and support allowance and PIP assistance could all do with more common sense and a little less of a " computer say no " mentality ? I thank the hon . Lady for her question . in general , lot of life could do with less " computer say no " , so on that basis we will agree . on the specific of the question she raise about pension credit , the nature of the system be obviously that it provide a guarantee level of income ; it be not set out an entitlement like universal credit , so there do have to be a limit somewhere , and I be afraid that that do mean that some people will always be on one side of it . what we do not want to see in a system be too many thing in that winner - take - all perspective — I take the point she raise . I recently visit Drake Hall woman ' s prison in my constituency of Stafford , Eccleshall and the village , which have the brilliant initiative of a Halfords training centre to support people into employment once they leave the prison estate . it support people all over the country , not just in my constituency . can the Secretary of State tell I what conversation be happen with the Ministry of Justice about support or expand scheme like that ? that sound like an excellent initiative . of course , if we be to rehabilitate prisoner , it be important that they get training and the chance to get into constructive employment after their sentence . I be sure that that apply not just to the prison in my hon . friend ' s constituency but throughout the country . Alan Marnes be a constituent of mine in Southoe who have staunchly campaign since 2002 on the issue of the lack of indexation for pre - 1997 pension right , have be one of 140 , 000 people who lose their occupational pension . I write to the Secretary of State more than two month ago ask whether the newly revive Pensions Commission will address the issue of fail pension fund and I have still not receive a response . will the Secretary of State agree to meet I and Alan to provide some much - need clarity on such a long - stand issue ? I be not absolutely clear whether the particular case that the hon . Gentleman be raise relate to people within the Pension Protection Fund and the financial assistance scheme or to a pre - 1997 indexation within a solvent pension scheme , but if he write to I with the detail I will absolutely make sure that I come back to he . one in three child in my constituency be grow up in poverty . with the Budget approach , what discussion have the Secretary of State have with the Chancellor of the Exchequer about scrap the two - child limit — a policy widely recognise as one of the big driver of child poverty in Britain today ? we have already take action to reduce child poverty , by extend free school meal to all family on universal credit , and we will of course explore other avenue . we want to reduce child poverty — in stark contrast to the record of the Conservatives . when my constituent move into new social housing , they find it strip of perfectly good white good , curtain , carpet and so on . what can the Government do to address this ? it be drive my constituent far into poverty and benefit dependency . it be also environmentally destructive . surely there be a way through this issue , so can I call on the Minister to work with other across Government to address it ? the right hon . Gentleman raise an important issue . it might be well raise at question to the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government , but as he ask I to pick this up with Ministers across Departments , I be happy to do so . I can tell he that the crisis and resilience fund — formerly the household support fund — be in place to support people set up in their new home , as be grant that be available from housing association directly . [ Official Report , 3 November 2025 ; Vol . 774 , c . 6wc . ] ( Correction ) North Sea Oil and Gas Industry ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero if he will make a statement on the future of the North Sea oil and gas industry . the North sea will be at the heart of Britain ' s energy future . for decade its worker , business and community have help to power our country and our world , and they will do so for decade to come . the oil and gas industry have lose around a third of its entire workforce in the last decade as oil and gas production have decline . a plan be now need . that be why in March we consult on a framework for build a world - lead offshore clean energy industry in the North sea , alongside manage exist oil and gas field for their lifespan . we will respond to that consultation in the come week . alongside that , we publish our clean energy job plan , which set out that over 400 , 000 more good job be to be create across the UK , include 40 , 000 in Scotland , by the end of the decade . that be facilitate thank to record investment in clean energy as well as over £ 50 billion of private investment since July 2024 thank to the certainty our plan have create . turn to today ' s news , colleague will be aware that Petrofac Ltd have for some time be work on a restructure relate to its global portfolio . the restructuring plan fail , follow the unexpected termination of a contract by TenneT — a dutch transmission company . at 7 am today , hold company Petrofac Ltd announce that it will be enter administration . while that be obviously disappointing for the company , it be the product of long - stand issue with its global business . contrary to misleading report today , the UK arm of Petrofac have not enter administration and be continue to operate as normal — as an in - demand business with a highly skilled workforce and many successful contract . indeed , only last month Petrofac ' s UK arm extend two significant contract , demonstrate that the business have a viable future . today ' s announcement cover only the top - level hold company Petrofac Ltd , which have no employee . the Petrofac group have face long - stand challenge , include a high - profile £ 77 million financial penalty impose in 2021 follow a Serious Fraud Office investigation into bribery . we understand that there be reason to be optimistic about a commercial resolution that include the UK arm . the Government have be , and will remain , in close contact with the company . I repeat this to the House : the UK business have not enter administration . it be successful and grow , and it will continue to operate as normal . another week and yet another hammer blow to our North sea oil and gas industry , another gut punch to energy worker and another blow to our energy security . whatever the Minister say today , the blame lie squarely with this Labour Government . [ interruption . ] they do not like to hear it , but it be true . today , the energy giant Petrofac have enter administration , cast doubt over the future of its 2 , 000 employee in Scotland — as its global headquarters be in Aberdeen — and the countless more who be support indirectly through the supply chain . as the Minister say , this company have have issue for many year , but the hostile environment in the UK continental shelf create by the Government have make operate here nigh on impossible for far too many company . our offshore energy industry have see thousand of redundancy since the 2024 general election . Harbour Energy complete a new round of redundancy just last month and , with depress regularity , we hear of more job loss in the North sea . whether at Harbour Energy , Apache , Hunting or Petrofac , each job lose mean uncertainty for a family , a mortgage jeopardise , investment flee our community and our world - class supply chain and skilled workforce push towards extinction . how many more will it take for the Secretary of State to change course ? these be political choice . this be a manufactured decline . as a direct result of the hostile trading environment , the " closed for business " sign be hang over the UK continental shelf . from the energy profit levy extension increase to the ban on new licence and the refusal to defend the Government ' s decision on Rosebank and Jackdaw , the odd be stack against the North sea industry , damage the business environment , threaten investment , harm our economy and undermine our energy security . these be political choice that have result in job loss . what step be be take to support Petrofac ' s HQ employee in Aberdeen ? how many more job have to be lose across the industry for the Government to change course ? when will the thousand of job promise through GB Energy for Aberdeen and around the United Kingdom materialise ? will the Minister personally act and ask his boss — the Secretary of State for Energy — to change course , or be he content to sacrifice Aberdeen , the north - east and our energy industry on this vainglorious campaign to destroy our fossil fuel industry ? on Petrofac , the hon . Gentleman should be careful with his tone . to come here and try to undermine effort to find a buyer for the UK arm and to talk down a business , which , as I just outline , be a successful and grow business in the North sea , be deeply irresponsible . there have be long - stand issue at the company ; he of all people should be well aware of that , give his previous role as a Minister in the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero . all of we across the House have a responsibility to support the company at the moment , not to undermine it , and to send a positive message to those worker , the supplier and the customer that the UK arm be continue to operate as normal . all the sign be that there be a viable long - term future for the company , but that will not happen if we have comment like those make by the hon . Gentleman undermine that business . on the wide question of the North sea , the hon . Gentleman should know as well as anyone that we lose over a third of the job in the North sea during the conservative party ' s time in government . he want to pretend that the transition arrive in July 2024 , but he be in government when those job be go , and the Conservatives fail time and again to come up with any credible plan for manage the future of the North sea . we will not do that . we will come up with a plan . that be why we be build the industry of the future on hydrogen , on carbon capture , on offshore wind and on the supply chain — the very investment that he and Conservative Members turn their back against time and again . they be turn their back on the future of the energy story in the North sea as they be more interested in exploit problem than solve they . time and again , they have learn no lesson from their time in government , when they leave these worker without a credible plan . we will not do the same again . will my hon . friend outline to the House how the Government be deliver the clean energy job plan , which will see 40 , 000 new job in the clean energy industry in Scotland by 2030 ? I be sure that move will be welcome around the Chamber . will he advise we what support will be give to that plan by the Scottish Government ? my hon . friend make an important point about build up the industry of the future . I have say on a number of occasion that we should rightly be proud of six decade of oil and gas in the north - east of Scotland , and we should be proud of the work that that workforce have achieve , but we should also recognise that we have be in transition for a long time . build up the job of the future in carbon capture , hydrogen , offshore wind and supply chain be how we ensure a long - term , viable , sustainable future in the north - east — alongside oil and gas for many decade to come . the particular work that the Scottish Government need to do in this space be about improve the skill offer so that more of Scotland ' s young people can take up the 40 , 000 job we will create over the come year . that be a huge opportunity for Scotland ' s young people , but only if we improve Scotland ' s education system . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . this be worry news . Petrofac be one of the North sea ' s large offshore contractor , but it be enter administration today after year of financial difficulty . while I can not share the desire of the hon . member for West Aberdeenshire and Kincardine ( Andrew Bowie ) to ditch the Climate Change Act 2008 , I do share his concern for those 2 , 000 job in Scotland and those worker who face uncertainty about their future , so the Secretary of State must act swiftly to find a sustainable path forward , hopefully secure a buyer and safeguard those skilled job . this underline why the Liberal Democrats have call for an independent just transition commission , put oil and gas worker and local community front and centre . it be good to see the much - await publication of the Government ' s clean energy job plan last week . however , we know that job creation be not happen fast enough to keep up with job loss in the North sea , so can the Secretary of State and the Minister confirm what will be do to fill that gap in the meantime — in the short term — and to deliver a genuinely just transition that keep those skilled worker power Britain ' s clean energy future ? first , can I just say what a contrast it be when someone rightly respond to this concern issue in a serious way and do not talk down the industry ? this be where the House should stand tall and recognise that that company be do good work and that there be 2 , 000 worker out in the North sea right now carry out their duty . we want to ensure that there be a viable future for the company , and we be do everything that we can in that space . all the sign be that it be a grow , successful business , and we should recognise that and talk it up , not talk it down , as the conservative party seem hellbent on do . on the hon . Lady ' s wide point , she be right to say that the future of clean energy involve ten of thousand of job across Scotland and hundred of thousand across the UK , but that we need to ramp those job up as quickly as possible and ensure that people can achieve those job . we be do what we can around look at the skill framework , but we also ensure that , through the investment we be make through great British Energy , those job come forward much fast and that people be support to move from job in oil and gas into job that have a real correlation in skill . we be pick this work up after the failure of the previous Government to have any plan . we be move as fast as we can , and we will see more on that North sea plan in the come week . I have to say that this be a very underpowered urgent question . it be similar to a two - stroke engine attach to a rowing boat — [ interruption . ] order . when I decide on an urgent question , I do not need to be question about how urgent it be , or whether it be like a two - stroke engine or a 50 cc — actually , some of we think it might be a three litre . I be , of course , refer to the shadow Minister , the hon . member for West Aberdeenshire and Kincardine ( Andrew Bowie ) , who know full well that he have miss the story here . Petrofac go into administration because the Dutch Government cut a contract for offshore wind farm development . I dare say that that raise concern about the viability for finance and the supply chain for the offshore wind farm industry , but as the Minister have point out , and as the shadow Minister well know , Petrofac be successful in the UK . it have 2 , 000 job in the UK and it have contract in the UK , so we need less scaremongere from this underpowered opposition and more assurance from the Minister that he will look after those job . I will just reflect on something that my hon . Friend say . this be a global company , and it have not have its trouble to seek for some time . it be subject to an investigation back in 2017 , and it have go through a number of restructuring route since then . ultimately , that process come to an end when it lose a significant contract from TenneT , one of the dutch transmission operator . this be a company that have face global headwind for some time , but I repeat to the House that the UK business have a viable long - term future . it be already grow , it be successful , and we have a responsibility across this House to talk up british business and the worker in those job , not to talk they down . may I convey in the strong possible term to the junior Minister the anger and anxiety that be feel by my constituent in Aberdeen ? right now they be provide energy security to each and every one of we on these isle , as well as revenue to his Treasury , yet their only reward , and the only certainty they seem to have on this Government ' s watch , be that of loom job loss . may I ask — [ interruption . ] he shake his head . may I ask he to come to Aberdeen and explain to my constituent when he be go to listen to the trade union , the academic , the worker and the industry and protect that industry , not only for our energy security but for Scotland ' s economy ? I be in Aberdeen regularly and do meet constituent of the right hon . member who work in renewable , carbon capture and hydrogen as well as in oil and gas . it be his constituent who will benefit from the investment that great British Energy will make , for example , which he fail to vote for , and who tell I that after a long period of have no credible plan — [ interruption . ] he can shout I down all he want ; he ask a question — order . I bring the right hon . member for Aberdeen South ( Stephen Flynn ) in early because I think that be right for his constituent and because he have apply for an UQ , but I do expect a little respect , even if he do not like the answer . the right hon . Member ask a serious question , and I be try to give he an answer , if he would but listen for a few moment . we take the issue of job loss seriously — of course we do — but we have to recognise that over 70 , 000 job have be lose over the past 10 year because there have not be a credible plan on the future of the North sea . we be go to deliver that alongside new job in the energy future . I also say to the right hon . member that I be somewhat confused what the SNP ' s policy be on this because , as far as I understand it , it be exactly the same as this Government ' s policy , which be to look at the licensing position . if he be tell we now that the SNP ' s position have change , that be news to I and , I suspect , to the House , but of course , the SNP have not publish the draft energy strategy , which have be in draft form for two year , so it be hard for anyone to know . what step be the Minister take to ensure that the UK arm of the company , which be an in - demand business with a highly skilled workforce and many successful contract , have a long - term future in the UK , particularly in the context of our clean energy job plan announce last week and , as my hon . friend the Member for Na h - Eileanan an Iar ( Torcuil Crichton ) point out , some of the risk around the development of offshore wind in Holland ? we have obviously be liaise with the company over quite a long period of time on the restructuring ; indeed , the previous Government do as well . we have be look at this issue and will continue to work very closely with the company to ensure that there be a viable long - term future for the UK part . but it be an in - demand business and , as I say just last month , it expand some of its contract , which show that it be successful . of course , it have a highly skilled workforce work in a huge range of job right across oil and gas . the wide question about investment into renewable be also one that we should take seriously . we have a huge opportunity in the United Kingdom to capitalise on the economic opportunity that come from offshore and onshore wind , hydrogen and carbon capture , but that require consistency and a view that the UK be a safe place to invest — thing that be threaten by the Conservatives . anyone who have meet business in Aberdeen will know that they rely on the oil and gas sector . this Labour Government ' s " net zero at all cost " policy be a disaster for high - quality skill and job in the north - east and across Scotland . what urgent action will the Government take to restore confidence and stability in the energy sector ? I reject the hon . member ' s assertion that this Government be somehow follow a course without look at the evidence . clearly , oil and gas be a crucial part of our energy mix and will be for decade to come — we have be clear on that — but so too be build up what come next . that mean invest in the supply chain that be so often not part of the building of infrastructure that we have in our water . we tow thing in and switch they on , but have none of the job that go with they . we be determined to change that , but that come with have a credible industrial strategy and a long - term plan for the future of the North sea , which we do not have under 14 year of the previous Government . incredibly , it be now eight month since the Prime Minister announce £ 200 million from the National Wealth Fund for the industrial future of Grangemouth . I have have meeting with numerous company that have proposal and be , frankly , impatient to get start . when will this money be spend , and when will those job come to my town ? all there be to show for it so far be the bone of an unjust transition and industrial devastation . we have be look at a number of proposal . I meet the five company that be the frontrunner for National Wealth Fund investment , along with the Scottish Government Energy Minister . a number of proposition be to be take forward , and I hope we will have an announcement to make in due course . of course , we have be try not to just spend £ 200 million on the first thing that come along but to find the genuinely long - term , viable industrial opportunity that deliver job at Grangemouth , not just for a year or two but long into the future . the hon . Gentleman be right that for far too long the site have be the victim of a lack of planning , and it be an example of a just transition do wrongly . we want to make that different by have a serious plan for long - term job on the site . the NWF have bring company to the table , and we will deliver an announcement on that in due course . I accept the Minister ' s comment about Petrofac , but it be a very worrying day not just for the 2 , 000 worker whose job be at stake but for the entire oil economy in north - east Scotland . two thing be miss that we desperately need in Scotland : one be investment in the job and skill that we will need for the renewable industry the Minister talk about , and the other be the reform of the taxation system and the windfall tax to ensure that it be consistent for the North sea area . what be the Government go to do about those thing ? the hon . Lady be of course right that any announcement like this be worry not only for those directly involved but for the wide community . I entirely recognise that point . she be right that it be critical to invest in the job of the future . we have work with the Scottish Government — because we do work with they — to deliver joint funding for transition support so that worker can get the direct skill support they need to move from an oil and gas job into a renewable job . that be really important , but we also need to see much more upskilling of the next generation , who can take advantage of the job we will create in the clean energy of the future . on the question of taxation , I be afraid that be a matter for the Chancellor . my constituency include small and medium - sized enterprise and large business that work in renewable , oil and gas , solar , onshore wind and offshore wind . do the Minister agree that some of the outburst today from Opposition Members , both Conservative and SNP , will do nothing but undermine confidence for those company ? furthermore , can he please reassure I that he be work extensively with college and employer in Scotland to ensure that we see a skill transition from oil and gas into renewable , so that people in my constituency can take full opportunity of the investment that the Government be make ? my hon . friend be absolutely right that huge opportunity be come . I have say that we should be proud of the history of oil and gas , and we should also be really proud of what the industry be do to transition into the future . we need to do much more to ensure that job be deliver now , but certainty and confidence that the plan be not go to change overnight be critical for how we get private sector investment into the UK to deliver on those job . that be also why it be so important that we look at skill in the round . I have to say that , despite the outburst today , the SNP in Holyrood and the UK Government be work closely on ensure that the skill opportunity be deliver . would I like that to go far ? of course I would , and I hope we will have a change of Government and can make that happen . this only work if we have a serious approach to recognise the challenge , build the job of the future and ensure that people can take advantage of the opportunity right across Scotland . we urgently need to restore confidence and stability in our oil and gas sector , or we will be here again and again as more and more business suffer and more and more job be lose , whether in my constituency , across north - east Scotland , in Scotland as a whole or in the UK as a whole — there be oil and gas and energy job everywhere in the UK . the future of Petrofac ' s 2 , 000 skilled and expert staff , as well as the indirect job that rely on they , be now at risk and reliant on Petrofac be able to find a buyer for its North sea asset . do the Minister think that the job of find a buyer have be make more or less likely , give that the Government have create , in the industry ' s word , " the most unstable fiscal " environment " in the world " ? I have enormous respect for the hon . Lady , but I have to say that this be not the day to be talk down this particular company . she can make the wide point about this Government ' s policy — I totally recognise that — but this be a hugely important moment in which not to undermine a successful and grow company . we need to ensure that the supplier , related company and customer of Petrofac continue to support that business , because as of today it be operate as normal . it be incumbent on we all to ensure that that continue to be the case . we be work closely with the company to ensure that that outcome be deliver — the hon . Lady be right to mention the wide impact — but those 2 , 000 job and the supply chain job that rely on they have continue as normal today , and any suggestion to the contrary be just not correct . do my hon . friend agree that it be important to speak responsibly , with care and accuracy , about the successful UK arm of Petrofac ? to do otherwise will only serve to undermine the business and job security that we all want to see across the House . what step be he take to ensure that it have a long - term future in the UK ? I rightly expect to be challenge in the House on the Government ' s policy . a strong back - and - forth exchange be important . in this one instance , however , and separate from any view that member might have on the wide policy of this Government , it be important that we come together where we can and say that this be a strong , successful , grow company . it be in all our interest across the House to talk up the importance of that company ' s continue to be successful so that a buyer or another commercial resolution be find and those job can be maintain . that be surely in all our interest . every single one of we have be criticise Government policy , not criticise Petrofac , the expertise and worker at Petrofac , or any of the worker in our oil and gas industry . the Minister say that he have be spend time in Aberdeen . do he have any idea how it feel to be in Aberdeen just now , with another hammer blow come ? and it be because of the Government ' s policy ; it be because there be this massive gap . skilled worker in the oil and gas industry will just go abroad ; they will go elsewhere . it do not matter whether we retrain they ; the job be not there for they right now . what be he go to do to plug that gap ? what will he do to keep these skilled worker in Scotland , in Aberdeen and in these island , and not drive they away ? I take the hon . Lady ' s first point with a pinch of salt , after her second point that this come as a hammer blow to the community . there be no hammer blow ; those job have be protect — today 2 , 000 worker be wake up and do the same job they be do last week . I be often in Aberdeen but I do not pretend that I hear as much from people there as the hon . Lady do from her constituent . although I have make an effort to be there as often as possible to hear the concern , I recognise that we need to move far and fast than the previous Government do for 14 year , and the Scottish Government do for 18 year , to put a credible plan in place for the future of those job . that mean not only invest in future job , but ensure the process be in place so that people can take advantage of those job much more easily . passporting , which be stick in the mud for year , be now be deliver because we help to unlock it . there be a lot more to do , and we will say that in the come week when we publish our future of the North sea plan , but we be the one drive forward investment that create the job of the future . I be afraid that other party — I do not count the hon . Lady ' s party as one of those until today — be hark back to the past rather than recognise that the job of the future need to go hand in hand with good , well - pay oil and gas job in the short term . I thank the Minister for his statement and the confidence that he be show in those worker . we have hear from the SNP . the difference between Labour and the SNP just now be that the SNP want to scrap the energy profit levy but do not know what it will replace it with other than something that be fair . do the Minister think that be the kind of leadership we need in the oil and gas sector ? we recognise that the energy profit levy will come to an end and have consult on what the future of that look like with industry . it be a matter for the Chancellor to outline tax policy , as be standard practice in this House ; it be not for I to comment on that . but there be a broad question about how we ensure that we drive forward investment . talk down the investment in carbon capture , hydrogen , offshore wind and the supply chain be not the way to drive forward the job of the future , alongside the critical , important oil and gas job that will be with we for decade to come . why do the Minister refuse to issue new licence for the exploitation of new gas field and new oil field in the North sea ? that be what the industry would like , and that be what the country would like , because we would like a strong balance of payment , more tax revenue for the Exchequer , and a future for the North sea oil industry . what be the point of choke off our own North sea oil and gas industry when we have to import those fuel from other country ? we will respond to the consultation on the future of licensing in due course . this Government be elect on the manifesto commitment to not issue new licence to explore new field , but it remain our position that we will support exist licence and field for their lifetime . we must manage the future of the basin , which have be in decline for 20 - plus year — we hit peak oil in 1999 and peak oil in 2000 , so we have be in transition for a long time — and that mean invest in the industry that come next , alongside oil and gas . I be reassure that it be this Minister who be look at the issue and fight for those job in Aberdeen . I be acutely aware that the previous Government do not take full account of the impact of this situation . we now know that use Rosebank , which the shadow Minister raise , would create 50 time more climate - harm gas than the previous Government admit , and that the climate crisis be one of the big drag on growth . I know that the Minister be commit , in common with all Labour Members , to protect job and the planet , but what more can we do within our supply chain to support his work in get growth and the just transition that this country desperately need , without Rosebank ? the House will understand that I will not be draw on application that be currently await decision , so I will not comment on that specific application . on my hon . friend ' s broad point , as have already be say , the net zero economy be grow three time fast than the economy at large , and it be our economic future . I recently attend the G20 in South Africa , where minister from across the world be talk about the opportunity offer by the clean power transition in their own country . it be the economic opportunity of the 21st century , as well as how we deliver on climate leadership : contrary to what Opposition member might now think , that still matter . it be only right that we deliver a genuinely just transition for the worker who have power our country for the past 60 year . we have see where transition have not be do well . the previous Government fail to put in place any kind of plan , but we will deliver a plan that deliver a just transition and our economic future . I hear the Minister ' s reassure word , but surely he can understand the worry of the worker wake up this morning to the news that they hear . it be not just warm word that be cause the problem : it be policy , the energy profit levy and the ban on exploration . it be not just I say that : those who be concerned include the Port of Aberdeen , Robert Gordon University , the North Sea Transition Authority , the Tony Blair Institute for Global Change and the Scottish Affairs Committee . what will the Minister do to address these policy problem ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his tone and I accept the point that he make . as I have say , we can be clear that there be a viable future for those 2 , 000 worker and we should be positive about that — it be important that we talk up the future potential of the company — but I recognise that that do nothing for those who might be worry . we accept that the EPL will come to an end . we have consult with industry on what the future of that look like . we want to ensure that the Treasury gain value from price spike , a point on which his party and mine agree , and that be a matter for the Chancellor to take forward . if he be in favour of a tax cut for oil and gas , it be important that he say where that significant amount of revenue will come from to fund the public service on which he and I rely . I welcome the Government ' s mention of tieback in a consultation early this year . the development of tieback be important because it reduce cost and extend the life of exist critical infrastructure . however , many exist hub be reach the end of their life and we may miss the opportunity that be in front of we . will the Minister look at tieback as a pragmatic step to help aid the transition ? my hon . friend be always a great champion for the industry . although we often talk , quite rightly , about Aberdeen and north - east Scotland , she be right to champion her own community , where there be a significant number of oil and gas worker . I always welcome her straightforward challenge to I on many point . I will not get into the detail of the response to the consultation , which we will publish in due course , but we have be clear that we want a credible , long - term plan for the future of the North sea . that be why we consult on a range of factor , not just the future licensing position , and we will come to a pragmatic position on what the future of the North sea look like . for how many year , in the Government ' s estimation , will we have to keep import foreign oil and gas , as a result of not be allow fully to exploit our own supply ? perhaps I should switch the question back : for how many year have we already be import oil and gas ? that get we to the fundamental point . the Conservatives want to pretend that in July last year , we switch to be a net importer of oil and gas . that be not what happen . the right hon . Gentleman ' s party oversaw that transition over many , many year . I recognise that , to some degree , give the geology of the basin , there would not have be different decision take if we have be in government , but what we could have do differently be ensure that the transition be happen , and deliver the economic opportunity that come along with what come next , and that be what we will do . do the Minister share my concern about Reform and the Conservatives deny the reality of climate change , and deny that the good way to protect people ' s job , include energy job , be to follow the green job plan ? do he agree that nuclear , include as Heysham 1 and 2 in my constituency — and , if I get my way , new nuclear at Heysham — be vital to the clean energy job plan ? I be go to say that that might be a note of consensus across the House , but I remember that the SNP have an ideological objection to nuclear in Scotland , so it will not benefit from the economic opportunity that come from thousand of well - pay , skilled and trade - unionise job in nuclear . we believe that there be a long - term future for nuclear , which be why we announce funding for Sizewell C , conclude the small modular reactor programme , and have be work with the US Government to bring forward private funding partnership to build the late technology in the UK . that come with thousand of job , will help we to deliver on energy security long into the future , and help to tackle the climate crisis . this party believe that the climate crisis be an existential threat , and we should do everything that we can to tackle it . thousand more job be at risk , alongside the thousand of family and job at risk at the Lindsey oil refinery in Lincolnshire , all because of this Government ' s policy on net stupid zero , yet the Minister talk warmly about the growth prospect for Petrofac . to grow , we need an industry ; to have an industry , we need more oil and gas licence . will the Minister change course and allow exploration and more licence to produce oil and gas in the North sea ? I be not sure that there be a hugely coherent argument there . the hon . Gentleman seem to say that the future might be in clean energy job , but he say , " they might not be deliver fast enough , so we should not bother do it . " we think there be an important long - term future in deliver clean energy , include in his constituency , where many supply chain job will be deliver , and he be against that economic investment . he should explain to his constituent and to the wide country why Reform want to make this country more energy - dependent , not less energy - dependent , and why it be against the economic opportunity that our proposal bring . even if we disagree on the climate crisis — which I find staggering , give all the evidence ; I accept that he might be bury his head in the sand — we should at least agree that there be a huge economic opportunity , and an opportunity to maintain our energy security . I recently visit the Bacton gas terminal in the constituency of the hon . member for North Norfolk ( Steff Aquarone ) , which be on the North sea coast . it already provide up to one third of our nation ' s gas supply , and be ideally place to be a carbon capture and hydrogen hub . the Minister have just talk about job ; I want those job in my area . will he recognise the vital role that the east of England play , back Bacton ' s plan to ensure its low - carbon future , and help to secure good , local job ? my hon . friend be right to highlight that this be a huge opportunity , which the previous Government talk about a lot but do not actually move forward on deliver . in the spending review , there be significant amount of investment to move forward with the carbon capture cluster , and we have follow that up with specific investment over the past few month . I have be privileged to visit some of the site and see the potential for maintain exist job in industry while build the job of the future in carbon capture . we be hugely positive about the future vision for carbon capture across the country , as a way to tackle our emission , help we get to net zero , and create good industrial job . I thank the Minister for the engagement we have have over the future of Lindsey oil refinery in my constituency . can he give any indication of what support the Government might give , and when a final decision might be take ? will he at least acknowledge that new licence in the North sea would offer job opportunity for those people whose job be at risk ? I thank the hon . gentleman for the engagement we have have on this issue . obviously , the failure of the company that be previously run the Prax Lindsey oil refinery have have a really significant impact . we have be work to make sure that the process that the official receiver be go through be conclude as soon as possible . it be for the receiver to decide who the potential buyer be ; it be look at a shortlist of credible candidate , but give the nature of the insolvency , it be not for the Government to decide what be build next on that site . turn to the hon . Gentleman ' s second point , I genuinely do not think that the licensing question will decide the future of job for that site . we want to build up an industry for the future on that site , with long - term , sustainable job , and all the evidence we have see about manage the future of the North sea basin suggest that that while oil and gas will be important for many year to come , that be not the long - term future for the North sea . it be very important to increase the number of skilled job in renewable and in hydrogen . I welcome the Minister ' s mention of the Government ' s clean job plan ; can he say more about that plan , and in particular about training and development for young staff , as well as retrain for exist staff ? I thank my hon . friend for his question , and particularly for mention retrain . we see huge opportunity for people who be in the middle of career to transfer into the energy system . just in the past few week , we have be look at a scheme to support veteran who be leave the armed force in get job build infrastructure . there be huge opportunity in that sector if we can capitalise on the clean energy transition . we also need to invest in the future of the next generation of worker . in England , we be look at technical training college to make that happen . funding go to the Scottish Government to do that in Scotland and , of course , to the Welsh Government as well . the future of our energy system be clean energy ; we want to make sure that we have the job and training opportunity that go with it , so that the people of our country get an economic advantage , as well as the country get the energy security . today ' s Petrofac news have nothing to do with UK oil and gas policy . this be a company with a long history of financial challenge and mismanagement ; it be fine million for bribery , lose £ 6 billion in value since 2012 , and have now lose a contract with the Netherlands . do the Minister agree that any attempt to claim otherwise be blatant political point scoring by the Tories and other with a head - in - the - sand climate denial agenda , and be a distraction from what really matter , which be ensure that every worker whose job be affect by today ' s news be properly support ? I agree with the hon . Lady on the wide point , which be that — as I outline in my opening answer — Petrofac have not have its trouble to seek . she have outline a number of those trouble , but I reiterate that the UK arm of that business be successful and grow . we want to make sure that that continue — that there be a buyer , or another solution , so that it can continue long into the future . other will seek to politicise this news for the sake of their own political narrative , but it be incumbent on all of we to send as positive a message as we can to the worker , supplier and customer of Petrofac — the message that the UK arm continue to operate as normal , and that we want that to continue . every month , 1 , 000 - plus people lose their job in North sea oil and gas . contrary to the case that the Minister present , the industry say that this decline basin still have 4 billion additional barrel that could be extract , if only there be new licence . he tell the House that that oil and gas will be need for decade to come , yet he cut off all new supply , mortally damage the whole supply chain , of which Petrofac be part . the Minister can not deny responsibility , and he need to persuade the Chancellor — if not his Secretary of State , who be probably beyond persuasion — that we need to move to a practical policy that include new licence . we need to optimise this , because green and fossil fuel do not need to be in tension ; we want the transition , but we must keep those job for now . first , I welcome the right hon . Gentleman ' s recognition — which we seldom hear from his party ' s Front Benchers these day — that this be a transition , and that we want the economic opportunity of oil and gas and those of renewable . it be a delight to hear he say that ; his Front Benchers should say so more often and talk up the phenomenal renewable industry , which the Conservatives should take a bit of credit for . over the past 14 year , they build up so much of that industry across the country , but they have turn away from that now . turn to the licensing point , I can not remember at what stage the right hon . Gentleman be in the Government , but of course , the previous Government say that they would not issue new licence . later , they briefly do ; then they recognise that that be the wrong policy — I think it be the Liz Truss year in which they change around . a tiny fraction of the licence that have be issue have ever result in extraction from the North sea . we will manage exist licence for their lifespan , and will take a pragmatic view on the future of the North sea , which we will announce in the come week , but the long - term future of the North sea do not lie in oil and gas ; it lie in renewable , carbon capture and hydrogen . do the Minister really consider this a just transition ? we have thousand of contractor arrive in the highland . they stay in worker ’ camp , and very few legacy house be agree . the company be not employ local people , and this be all in an area with the great fuel poverty in Britain . we know that winter have come when the hon . Gentleman turn up in his lovely knit jumper ; it be a pleasure to see they back again . he and I have have a number of conversation on this issue , and I recognise how seriously he take it . there have be some good move recently to look at the legacy leave behind , particularly housing . this be about build housing that suit the workforce , but can be leave behind for community afterwards . we need a lot of work in partnership with the Scottish Government , who have responsibility for housing policy , to make sure that the opportunity be take forward . the Minister for energy consumer , my hon . friend the Member for Inverclyde and Renfrewshire West ( Martin McCluskey ) , will say much more in due course about our plan for warm home . that will result in significant spending in Scotland , but that will be in the hand of the Scottish Government , who have cut this budget time and again . I hope that they will change their way , and will help the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent to have warm home this winter . have the Minister make any estimate of the likely impact on Petrofac and similar enterprise of the extension of the energy profit levy ? as I have say in a number of answer , the UK arm of Petrofac be a successful and grow business . its hold company go into administration today due to a number of factor , include the loss of an international contract . it be nothing to do with our policy in the North sea . I say to our colleague on the Green green Benches that of course climate change exist . we need green investment , green job and the green transition , but be there not a fundamental flaw at the heart of the Government ' s policy , which be that it be ideologically drive ? have we not learn anything from Russia ' s invasion of Ukraine about energy security , energy sovereignty and energy independence ? I put it to the Minister , with the great respect , that in the medium to long term , if we continue down this track too quickly , without a stable transition for worker and the energy sector , the Government could end up undermine the UK ' s national security . I thank the right hon . gentleman for how he have put the question . energy security be at the heart of what we be try to do , because our exposure to fossil fuel be what lead to some of the most significant price spike in all our constituent ’ bill — spike that they still face today . our continued exposure to the impact of Russia ' s invasion of Ukraine — even though none of that russian gas now reach we — be because of the international market ; they drive this forward . the only way to take back control of our energy be by build the clean power system of the future , and the pace of that transition be absolutely right . we be drive forward momentum , to make sure that the investment come forward to create job in the economy right now . that have be successful ; there have be £ 50 billion of private investment just in the past year . my view be that 10 or 20 year ago , both under the previous Labour Government and under the Conservative Government , we should have recognise that a transition be under way and put in place a credible plan for protect the job . that be not do , but we be determined to do it , so that the transition for oil and gas worker be into good , well - pay job in renewable , carbon capture , hydrogen and other technology , and we have a genuinely just and prosperous transition . job loss in the North sea come from the lack of a strategic energy transition plan . the same apply to nuclear in Wales , where the lack of a plan for Wylfa have see nuclear job in Ynys M ô n fall to a record low . do the Minister agree that future - proof our energy industry against job loss and rise cost require a clear strategy and timely decision from this Government ? the hon . Lady rightly take every opportunity to ask I about the range of energy issue in her constituency , and I thank she for that . we have conclude the small modular reactor programme that we inherit from the previous Government , with Rolls - Royce win that competition . the future of nuclear will be take forward with Hinkley Point C , Sizewell C and the future of the SMR programme , but also with private sector investment in the US - UK partnership , which will build it . the decision on where the smr will be be under consideration by my noble Friend , the Minister for nuclear , and we will have more to say about that in due course . this government like to tell people that growth be their first priority , but growth require abundant and cheap energy . do the Minister recognise that the only thing they be grow by cut the oil and gas industry be domestic price , business price and the number of job loss in the industry ? no , I do not . the clean power that we be try to build will enable we to ensure that we remove gas as the price setter on our system . at present , gas set the price 80 % of the time , although it be often clean power that be power the country . that be a problem that we have to end , so that all our constituent — but also business — benefit from cheap power . the cheap form of electricity that we can build at the moment be solar . I know that the hon . Lady object to a number of those scheme in her own constituency , as she be perfectly entitle to do , but I would say to Conservative Members that if we want to build a power system that bring down bill , we have to support the infrastructure that go with it . sadly , this be not an isolated case ; regrettably , it be a pattern of decline that we be see under this government . can the Minister tell we how many company must go under before the Government realise that Great Britain can not build a resilient and secure energy system by shut down the energy industry ? let I just challenge the premise of that question once again . Petrofac ' s UK arm have not go under ; it be work today as it do yesterday and the day before and the day before that , and as it will the day after . it be a successful , grow business , and we have a responsibility to talk up the industry to ensure that it have a viable , long - term future . in the next few day we will continue to work intensively with the company to make that happen , but we do have a responsibility not to undermine a successful business , which be what the UK arm of Petrofac be . the company that go into administration today be the topco of Petrofac , which have no employee . the United Kingdom ' s electricity price be set by gas 98 % of the time . by contrast , the electricity price in the European Union be set by gas less than 40 % of the time . if the electricity price in the UK be set by the price of clean energy more often , would the UK not be a more attractive destination for investment in energy generation ? [ interruption . ] the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right , although I think I hear a " no " from the Opposition Front Bench in response to his question . the only way in which we can deliver long - term energy security be to get off the rollercoaster of fossil fuel . the future be in clean energy : we see that across Europe , where nuclear and renewable be drive down the cost of electricity , but also insulate country from the price spike that we have see as a result of , for instance , Russia ' s invasion of Ukraine . we be too expose to gas at the moment , which be why our electricity price be high , even though for much of the day our power be be generate by clean energy , which be considerably cheap . clean energy be the economic opportunity of the 21st century . it be how we deliver our energy security , how we tackle the climate crisis , and how we bring down bill for people now and in the long term . while Labour continue down the path of net zero , the UK now import more than 40 % of its total energy need from overseas . give that the UK be the second most expensive country in the world for household electricity , will the Minister issue new oil and gas licence so that we can get oil and gas out of the North sea to support job and help energy company to cut fuel cost for people right across these isle ? I do not know whether the footnote to the hon . Gentleman ' s question say this , but even if we be to issue new licence , what we extract from the North sea would be trade on the international market and we would pay the price that be trade on the international market . I would like to understand the hon . Gentleman ' s logic in respect of how that would help we to bring down bill ; it be not the case . let I be clear about this : the long - term future of our energy system be a mix of nuclear and renewable . remove ourselves from the volatility of fossil fuel be the only way forward , but it be also an economic opportunity for his constituent and those of member on both side of the House . we will build this infrastructure here with a proper industrial strategy to create the job of the future . can the Minister explain to my constituent how ban new drilling for oil and gas while import gas from other country at a high cost will bring their bill down by £ 300 , and can he say when that will happen by ? let I say to the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent , and indeed to anyone ' s constituent , that over the past few year they have be pay the price for what happen as a result of our exposure to fossil fuel . the last Government have to spend ten of billion of pound on reduce people ' s bill because of that exposure . the hon . Gentleman may have forget about that , but I can tell he that his constituent will not have , because they be still pay the price for it . this Government be determined not to make the same mistake again . the opposition be willing to go back to the fossil fuel casino again and again and hope that it give they a well hand , but we be go to build the clean power system of the future and bring down bill for good . I have a number of constituent who depend on the North sea oil and gas industry for their employment . the Minister will be aware that if a buyer be not find , the knock - on effect will not be limit to those family face redundancy , but will affect our nation ' s energy security . do the Minister accept that the uncertainty of Government support have have an effect on the future sustainability of the industry , and that we should be realistic and acknowledge that the Government need to continue to invest in the industry until we approach that far - off time when , just perhaps , we do not need oil and gas ? I always welcome the hon . Gentleman ' s contribution in our many debate on energy , both here and in Westminster Hall . he be right that the impact of job loss go well beyond the individual , although I reiterate that in this case there have be no job loss in the UK ; Petrofac continue to be successful , and it be in all our interest to make sure that remain the case . on the hon . Gentleman ' s wide question , I know that the impact be feel on supply chain job in his constituency and across the country . that be why we need to build up the new energy infrastructure here as well . for too long , all those offshore wind platform that be tow into british water give job to other country , instead of create job here in the UK . we be determined to do something different . we be drive forward investment in the supply chain to make sure that there be a viable future for his constituent and for those across the country . Prisoner Release Checks I would like to make a statement on the release in error of Hadush Kebatu from HMP Chelmsford last Friday morning . as the House will be aware , Mr Kebatu be apprehend by the Metropolitan police on Sunday morning in the Finsbury Park area of my constituency . he be back where he belong : behind bar . I thank the Metropolitan police , Essex police and the British Transport police for their swift action to return he to custody , and the public who help to locate Kebatu after the police appeal . I can tell the House that he will now be transport for deportation back to Ethiopia as quickly as possible . however , that do not change the fact that Mr Kebatu ' s victim be rightly outraged about what have happen . I be livid on their behalf , and on behalf of the public . this be a mistake that should not have happen . the victim expect well , the public expect well , and this Government expect well from a critical public service , which play a vital role in our first duty : to keep the british people safe and free from harm . on Friday 24 October , Mr Kebatu be schedule to be transfer from HMP Chelmsford to an immigration removal centre , from which he be to be deport . due to what appear to have be human error , he be instead release into the community at 10 . 25 am . shortly after 12 pm , concern be raise about the release to the duty governor , and , follow check , staff be dispatch to locate he . when it become clear that he be no long in the vicinity of the prison , Essex police be notify and a manhunt begin . his Majesty ' s Prison and Probation Service instigate an immediate investigation , and I have ask for the initial finding to be with I this week . the House will appreciate that , in the meantime , there be a limit on what I can say . member will be aware that there be national security consideration within a case like this . I will update the House in the appropriate way as soon as I can . what I can say today be that there must be , and there will be , accountability for what have happen . when I be first inform of the release in error , I speak immediately to the duty governor at HMP Chelmsford and senior hmpps leader in order to understand what be know and to seek assurance about the immediate measure be take . I task my official with work through the night and co - ordinate a response with the Home Office and the police , and I put on the record my thank to the Home Secretary for her engagement over the weekend . I also chair three operational meeting with the police , and on Sunday I be able to travel to Wood Green police station , just outside my constituency , to personally thank the police officer who catch Kebatu . I have be clear from the outset that a mistake of this nature be unacceptable . we must get to the bottom of what happen and take immediate action to try to prevent similar release in error in order to protect the public from harm . first , on Friday I instruct the chief executive officer of his Majesty ' s Prison and Probation Service to carry out an urgent review to look at the check that take place when a prisoner be release , and to identify immediate change that could be make to the process , in order to mitigate the risk of release in error . as a result , HMPPS have take step to make these process more robust . there will now be more direct senior accountability for ensure that protocol and check be correctly apply , include a clear checklist for governor to determine that every step have be follow the evening before any release take place . these be the strong release check that have ever be in place . they will apply to every release from custody and be effective immediately . secondly , any foreign national offender be remove through the early removal scheme — the scheme through which Kebatu be suppose to be remove from the country — can now be discharge only when the duty governor be physically present , and there will be no ERS removal from HMP Chelmsford for the rest of this week . thirdly , I be today announce that there will be an independent investigation by Dame Lynne Owens — I speak to she yesterday . she be a former deputy commissioner of the Metropolitan police and a former director general of the National Crime Agency . she will fully establish the fact of Kebatu ' s release and whether staff have sufficient experience , training and technology . she will also talk to the victim in this case to understand the effect that this incident have on they . her report will highlight point of failure and make recommendation to help prevent further release in error , which have be rise year on year since 2021 — from an average of nine per month in 2023 to 17 per month in the period span January to June 2024 . I be clear that a single release in error be one too many , which be why we have launch this independent investigation . I can tell the House that it will have the same status as those into other prison incident , include the awful attack on three prison officer at HMP Frankland in April and the escape of Daniel Khalife from HMP Wandsworth in 2023 , under the last government . release in error be a symptom of the system that we inherit from the conservative party . jail be full — almost to breaking point — and there be the threat of a total collapse in law and order . the fact be that we be leave with prison reel from historic funding reduction : a 24 % real - term cut between 2010 and 2015 , and 30 % cut in staffing . today , we have be leave with over 50 % of frontline prison officer have less than five year ' experience . when the system have be bring to its knee , it be little wonder that error like this happen . we must also be honest about how the previous Government ' s approach to this crisis — piecemeal , complex emergency release in the hope that the system would not collapse — have add a level of complexity and pressure that make error more likely . this Government have be transparent about the difficult decision necessary to fix the mess for good so that prison can keep we safe and future government need not find emergency solution to free up capacity . this Government have bring forward the Sentencing Bill , which be currently make its way through this House . it will ensure that we have a suitable criminal justice system , and one that can deliver punishment that work , cut crime and keep the public safe . this government be also build 14 , 000 additional prison place , so that we have the capacity to lock up the most dangerous offender . this be the large prison expansion since the victorian era , and let we be clear that there will be more people in prison at the end of this Parliament than there ever have be before . we have already build 2 , 500 additional prison place in just over a year , compare with the 500 add overall to the prison estate under the Tories . we be deport more foreign criminal than the last government . we change the law last month to speed up the early removal scheme — which , to be fair , the shadow Justice Secretary call for — so that most foreign prisoner can now be deport after serve 30 % of their custodial sentence , rather than the previous 50 % . through the Sentencing Bill , we will go even far to deport foreign criminal as soon as possible after sentencing . I can confirm that , in the year to July 2025 , we send 5 , 179 foreign national offender back to their country of origin , which be a 14 % increase on the previous 12 month . this free up desperately need prison place and save the taxpayer the £ 54 , 000 per year it cost to hold an individual offender . this context set out the scale of the challenge , but I be clear that release in error be not simply a fact of life . the public will not accept that and neither do the Government . we will get to the bottom of what happen in this case , and we will take whatever step necessary to tackle the spike in release in error , so that we can uphold the first duty of every Government , which be to keep the public safe from harm . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State . dear , oh dear , where to begin ? this Justice Secretary could not deport the only small boat migrant who want — no , who try — to be deport . have be mistakenly release , Hadush Kebatu come back to prison ask to be deport not once , not twice , but five time , but he be turn away . the only illegal migrant this government be stop be those who actually want to leave the UK . his official , brief the press , call it " the mother of all — " . yeah , they be not wrong , be they ? calamity Lammy strike again . it be a national embarrassment . today the Justice Secretary feign anger at what have happen . he say he be " livid " that Kebatu be mistakenly let out , but under his plan to abolish short prison sentence , which he force through the Commons last week , Kebatu would never have even step foot in prison in the first place . let we get it straight : we have the spectacle of the Metropolitan police scour London to find a man the Justice Secretary be simultaneously legislate to avoid send to prison . what an absolute farce ! I must commend the Justice Secretary ' s performance : it be truly BAFTA - worthy . he have perfect the art of performative outrage to a tee . on Wednesday — [ interruption . ] they may be laugh , but let I finish this point . on Wednesday , the Justice Secretary will force every one of his mps to vote again on the Sentencing Bill , which will see hundred of sex offender just like Kebatu avoid prison altogether — sick man who destroy the life of young girl , who steal their childhood from they . they will be free to roam your community to steal the childhood of your constituent . I will tell you who will be livid then : the british public will be livid and they will know who be to blame . the Justice Secretary say he have launch an inquiry into what have happen , but he should be able to provide some basic question to the House now . with respect to the prison in question , HMP Chelmsford , there be clearly a very significant problem . in a previous internal audit at Chelmsford , official have mark their own homework as " good " , yet inspector rate it as of " serious concern " . what be the Justice Secretary go to do now to address the way in which problem in our prison be cover up routinely or wish away ? on the inquiry itself , you will not be surprised to hear that I be — how shall I put this ? — sceptical about this Government ' s ability to conduct inquiry with any competence . why be they limit themselves to this particular security farce and not the other glare error , such as the doubling of drone sighting above prison , the soar assault on prison officer or the rampant extremism we be now see in our jail ? shock as this accidental release be , it be not a one - off blunder . it have come to be the norm under this government , as the number of prisoner mistakenly let out early have more than double . will the Justice Secretary tell the House how many of the 262 prisoner let out mistakenly in the year to March be violent or sexual offender ? and how many be still at large ? there be now record number of foreign national clog up our prison — more than under the last government . how many of those 262 prisoner accidentally release be migrant , like Kebatu , who be await deportation ? can the Justice Secretary give the House his cast - iron assurance that this man will be deport from our country by the end of the week , as he promise on the news on Sunday ? if he fail , will he take responsibility and resign ? lastly , on Tuesday the Justice Secretary block my amendment to release the migrant crime datum . do he now finally acknowledge that there be a link between the small boat and crime in this country ? will he call the small boat out for what they be : a national security emergency ? this man should never have be in our country in the first place . that be the truth . he should have be detain . he should have be deport . instead , he be put up in a hotel in Epping and allow to prey on schoolgirl . now we learn that some Labour official privately concede that they be wrong to scrap the Rwanda plan . be in no doubt : from start to finish , the Kebatu fiasco be a creation entirely of Labour ' s own making . so , I say to the Justice Secretary , there be no point come to the House today profess to be livid at the consequence of your own policy . the british people , they can see straight through you . this be a serious issue and that be why there will be a full independent investigation . the shadow Justice Secretary — I will give he this — be smooth . but as my mother would have say , if he be chocolate he would lick himself . he should hang his head in shame . the crisis in our prison that we face today be because of 14 year of failure under his government . as they be pack their bag to leave office — he know this — there be temporary release failure under his watch . they preside over 17 mistaken release per month . this do not happen overnight , and it be not inevitable ; it be due to the choice make by the right hon . Gentleman ' s party over 14 year of chaos . the Conservatives say that they be the Government of security and safety , but again and again they oversee rise instance of violent crime and crumble court and prison . they promise 20 , 000 extra prison place , and they manage only an extra 500 — 500 in 14 year . they promise to remove more foreign national offender from our prison , and they fail . they promise investment and expansion in the prison system , but budget stall . they promise investment in the police , but we see police number cut by 20 , 000 . they promise increase in access to justice , but we do not see that ; instead , we see almost the collapse of legal aid . under the right hon . Gentleman ' s watch , violence , self - harm and drug abuse go up in our prison while prison officer number be cut , yet he have the brass neck to come here and give the impression that this problem start just 14 month ago . let I just pause there . William Fernandez , a sexual predator , be release in error in March 2021 . after he be let out of prison , he rape a 16 - year - old and sexually assault another young woman . be there an independent investigation ? no , not from the Conservatives . when Rayon Newby , another man who be mistakenly release from a category b prison , be release in error in March 2023 , be there an independent investigation under the right hon . Gentleman ' s watch ? no , there be not . when Lauras Matiusovas be release in error in December 2021 , be there any independent investigation ? there be none at all . the right hon . Gentleman have some brass neck . I have ask Lynne Owens to look at this incident and to do so in eight week , and we will of course come back to the House when that be do . all of what the right hon . Gentleman have say — look at what happen over this period of time — will be subject to that review . the right hon . Gentleman also say that the sentencing review will let out more foreign national , but he be wrong . we have actually bring down the threshold , so that someone can now be deport with just a suspend sentence . he know that . if he read clause 42 of the Sentencing Bill , he will understand that properly . I call the Chair of the Justice Committee . give the pressure on prison front desk and the complexity of rule for release , this be an accident wait to happen . one thing that might bring down the number of release in error be the digitising of prisoner record . on visit to prison , Justice Committee member be often horrified to find staff rely on handwritten file . while some part of the justice system be entertain artificial intelligence , why be our prison still run on pen and paper system ? my hon . friend raise an important point . as he know , there be to this day largely no wi - fi or anything like that available on our prison site , in part because of concern over the use of technology by prisoner . for that reason , prison use a paper - base system , which will always be subject to some human error . in the context of this continue early release scheme be do on the quiet under the previous Government , and indeed because of the change that we be make in the Sentencing Bill , it be right that we have a proper look at this . I discuss this matter with Lynne Owens when we speak yesterday . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . we Liberal Democrats be relieve that Kebatu have be recapture after what must have be a terrifying few day for his victim , and we echo the Justice Secretary ' s remark thank Essex police , the Metropolitan police and British Transport police . however , Kebatu ' s recapture do not excuse the serious mistake that cause his release to happen in the first place — it be totally unacceptable that the safety of the public be ever put at risk . HMP Chelmsford be a remand prison that regularly deal with prisoner come and go , and it should therefore be highly capable of handle situation like this . yet we know from his Majesty ' s chief inspector of prison that there be deep - seat inadequacy at Chelmsford , include inexperienced staff and a lack of adequate training , identify especially in pre - release document . at the same time , we have see worry trend nationally in mistaken prisoner release , with 262 prisoner release by accident in 2025 , up from 115 the previous year . we Liberal Democrats recognise that the Government inherit a mess when it come to prison , but they should have take serious step to address the shortfall and staffing issue in prison , which be now clearly put the public at risk . what step be the Secretary of State ' s government take to address work culture and training issue in our prison , especially prison such as HMP Chelmsford where concern have already be raise ? I welcome the Secretary of State ' s announcement of an independent investigation , follow repeat call by my hon . friend the Member for Chelmsford ( Marie Goldman ) , whose constituent be put at risk , but will he confirm what consequence those find at fault will face ? also , pende the outcome of the investigation , do he agree that anyone responsible should face the sack ? do he believe that the new safeguard he be put in place will prevent this from ever happen again ? finally , Kebatu ' s victim will have spend the weekend incredibly distressed . what support be provide to those victim and their family over the weekend when they be aware of the perpetrator be at large , and will that support continue ? I be very grateful to the hon . Lady for the tone of her remark . she be right that what happen be entirely unacceptable , and understandably the victim of Kebatu ' s crime and their family would have be very anxious over the course of the weekend . the public at large would also have be very anxious , particularly woman and child . she be right that there be issue in our prison ; 50 % of our prison staff be effectively new on the job as a result of what we inherit from the Conservatives . it be important that we give they the appropriate support and training over this period . the hon . Lady know , because I have say it from the Dispatch Box , that it be our intention to grow the number of prison place — 14 , 000 place by 2031 — and build new prison . in that context , it be also important that we grow the number of officer and support they . the hon . Lady know too the importance of probation in this context , and the £ 700 million we have allocate to support our Probation Service at this time be really important . she will recognise that , in a system that release 57 , 000 prisoner every year , many prisoner be release appropriately under licence . some of they be report to probation or at home or for tag , and many of they — a proportion that have go up — be report for early removal . for all those reason it be important that Lynne Owens get to the bottom of what happen in this circumstance . on the weekend we hear Conservative Members talk about the Labour party release this prisoner early . that be a rather silly comment , as the Labour party do not release anybody . do the Secretary of State agree that what have cause , create and contribute to the problem that have enable these mistake to happen have not come from the 14 month we have be in power but from the 14 year of austerity and cut that the Conservatives oversaw ? as a statement of fact , the Conservatives recognise that the inheritance we have in this context be poor . the public want to ensure that whoever be in government keep they safe and that people be not be release from prison in the wrong way . that be why it be important that there be a full and independent investigation into this incident and that the system learn lesson from it . I list previous case where there be no full or independent investigation . we could have learn from these case early if the Conservatives have act . I call the Father of the House . the crisis of small boat cross the channel be utterly debilitate and be alienate million of people from the whole political process . imagine how the whole atmosphere would have lighten if the Government have come here today and say , " this sort of farce can not continue . we will get out of any convention , and from midnight tonight if you land illegally on these shore , you will be detain and deport immediately back to where you have come from . " I want to ask about a particular constituency point . such be the crisis around how to house these people that there be report today in the Times and other newspaper that the Government be think of opening disuse military site and be look at two or three in particular . the Government give a solemn promise that they would not use RAF Scampton to house illegal migrant . will the Secretary of State confirm that that solemn promise still stand ? the right hon . Gentleman will have hear the Housing Secretary this morning talk about how we be look at military site . we be look at a number of they intently . I be afraid that I be unable to give he reassurance in relation to his constituency because I have not get the list in front of I , but I will ensure that the appropriate Minister make contact with he . it be deeply concern that a dangerous criminal be release on to the street — that should not have happen — but I thank the Deputy Prime Minister for his honest assessment of what happen and for acknowledge that it be wrong . do he agree that we be deal with 14 year of Tory neglect with overcrowded and understaffed prison , and that when thing go wrong — as they have do — it be essential that we take swift and decisive action so that the public ' s trust in the justice system be maintain , and that that be exactly what we be do now ? I be grateful to my hon . friend . the truth be that , under this Government in our first year in office , more than 5 , 100 foreign national offender be remove from this country . we have remove 2 , 500 more from prison than in recent time . under the last government , there be 800 release in error and no full independent investigation . that be the truth . it be on this watch that we be go to change that . the trial , sentencing and mistaken release of Hadush Kebatu all take place in the heart of my constituency , and it be entirely unacceptable . first , I thank Essex police , British Transport police and the Metropolitan police , as well as the public for their vigilance , for ensure that he be apprehend and will now be deport . I welcome the announcement of an independent investigation , but the Government must ensure that any recommendation be implement in full without delay and not just leave to gather dust on a bookshelf . on prison leadership , do the Justice Secretary agree that scapegoate a single prison officer for systemic failure be unacceptable and that if leader — include prison governor — be find to be at fault , they should resign ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady . I know that this case have be shocking for her constituent and that the report and scene of this prisoner wander around Chelmsford will have be incredibly disturbing ; particularly so for the victim of the crime . I know that she have speak to the Prisons Minister — I grateful that she reach out as she do — and I think that she have speak to the governor as well . we have suspend the officer involve pende an investigation — that must be right and proper — but I hope the hon . Lady will recognise that , have ask Dame Lynne Owens to look at this case closely , we will of course take seriously her recommendation . I will ensure that the House can fully scrutinise those recommendation when they come forward . the case of Kebatu have expose deep failing in our prison system as a result — as we have hear — of 14 year of failure by the previous Tory Government . those failing be make bad by chronic staff shortage . the immediate , reckless skilled visa rule change risk force hundred of experienced overseas officer out of the service overnight . at HMP Liverpool , 40 % of staff could be affect . will the Secretary of State explain how strip our prison of train staff will make they safe or help prevent further failure like those see in Mr Kebatu ' s case ? I want to reassure my hon . friend that the Prisons Minister be talk to Home Office colleague about these very issue at this time . my thought be with the victim of this sex offender ' s crime , include the 14 - year - old epping schoolgirl . they and their family want answer as to how this major breach could have happen . the Prime Minister and the Justice Secretary have say that they be " appalled " and " livid " . well , that be great — so be everyone — but Ministers be not commentator ; they be in charge and ultimately they be accountable . this issue have not go away for the people of Epping . the twice - weekly protest continue . no one want our town to be repeatedly the lead story in the news , but the event of recent day have again raise community anxiety and distress . will the Government now get a grip on this issue , address the illegal immigration crisis that have spin out of control on their watch , and do the right and safe thing and close the Bell hotel immediately ? the hon . Gentleman be right , at the beginning of his question , to centre the victim of these crime and their anxiety , and to hold that dear . that be why the first thing I say to Lynne Owens be that she should reach out to those victim and hear from they as she go about her work . I know eppe very well , and I be quite sure that the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent know that the crisis that we inherit begin under the last government . their discontent with asylum and immigration — the inability of the last government to deal with the gang and the collapse of the Rwanda scheme — and the outrage of asylum hotel all begin under the last government , and he know that as well as I do . I thank my right hon . friend for come to the House today to address this serious issue . many of my constituent raise it with I over the weekend . I notice that not a single member from Reform be here , especially not the hon . member for Runcorn and Helsby ( Sarah Pochin ) . I be assume that she be still run scared after her horrific racist remark over the weekend . can the Secretary of State confirm that the deportation of Kebatu will proceed unhindered and without delay — order . I ask the hon . gentleman to ponder his word . I suggest that he withdraw the remark that he have just make about another hon . member . on your advice , Madam Deputy Speaker , I withdraw that remark . to finish my question , will the Secretary of State ensure that there be a swift plan , so that when mistake be make we can ensure that public trust in the justice system be retain ? my hon . friend be right , and it be hugely important to put this in the context not only of the victim , who will have be anxious , but of the inheritance of the backlog in our court that be prevent people from get justice . he be also right to reference the hon . member for Runcorn and Helsby , who I see be not in her seat despite her very inflammatory statement over the weekend . it be outrageous that Kebatu be not deport at the end of his sentence . what be bad be that the number of prisoner release by mistake have more than double under this Government . if the Justice Secretary be determined to release thousand more prisoner early , how confident be he that this mistake will not be repeat again and again on his watch ? there be actually a point of agreement between the two main party : that foreign national offender who commit crime should be deport as quickly as possible . we be attempt to do that with the Sentencing Bill . the shadow Justice Secretary have raise that matter , and it be one point , at least , of agreement . I be serious about get to grip with the early release issue and be serious when I say , and the hon . Member know this , that this story begin before we come to office . it be why one of our most senior police officer will be look at this issue and , of course , we will take all her recommendation seriously . it be hugely important that the public see the system work and that they feel safe . Hadush Kebatu be clearly a depraved individual and a dangerous pervert who should be boot out of the country without delay . but my constituent be sick and tired of have to foot the bill for the cost of housing foreign national offender in british jail . will the Home Secretary therefore reassure they that the Sentencing Bill will make it much easy to deport those individual and ensure that they be in foreign jail where they belong , rather than clog up our prison ? my hon . friend be exactly right . it cost £ 54 , 000 a year to have any individual in prison in our country — that be a lot of money . that be why it be important that we reduce the period that they be in our country , and that once they have be convict and serve 30 % of their time , we can deport they back to where they come from . that is , of course , where Kebatu should be and what he should experience over the course of the next few day . the breakout from prison of Hadush Kebatu sound less like " the Great Escape " and more like " Fawlty Towers " . it have help bring to light that 262 prisoner be release by mistake last year and 115 the year before . on mistaken release , what assurance can the Justice Secretary offer that the responsible contractor or subcontractor will be subject to the sort of financial penalty that motivate they to prevent further mistake from happen ? I be not sure in this circumstance that this be subcontract . the hon . Member will understand that when we look at the 56 , 000 or so prisoner who be release from prison , many be be release into the hand of probation and ask to report to a probation office . some be release for time serve . there be housing and employment assessment need . many be tag at home . he be right on what be behind his question . for some reason , Kebatu find himself in the wrong stream because for foreign national offender , it be an immigration removal centre and it be off on a plane , and that be what should have happen . I welcome the fact that Dame Lynne Owens will be speak to the victim of Kebatu to understand the impact on they , but will the Deputy Prime Minister confirm whether the previous Government make any step to speak with victim affect by prison release error that happen on their watch due to the system be starve of funding ? there be many case of early prisoner release . as I say before , whether it be William Fernandez in March 2021 , Rayon Newby in March 2023 or Lauras Matiusovas in December 2021 , there be no independent investigation under the last government . very little be say or , it would seem , learn even though 800 prisoner be release early . this story go back a long way . it be in part because of the scheme set up under the last government , which be revise four time in the run - up to the general election , and it be why we must take a thorough look and reassure the public . the Justice Secretary will know that police operational independence , free from political interference , be crucial and be enshrine in the police protocol . yet , on page three of the statement which the Secretary of State just give , he tell we — I check against delivery — that over the weekend he " chair three operational meeting with the police " . what have change ? the hon . Gentleman have tremendous experience in this Chamber , and I think he would think it be extremely lackadaisical if the Justice Secretary do not seek an operational update from the police over the course of the weekend , when this be at the top of the news cycle and of huge anxiety . of course , operational matter be for the police , but I be hugely grateful , as I say to Mark Rowley this morning , and I be very pleased that local officer in the London borough of Haringey be able to detain Kebatu , which be why I go up to Wood Green to thank they personally for what they have do . the erroneous release of this individual be an appalling error . I be grateful that he have be catch and that the Justice Secretary will take step to get to the bottom of what go wrong in this case . I will be grateful if he come back to the House in due course to report on his finding . when they start last year , this Government inherit an appalling situation in respect of the prison estate , with prison fit to burst and short of staff . perhaps that be why the general election come when it do , rather than in the autumn , because there would have have to have be a prisoner release scheme under the previous Government later that year . I be sick of people come to my constituency surgery who have be victim of crime but feel that justice be not be do . I urge my right hon . friend to redouble his effort to build up the number of prison place , but also to take step to ensure that , certainly at low level of crime , people do not get into crime in the first place , because that be how we will save money in the long run . my hon . friend be right to mention the end of the early supervise licence scheme that be set up by the last Government and revise four time , and under which 10 , 000 people be release . it be effectively do on the quiet , in a chaotic way , and that be when we begin to see the spike . it be not about make partisan or political point , but the truth be that we all know that the prison system that we inherit be in a dire situation . we now need to get a grip where mistake be be make , which be why the officer involve have be suspend under investigation , the check and balance in place be now the tough we have have , we be ask duty governor to look at case the night before , particularly in relation to foreign national offender , and we have Dame Lynne Owens do a further investigation . I put on the record my role as the co - chair of the justice union parliamentary group . everyone here will want to make sure that this kind of outrageous error never happen again . the chief inspector of prison warn today of a " systematic problem " of increase release in error , cite " very busy people , often quite inexperienced , with huge caseload " . he also warn that prison be dependent on west african officer whom we might now lose thank to the change to visa threshold that be expect to cause " an enormously damaging effect " on some prison . with that in mind — because the Government have control over it — will the Justice Secretary press the Home Office to look again at how change to the skilled worker visa be directly cause prison staff shortage and worsen prison performance ? I be grateful to the right hon . Lady for put on the record the challenge we have with junior staff . I be very grateful for the work in our prison system of those staff , who be much beloved , who have come from west Africa , largely Nigeria , to support the system for a period of time . I recognise the challenge that the right hon . Lady articulate and , of course , as she would expect , all such matter be under discussion . I thank my right hon . friend for his statement , and I thank the hon . member for Epping Forest ( Dr Hudson ) for start his question with a recognition that the situation really affect the victim of this terrible crime . we all need to recognise the devastating effect on the family and those who be victim of crime when the person who commit those crime be release in this way . what reassurance can my right hon . friend give to resident in my constituency that this Government will finally get on the front foot when it come to this issue and tackle it ? I begin by congratulate my hon . friend ; he have just return from paternity leave . I know his constituency of Harlow very well — I think it have one of the high proportion of Spurs supporter in the country — and I know that folk will have take this very seriously . I want to reassure they that we have ask one of our good senior police officer to lead the review , and we have put in place immediate check in the system that be the tough that have ever be in place for release . of course the officer involve have have to be suspend pende that full investigation , and the Prison Service itself have immediately begin its own investigation and will report to I later this week . Mr Kebatu come to this country by small boat , allegedly because he be seek asylum against oppression in Ethiopia . at his trial , however , he change his mind and decide he would rather be back in Ethiopia . what bother I about the state of our immigration system be that if , after he have be punish in Ethiopia , he hop on another small boat and come back again and say that he be seek asylum because , as a result of his conviction for sexual crime , he face disapproval and possibly persecution in Ethiopia , we would have to go through this farce all over again , wouldn ' t we ? I recognise the concern that may well be on the mind of the right hon . Gentleman ' s constituent , and indeed mine , but the biometric system that we have in place should alleviate that of course . the right hon . Gentleman be right that Mr Kebatu say in the trial that he want to go back to Ethiopia , and that be where he now belong . the Secretary of State rightly talk about prison reel from historic funding and staffing cut , yet he admit that other current Ministers have add to this problem by change the visa rule in July , which will force many overseas prison officer out of the country . he just call they " much beloved " staff and just say that he recognise the challenge , so will he confirm that he have ask the Home Secretary to look again at her visa change for these prison officer ? it be my job to ensure that we have the right amount of prison officer in the system and that they be support to do their job . of course the hon . Lady would expect that that be a no . 1 priority for the Department : the right number of prison officer to do the job , recognise that many of they now have little experience as a result of the change that be make under the last government , but also the right number of probation staff , and we be do both . Kebatu ' s accidental release be beyond belief ; it be a national embarrassment . but what I have find really disturbing have be sit here on the Back Benches watch the Justice Secretary laugh at some of the response . I find that wholly unpalatable and be leave wonder what the victim must be think . when will he resign ? I have a lot of respect for the right hon . Lady . I just remind she that I be not sure that the shadow Justice Secretary mention the victim once in his contribution this afternoon . I think we all know that it be the notoriety of the Kebatu case which have bring the Justice Secretary to the House today , but we also know that there be 262 such wrongful release in 2024 - 25 . how many independent investigation be hold into any of those and with what result , and how have we get to the point where , on average , we have five wrongful release per week ? Shouldn ' t action have be take long ago ? I agree that action should have be take long ago when this story begin under the last government . that action be begin now . the fundamental responsibility of any Government be to keep their citizen safe , but — from the mistaken release of a dangerous foreign sex offender to scrap future prison sentence for over half of offender — which side be labour on ? be it on the side of the hard - work , law - abide british public , or the criminal who target and exploit they ? after the horrific legacy leave by the last government , I think that the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent will be pleased that we be increase the number of prison place , that we be reverse some of the cut make under last government , that the Sentencing Bill be pass through Parliament and that we have come forward with a court Bill . those measure be all to deal with the chaos that we inherit in our justice system . I have get to tell the hon . gentleman : his question be really rich when it be his party that cut 20 , 000 police officer in our country . may I say to the Justice Secretary that refer to the last Government ' s record be wear a bit thin ? this government have be in power for over 12 month , so what he say be not go to wash with the british public . may I also say to he that I think he do his calm well than he do his livid ? in response to my hon . friend the Member for North Dorset ( Simon Hoare ) , I think he paraphrase his own statement , but his statement clearly say : " over the weekend , I chair three operational meeting with the police . " hon . member will know that we can attend strategy meeting , but we never interfere with operational matter . the House , member of the public and police officer deserve clarity about that . he also say : " member will be aware that there be national security consideration within a case like this . " we be talk about a criminal conviction make in open court , so what be those national security implication ? finally — so he know that I have not be too tough on he today — I commend his decision to appoint Dame Lynne Owens ; she be a first - class public servant . despite the nature of the right hon . Gentleman ' s question , he and I be actually friend . I think it be important that the police be able to give I an operational update , and I thank the Metropolitan police , Essex police and the British Transport police for their work , which I be sure his constituent value . I be sorry that he do not want I to mention the record of the last government , but I have a feeling that when he be sit on the Government Benches , he be hugely disappointed with their record on crime and on the justice system . as the House will be aware , I be once an Epping Forest district councillor and an Essex county councillor , so I know both Epping and Chelmsford . give the high - profile nature of this case , public confidence be at an all - time low . do the Justice Secretary consider his position ? if not , why not ? I really think that be a ridiculous question . the hon . Gentleman know that the answer be no . what I consider carefully be what my predecessor be up to in the last Government to allow the spike and do nothing about it . when I look at the case — particularly the case involve someone who be let out and go on to commit a sexual assault — I wonder why no independent investigation be set up then . as the Justice Secretary admit , there be a staffing crisis in our prison that his Government inherit from the brass - neck Tories . over a third of prison officer now have less than two year ' experience . with too many officer leave the profession and too few join , be it any wonder that mistake like this happen increasingly frequently ? while the Ministry of Justice have seek to address the prison officer shortfall by recruit overseas , the Home Office , as we have hear , be undermine those action by raise the payment threshold for the skilled worker visa . I have a simple question . be the Justice Secretary ask the Home Office to add prison officer to the skill shortage list — yes or no ? as I have say , it be right and proper that the Home Office have a thorough regime for skilled worker , and I support it in that endeavour . it be also important that we have the bank of prison officer that we need , and it be my job to ensure that we have that , whether they be able to come from abroad or — as the vast majority do — from our own country . there be almost a dozen page in the statement and the Secretary of State have take question for almost an hour , but there be one word that I have not hear : " sorry " . that be really important , particularly for the 14 - year - old victim and her father . the Justice Secretary have say a number of time that he have personally reach out and thank the police . have he personally reach out to the victim ? have he try to speak to they ? have he try to say sorry ? of course I be sorry — sorry that any victim of crime have the anxious weekend that they have . it be important for I to ensure that police liaison be in touch with they , and I be grateful to Essex police for do that . it be also important to I that Lynne Owens be able to speak to they so that their concern be reflect in her full and final report . how many of those release in error under this Labour Government be still at large ? as the hon . Lady would expect , a number of people be release under different regime : some will be release at home and will , hopefully , lead productive life ; other will be back in prison ; and some be recall under licence . all that will be examine by the independent , full investigation . the fact of the matter be that some 262 prisoner be free in error in the year to March , which be almost an epidemic . that be compare with 115 in the previous year — a increase of 128 % , accord to datum from the Ministry of Justice . the Justice Secretary know that I have absolute respect for he , but do he accept that this be absolutely shameful ? it exemplify the change need in our justice system : to restore justice , and to remind people that the penalty for crime be to lose their way of life and their right . those who commit crime should not simply to be place in a hold cell to tap their finger and wait while serve a fraction of their sentence , hope that they be one of the grow number simply to be send home without be rehabilitate ; rather , they should be detain in the system . I associate myself with all the remark make by the hon . gentleman . he be completely right ; this be totally , totally unacceptable . People who commit crime deserve to be punish . I think the public also want they to be rehabilitate — it have get to be punishment that work — and to be release in an appropriate fashion into the community or send back to their country in the appropriate way . we have to ensure that the system get that right every single time . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . on Saturday , the hon . member for Runcorn and Helsby ( Sarah Pochin ) say : " it drive I mad when I see advert full of black people , full of asian people " . the hon . Member also say : " it doesn ' t reflect our society " . as the MP for Brent East , one of the most diverse constituency in the UK , let I say that you can be black or brown and be british , so I be completely offend by that comment . it be a racist comment . Madam Deputy Speaker , can you imagine the constituent of that MP go to see she , know that she be a racist ? these comment appear to be in breach of the MPs ' code of conduct , in particular the seven principle of public life — order . can the hon . Lady please reflect on her language and withdraw the remark about another hon . member in this place ? Madam Deputy Speaker , the comment that I refer to be absolutely a racist comment . can we not call out that comment in this House ? it be in breach of the nolan principle for mps . I want to know if you can help I in ensure that — order . for clarity ' s sake , the issue be the calling of a Member of this House a racist . Madam Deputy Speaker , let I just quote again what the hon . member for Runcorn and Helsby say : " it drive I mad when I see advert full of black people , full of asian people … it doesn ' t reflect our society " . Madam Deputy Speaker , that be a racist comment , and it be against the nolan principle . how can we ensure that Members of Parliament — order . it be not about the comment that the hon . Member be refer to ; it be the fact that she call the Member in question a racist that be an issue . can she please reflect on her remark , in which she have call a Member of this House a racist , and stick to the comment be racist instead ? it may be that the hon . Member consider that to be dance on the head of a pin , but it be important that we all act with respect and set an example to the country . this be give I d é j à vu . I appreciate that in this House , we be not suppose to be disrespectful and call member of Parliament what they actually be . ultimately , the comment be a racist comment . it be quite strange that I be unable to call out the Member for be a racist , after she have make a racist comment . order . I be have to say this time and again — can you please consider withdraw the comment about a Member of this House be a racist ? Madam Deputy Speaker , I do not want to be throw out of Parliament — again — so I will withdraw the fact that I be refer to the Member of Parliament as a racist because of her racist comment . have the hon . Member inform the hon . member for Runcorn and Helsby that she intend to refer to she in the Chamber ? I have . the Chair be not responsible for comment make by individual member outside of this place . if the hon . Member consider that there have be a breach of the code of conduct , the proper procedure be to complain to the Parliamentary Commissioner for Standards . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . my point of order relate to the same person , but it be a different point . I rise to raise a matter of both parliamentary courtesy and political accountability . I have be inform that last week , the hon . member for Runcorn and Helsby ( Sarah Pochin ) hold a political meeting in my constituency without give I any prior notification . I have inform the hon . member that I would be raise this as a point of order . although there be no formal rule prevent member from visit other constituency , it be a fundamental convention of this House that mps respect the local representation of their colleague and notify they before seek to engage with their constituent . they know that they be not welcome — come into my constituency , stir up hate and division . to ignore this convention of the House be discourteous ; to do so in a city like mine , with a very long and proud history of diversity , be politically provocative . I call on the House to recognise that such action undermine the norm of mutual respect between member and disregard the right of constituent to be represent by their elect MP . the people of Liverpool Riverside do not welcome this opportunistic political activity . Madam Deputy Speaker , do you agree that this matter require urgent attention , and can you reaffirm the principle that parliamentary convention and respect for local representation must be uphold by all member ? I thank the hon . member for her point of order , and for confirm that she notify the hon . member for Runcorn and Helsby in advance of make it . Mr Speaker have always be clear that member intend to visit a colleague ' s constituency , except for purely private purpose , must inform that colleague in advance . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . the hon . member for Brent East ( Dawn Butler ) be absolutely right to draw the attention of the House to the nolan principle of public life . keep a weather eye on those principle fall within the auspex of my Select Committee , the Public Administration and Constitutional Affairs Committee , and of course this year be an important anniversary of the nolan principle . give the fact that it be an important anniversary , and give that the Government have pull together a whole variety of propriety and ethic under one body , might it now be appropriate for the authority of this place to reissue those principle to all member , and to re - emphasise that they be as enduring and relevant today as they be when Lord Nolan first pen they and that if we all abide by they fully all the time , political and public life might be a little well ? I thank the hon . member for his point of order . it be a very interesting idea . the principle be set out in the code of conduct , but I will ensure that Mr Speaker be aware of his comment . Royal Assent I have to notify the House , in accordance with the Royal Assent Act 1967 , that his Majesty have signify his Royal Assent to the follow act : Bus Services Act 2025 Deprivation of Citizenship Orders ( effect during Appeal ) Act 2025 Renters ’ Rights Act 2025 Absent Voting ( election in Scotland and Wales ) Bill 2025 General Cemetery Act 2025 . victim and Courts Bill consideration of Bill , as amend in the Public Bill Committee New Clause 13 - Victims ' right to make disclosure relate to criminal conduct " for section 17 of the Victims and Prisoners Act 2024 ( disclosure by victim that can not be preclude by agreement ) substitute — " 17 Disclosures by victim that can not be preclude by agreement ( 1 ) any provision in an agreement be void in so far as it purport to preclude a victim , or a person who reasonably believe they be a victim , from make — ( a ) an allegation of , or a disclosure of information relate to , relevant criminal conduct , or ( b ) an allegation , or a disclosure of information , relate to the response of any other party to the agreement to — ( i ) relevant criminal conduct , or ( ii ) the making of an allegation or disclosure within paragraph ( a ) . ( 2 ) subsection ( 1 ) do not apply to provision in an agreement ( an " excepted agreement " ) that satisfy such condition as the Secretary of State may specify by regulation . ( 3 ) but the Secretary of State may by regulation provide that any provision in an excepted agreement be void in so far as it purport to preclude the victim , or the person who reasonably believe they be a victim , from make an allegation or disclosure within subsection ( 1 ) ( a ) or ( b ) — ( a ) to a specified description of person ; ( b ) for a specify purpose ; ( c ) in specify circumstance . ( 4 ) nothing in this section affect the operation of any other enactment or rule of law by virtue of which provision in an agreement may be void . ( 5 ) subject to subsection ( 6 ) , ( 7 ) and ( 8 ) , this section bind the Crown . ( 6 ) this section do not apply to provision in an agreement enter into by his Majesty in his private capacity ( within the meaning of the Crown Proceedings Act 1947 ) . ( 7 ) this section do not apply to provision in an agreement enter into by the Crown for the purpose of — ( a ) the Security Service ; ( b ) the Secret Intelligence Service ; ( c ) the Government Communications Headquarters . ( 8 ) this section do not apply to provision in an agreement which — ( a ) be between the Crown and a member or former member of the special force , and ( b ) govern the disclosure by the member or former member of any information relate to the work of the special force . ( 9 ) in this section — " relevant criminal conduct " mean conduct by virtue of which the person make the allegation or disclosure be , or reasonably believe they be , a victim ( see section 1 ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) of this Act ) ; " special force " mean those unit of the armed force of the Crown the maintenance of whose capability be the responsibility of the Director of Special Forces or which be for the time be subject to the operational command of that Director ; " specified " mean specify in the regulation . " — ( Alex Davies - Jones . ) this new clause substitute section 17 of the Victims and Prisoners Act 2024 , which allow victim of criminal conduct to make disclosure in connection with that conduct . under the new section 17 , there will be no requirement that disclosure be make to certain person in order to be permit . bring up , and read the first time . I beg to move , that the clause be read a second time . with this it will be convenient to discuss the follow : government new clause 14 — restriction of parental responsibility for child conceive as a result of rape . new clause 1 — child sexual abuse victim and the Criminal Injuries Compensation Scheme — ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must amend the Criminal Injuries Compensation Scheme to — ( a ) widen eligibility for compensation to all victim of child sexual abuse , include online - facilitate sexual abuse ; ( b ) ensure applicant with unspent conviction be not automatically exclude where offence be link to the circumstance of their sexual abuse as a child ; and ( c ) increase the time limit for application for compensation from victim of child sexual abuse to seven year from — ( i ) the date the offence be report to the police ; or ( ii ) the age of 18 , where the offence be report while the victim be a child . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State must lay before Parliament a new draft of the Criminal Injuries Compensation Scheme within six month of this section come into force . " this new clause would widen eligibility for compensation to the Criminal Injuries Compensation Scheme to all victim of child sexual abuse . new clause 2 — sentencing : duty when give custodial sentence to offender who have a child — ( 1 ) at the time of pass a custodial sentence by a judge or magistrate the relevant court must instruct HM Courts and Tribunals Service ( " hmct " ) to determine whether an offender have — ( a ) a dependent child , ( b ) parental responsibility for a child , or ( c ) a child live in their household . ( 2 ) as soon as reasonably practicable after establish whether an offender have responsibility for or contact with a child as under subsection ( 1 ) , hmct must notify the relevant local authority and relevant agency where a child live with such information about the sentence individual as the Secretary of State see fit , which must include — ( a ) offence type , ( b ) sentence length , and ( c ) the offender ' s register home address and date of birth . ( 3 ) in this section — " local authority " have the same meaning as in the Children Act 2004 ( see section 65 ) ; " relevant agency " in relation to a local authority area in England , mean a person who exercise function in that area in relation to child . " this new clause would introduce a duty on court to ascertain whether an offender have responsibility for , or contact with a child at the time of pass a custodial sentence and for the court to notify relevant local safeguarding team detail of the sentence pass by a judge or magistrate . new clause 4 — victim personal statement — ( 1 ) the Secretary of State shall , within six month of the passing of this Act , issue revise guidance on the content of victim personal statement . ( 2 ) the revised guidance issue under subsection ( 1 ) must stipulate that when make a victim personal statement , a victim shall be able to say anything they wish about the defendant , provide it be not contrary to any statutory limitation on free speech , make allegation of untried criminal conduct or be disorderly language . ( 3 ) the court must disregard any prejudicial comment make during a victim personal statement . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to review how to make victim personal statement less restrictive and clarify what can be include . new clause 5 — duty to collect and publish datum upon sentencing — ( 1 ) at the time of pass a sentence by a judge or magistrate the relevant court must provide to HM Courts and Tribunals Service ( " hmct " ) the follow information regard the sentence pass — ( a ) offence type , ( b ) sentence length , ( c ) such information about the sentence individual as the Secretary of State see fit , which must include — ( i ) nationality , ( ii ) method of entry to the United Kingdom , ( iii ) visa route , ( iv ) visa status , ( v ) asylum status , ( vi ) country of birth , and ( vii ) biological sex . ( 2 ) hmct must collect and collate the information on the basis set out in subsection ( 1 ) on sentence pass in the court . ( 3 ) once every three month , the Secretary of State must publish statistic base on the information collect by hmct under subsection ( 2 ) . " new clause 6 — court transcript of sentencing remark — ( 1 ) all sentencing remark make in the Crown Court must be publish within two sit day of be deliver . ( 2 ) all publication must be freely available to all member of the public . " new clause 7 — extension of Victim Contact Scheme — ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must ensure that the Victim Contact Scheme be make available to — ( a ) victim of offender sentence to less than 12 month for violent and sexual offence , ( b ) victim in case involve coercive or control behaviour , stalk , or harassment , and ( c ) bereaved family in manslaughter or death by dangerous driving case . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State must ensure that information under the Victim Contact Scheme be communicate in a timely and trauma - inform manner . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State must publish datum each year on uptake and accessibility of the Victim Contact Scheme . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to extend the Victim Contact Scheme to certain category of victim . it would also ensure information be provide in a timely , trauma - inform way and require annual reporting on the Scheme ' s uptake and accessibility . new clause 8 — access to free court transcript for victim — ( 1 ) victim of criminal offence shall be entitle to receive , without charge , court transcript of — ( a ) sentencing remark , ( b ) judicial summing - up , ( c ) bail decision and condition relevant to their case . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State must ensure that such transcript be provide within 14 day of a request . ( 3 ) the duty under subsection ( 1 ) shall apply irrespective of whether the victim give evidence in the case . " this new clause would give victim a right to receive , free of charge , court transcript of sentencing remark , judicial summing - up , and bail decision relevant to their case . it require that transcript be provide within 14 day of a request and clarifie that this right apply whether or not the victim give evidence in the case . new clause 9 — victim of online and technology - enable crime — ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within six month of the passing of this Act , commission the Victims ' commissioner to undertake a review of the support provide to victim of online or technology - enable offence include , but not limit to — ( a ) harassment and threat ; ( b ) deepfake image generation ; and ( c ) the premeditated filming and online sharing of violent attack where the intent be to humiliate or cause distress . ( 2 ) the review should consider the effectiveness of — ( a ) the Code of Practice for Victims of Crime in England and Wales ; ( b ) any guidance on the treatment of victim in the criminal justice system ; and ( c ) support provide to victim by the criminal justice agency . ( 3 ) the Victims ' Commissioner must publish a report make recommendation to the Secretary of State within 12 month of the start of the review . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to undertake and publish a review of the support provide to victim of online or technology - enable offence . new clause 10 — duty to commission support service for victim of abuse and exploitation — ( 1 ) this section apply in respect of victim of offence relate to — ( a ) domestic abuse , ( b ) sexual violence , or ( c ) child criminal exploitation . ( 2 ) it be the duty of relevant authority to commission sufficient and specific service for victim under subsection ( 1 ) in accordance with the Victims Code of Practice for England and Wales . ( 3 ) victim be define as outline in Section 1 of the Victims and Prisoners Act 2024 . ( 4 ) the service commission and provide for under subsection ( 2 ) must include , but be not limit to — ( a ) specialist service for adult victim of domestic abuse and sexual violence , ( b ) specialist service for child victim of exploitation , sexual abuse and domestic abuse , ( c ) specialist advocacy and community - base service for victim with specific need include ( but not limit to ) — ( i ) child victim , ( ii ) Deaf and disabled victim , ( iii ) black and minoritise victim , and ( iv ) LGBTQ + victim , in compliance with the Public Sector Equality Duty . ( 5 ) in this section — " child criminal exploitation " have the meaning give in the Crime and Policing Act 2025 ; " relevant authority " have the meaning give in section 13 of the Victims and Prisoners Act 2025 . " new clause 11 — duty to commission support service for caregiver of victim of abuse and exploitation — ( 1 ) this section apply in respect of victim of offence relate to — ( a ) domestic abuse , ( b ) sexual violence , or ( c ) child criminal exploitation , where the victim — ( i ) at the time of the offence , be under the age of 18 , or ( ii ) be an adult at risk of harm . ( 2 ) it be the duty of relevant authority to commission sufficient and specific service for the parent , guardian or person who have responsibility for the victim under subsection ( 1 ) for the purpose of secure the right of the victim under the Victims Code of Practice for England and Wales . ( 3 ) victim be define as outline in Section 1 of the Victims and Prisoners Act 2024 . ( 4 ) the service commission and provide under subsection ( 2 ) must be — ( a ) appropriate to the need of the caregiver in support the victim , ( b ) trauma - inform and culturally competent , and ( c ) accessible without unreasonable delay or procedural burden . ( 5 ) in exercise their duty under this section , relevant authority must have regard to guidance issue by the Secretary of State . ( 6 ) the Secretary of State must publish such guidance within six month of the passing of this Act , follow consultation with relevant stakeholder include — ( a ) victim support organisation , ( b ) organisation represent child and vulnerable adult , and ( c ) person with live - experience of the effect of sexual or violent offence . ( 7 ) in this section — " child criminal exploitation " have the meaning give in the Crime and Policing Act 2025 , " adult at risk of harm " mean a person age 18 or over who — ( a ) have need for care and support , ( b ) be experience , or be at risk of , abuse or neglect , and ( c ) as a result of those need be unable to protect themselves against the abuse or neglect or the risk of it , and " relevant authority " have the meaning give in section 13 of the Victims and Prisoners Act 2025 . " new clause 12 — application of the Victims ' Code in respect of victim of murder , manslaughter or infanticide abroad — ( 1 ) the Victims and Prisoners Act 2024 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) after section 2 , insert — " 2A Application of the victim ' code in respect of victim of murder , manslaughter or infanticide abroad ( 1 ) this section apply in respect of victim as define under section 1 ( 2 ) ( c ) who be a close relative of a british National resident in England and Wales , who be the victim of — ( a ) murder ; ( b ) manslaughter ; or ( c ) infanticide , commit outside the UK . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State must by regulation issue an appendix to the victim ' code , set out how the code apply to victim in the circumstance set out in subsection ( 1 ) . ( 3 ) the appendix must set out the service to be provide to victim as define under subsection ( 1 ) by those person base in England and Wales appear to the Secretary of State to have function of a public nature relate to — ( a ) victim , or ( b ) any aspect of the criminal justice system . ( 4 ) the appendix must make provision for service base in England and Wales which reflect the principle that victim require — ( a ) information to help they understand the criminal justice process ; ( b ) access to service within England and Wales which provide they with emotional and practical support ( include , where appropriate , specialist service ) ; ( c ) in circumstance where the criminal justice process be engage in England and Wales , the opportunity to make their view hear in the criminal justice process ; and ( d ) the ability to challenge decision which have a direct impact on they . ( 5 ) in set out the service to be provide to victim under this section , the Secretary of State must specify the following : ( a ) how such service will be provide with accessible information ; ( b ) how they access emotional and practical support . " " this new clause require the Secretary of State to create an appendix to the Victims ' code which outline how the code apply to victim whose close relative be the victim of murder , manslaughter or infanticide outside the UK . new clause 15 — right to referral to restorative justice service — ( 1 ) a victim of an offence have the right , at any stage follow the commission of the offence , to receive from a relevant criminal justice body — ( a ) information about the availability and purpose of restorative justice service ; and ( b ) a meaningful referral to restorative justice service , where those service be available . ( 2 ) a referral under subsection ( 1 ) must be make — ( a ) as soon as be reasonably practicable after the offender be identify ; and ( b ) at subsequent appropriate stage of the criminal justice process ( include pre - charge , post - charge , and post - conviction ) or if request by the victim . ( 3 ) in exercise the right under this section , a victim must at all time give inform consent , and participation in any restorative justice process shall be voluntary . ( 4 ) a relevant criminal justice body must maintain a record ( in such form as may be prescribe by regulation ) of — ( a ) the time when referral under subsection ( 1 ) be make ; and ( b ) statistical information on how many victim accept , decline , or do not respond to referral . ( 5 ) for the purpose of this section , " relevant criminal justice body " include ( but be not limit to ) the — ( a ) police ; ( b ) Crown Prosecution Service ; ( c ) his Majesty ' s Prison and Probation Service ; ( d ) court ; and ( e ) commission victim service provider . ( 6 ) the victim ' code must include provision consistent with this section for — ( a ) the form , timing , and content of information to be give to victim about restorative justice ; ( b ) mechanism and standard for referral and re - referral ; and ( c ) oversight and review of compliance with this section . ( 7 ) in this section " restorative justice service " mean service facilitate a process through which a victim and offender ( or their representative ) may , with appropriate support , voluntarily engage to deal with the harm arise from the offence by mean of a facilitated dialogue or meeting such as conferencing , or indirect exchange of communication via train practitioner . " this new clause seek to strengthen victim ' statutory right to access restorative justice service . new clause 16 — duty to report on the use of restorative justice service — ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within a year of the passing of this Act , undertake an assessment of the use of restorative justice service by victim in England and Wales . ( 2 ) the assessment under subsection ( 1 ) must consider — ( a ) the level of use of restorative justice service ; ( b ) recommendation for increase the use of restorative justice service ; and ( c ) any other matter that the Secretary of State deem appropriate . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State must lay a copy of the assessment before Parliament . ( 4 ) in this section " restorative justice service " mean service facilitate a process through which a victim and offender ( or their representative ) may , with appropriate support , voluntarily engage to deal with the harm arise from the offence by mean such as mediation , conferencing , or reparation , under standard of safety and fairness . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to carry out an assessment of the level of use of restorative justice service , and make recommendation for increase their use . new clause 17 — the Victims ' code : right to veto licence condition relate to an offender ' s release — the Secretary of State must , within 3 month of the passing of this Act , revise the Victims ' code to ensure that a victim of a serious or violent offence have a right of veto over licence condition relate to the release of an offender from prison , include temporary release , which fail to reasonably prevent an offender travel to specific location and provide adequate protection to the victim . " this new clause give victim of a serious or violent offence a right of veto over licence condition relate to the release of an offender from prison . new clause 18 — victim navigator — ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , with six month of the passing of this Act , make provision for each police force in England and Wales to have access to one or more independent victim navigator . ( 2 ) the purpose of an independent victim navigator under subsection ( 1 ) be to — ( a ) liaise between the police force and potential victim of offence relate to slavery or human trafficking ; and ( b ) assist in the provision of specialist advice for either the police force or the potential victim . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation provide further guidance on the function of independent victim navigator . ( 4 ) regulation under this section shall be make by statutory instrument , and may not be make unless a draft have be lay before and approve by resolution of each House of Parliament . " this new clause seek to introduce provision for Independent Victim Navigators to be in operation on a national level in England and Wales , act as a liaison between the police and potential victim of slavery or human trafficking in access the appropriate support . new clause 19 — requirement for Strategic Planning and Funding of Victim Support Services — ( 1 ) each local authority and relevant authority must prepare and maintain a victim support strategy set out how they will meet the need of individual affect by — ( a ) offence relate to domestic or family - relate abuse , ( b ) sexual offence , and ( c ) offence relate to child criminal exploitation , in accordance with their right under the victim ' code . ( 2 ) strategy prepare under subsection ( 1 ) must include — ( a ) identification of gap in exist service , ( b ) specific plan to fund and deliver service for adult and child , ( c ) measure to ensure accessibility for victim with particular need , include ( but not limit to ) those who be disabled , deaf , from racially minoritise community , or LGBTQ + . ( 3 ) any body subject to a duty under subsection ( 1 ) must report annually to the Secretary of State on progress in implement their victim support strategy , include outcome for service user . ( 4 ) for the purpose of this section — " victim " have the meaning give in section 1 of the Victims and Prisoners Act 2024 ; " child criminal exploitation " have the meaning give in the Crime and Policing Act 2025 ; and " relevant authority " have the meaning give in section 13 of the Victims and Prisoners Act 2025 . " this new clause would require local authority and other relevant body to prepare victim support strategy for meet the need of victim of offence relate to domestic or family - relate abuse , sexual offence , or child criminal exploitation . new clause 20 — duty to report on availability of support service for carer of victim — ( 1 ) relevant authority must prepare an annual report on the availability , accessibility , and adequacy of support service for carer of victim affect by — ( a ) offence relate to domestic or family - relate abuse , ( b ) sexual offence , and ( c ) offence relate to child criminal exploitation , provide for the purpose of secure the right of the victim under the victim ' code . ( 2 ) a report produce under subsection ( 1 ) must include — ( a ) an assessment of gap in exist service for carer , ( b ) the type of support available , include emotional , practical , and advocacy service , ( c ) measure in place to ensure accessibility for carer with specific need , include those who be disabled , blind , deaf , from racially minoritise community , or LGBTQ + , and ( d ) plan action to improve service provision where gap be identify . ( 3 ) relevant authority with a duty under subsection ( 1 ) must publish the report and submit a copy to the Secretary of State no later than six month after the end of each financial year . ( 4 ) for the purpose of this section — " carer " mean any individual provide unpaid support to a victim as define in section 1 of the Victims and Prisoners Act 2024 , " child criminal exploitation " have the meaning give in the Crime and Policing Act 2025 , and " relevant authority " have the meaning give in section 13 of the Victims and Prisoners Act 2025 . " this new clause would require relevant authority to prepare an annual report on the availability , accessibility , and adequacy of support service for carer of individual victim affect by offence relate to domestic or family - relate abuse , sexual offence , or child criminal exploitation . new clause 21 — Duty of the Secretary of State to make a statement follow publication of review or report relate to the experience of victim in the criminal justice system — ( 1 ) this section apply where any review , report , or inquiry — ( a ) be commission , conduct , or sponsor ( in whole or in part ) by the Secretary of State or the Victims ' Commissioner , and ( b ) relate to the experience of victim in the criminal justice system . ( 2 ) within two week of the date of publication , the Secretary of State must make a statement to both Houses of Parliament set out — ( a ) the principal finding and recommendation of the review , report , or inquiry , and ( b ) the Government ' s initial response , include any intend action or further consideration to be undertake . ( 3 ) the statement under subsection ( 2 ) must be make by oral statement unless exceptional circumstance make a write ministerial statement more appropriate . ( 4 ) for the purpose of this section a review , report , or inquiry may be statutory or non - statutory . ( 5 ) the Secretary of State must publish guidance on the operation of this section within three month of the passing of this Act . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State for Justice to make a statement to Parliament within two week of the publication of any review , report , or inquiry relate to the experience of victim in the criminal justice system , include those commission or conduct by the Victims ' Commissioner . the statement must summarise the finding and set out the Government ' s initial response . amendment 8 , in clause 3 , page 6 , leave out line 1 and 2 and insert " for a serious sexual offence commit against a child . " this amendment would extend the provision of restrict parental responsibility where a parent be sentence for a serious sexual offence commit against a child , regardless of whether it be their child or on the length of sentence hand down . amendment 1 , page 6 , line 1 , leave out " of 4 year or more " . this amendment would ensure that where a person be send to prison because of a sexual offence the court would be under a duty to make a prohibit step order . government amendment 10 . amendment 2 , page 6 , line 2 , leave out " for whom the offender have parental responsibility . " this amendment would ensure the court be under a duty to make a prohibit step order where anyone be send to prison because of a sexual offence against a child , whether or not that child be one for which they have parental responsibility . amendment 3 , page 6 , line 20 , leave out from " section " to end of line 25 and insert — " cease to have effect if the offender be acquit of the offence on appeal . ( 5A ) a prohibit step order make under this section do not cease to have effect if the sentence be reduce , on appeal , so that it be no long a life sentence or a term of imprisonment or detention of 4 year or more . " this amendment would ensure that a prohibit step order would cease to have effect if the offender be acquit of the offence on appeal . it would also require that a prohibit step order remain in effect where a sentence be reduce on appeal so that it be no long a life sentence or a term of imprisonment or detention of four year or more . government amendment 11 to 21 . amendment 4 , in clause 11 , page 12 , line 21 , at end insert — " ( aa ) in that sub - paragraph omit " 28 " and insert " 56 " " this amendment increase the window for apply to the Unduly Lenient Sentences Scheme from 28 day to 56 day . amendment 5 , page 12 , line 23 , after " ( 2 ) " insert — " unless an application be make by a victim , or their deceased victim ' s next of kin , in which case notice of an application shall be give within one year . " this amendment increase the window for apply to the Unduly Lenient Sentences Scheme to one year for a victim of a crime or a deceased victim ' s next of kin . Amendment 6 , page 12 , line 29 , leave out " 28 " and insert " 56 " . this amendment be contingent on Amendment 4 . amendment 7 , page 12 , line 39 , at end insert — " ( 5 ) in accordance with the provision under sub - paragraph ( 1 ) the Crown Prosecution Service must write to the victim , or a deceased victim ' s next of kin , within 10 work day of the sentence be deliver to make they aware of their ability to apply for a review of sentencing . " this amendment be contingent on Amendment 5 . it would require the CPS to write to a victim , or a deceased victim ' s next of kin , within 10 work day of a sentence be deliver to make they aware of their ability to apply for a review . it be truly an honour to open this debate and to bring the Victims and Courts Bill before the House . this Bill be about people — victim who have suffer unimaginable trauma and their family — and ensure that they receive justice . it be about restore faith in a justice system that can often feel cold and confusing , and it deliver on this Government ' s drive mission for safe street , make sure that victim be support , that offender be hold to account , and that justice be deliver swiftly and fairly . the deep - root issue in our criminal justice system need no repeating here . the House know that the system require large - scale reform after year of neglect . there be a long road ahead , but this Bill take an important step forward . at its core be victim ' experience . this government be bring forward real , tangible measure to ensure that victim ' voice be hear , their need be recognise , and their right be respect . the Bill will strengthen our court , improve efficiency and fairness across the system . these be much - need change , and I be deeply grateful to hon . and right hon . member from all part of the House for their time and their insight in consider the measure , and to all the organisation , advocate and survivor who have share their experience and help we shape this legislation . I be sure that the House will therefore join I in pay tribute to the family of Jan Mustafa , Olivia Pratt - Korbel , Zara Aleena and Sabina Nessa , and I welcome to this place Ayse Hussein , Cheryl Korbel and Antonia Elverson , who be in the Public Gallery today . I also thank Jebina Islam , Farah Naz , the Justice for Victims group — which include Susan and Jeremy Everard , Glenn and Becky Youens , Katie Brett , Paula Hudgell and Ayse Hussein — and the Bethan family for their courage and strength in campaign amid immense grief for their love one . three Government amendment on Report will far strengthen the Bill , deliver clear , strong protection for victim , and I will turn to they briefly now . I again thank all those who have work so constructively with I and official in the Ministry of Justice to discuss their issue and concern . new clause 14 and amendment 12 to 21 restrict the exercise of parental responsibility for perpetrator of rape , where their crime have result in the birth of a child . these amendment will protect child , but will also help shield the victim from their perpetrator interfere in their life , because those who commit this horrific crime should clearly never be able to use parental right to control or torment their victim . I take a moment to pay tribute to a woman who I be proud to call my colleague and even prouder to call my friend . many in this House will already have deep admiration for my hon . friend the Member for Bolsover ( Natalie Fleet ) , and I place on record that this change be hers . it be for she , her child and those just like they up and down the country — the people to whom she have dedicate her life to fight tirelessly for . I add my personal admiration for my hon . friend the Member for Bolsover ( Natalie Fleet ) , who have be a fantastic champion for this new clause . her predecessor in the House be call the beast of Bolsover , but I think she be the brave of Bolsover , because every time she speak in this House she be incredibly brave , and I pay tribute to she . I echo those sentiment entirely it have genuinely be my privilege to hear her story , and to work with she to ensure that this measure stop rapist take an active role in a child ' s life when that child be conceive as a result of rape . I can not imagine the enormous complexity that mother such as her face in this situation , and I be in awe of her bravery and that of so many other . this measure will ensure that rapist can not take active step in a child ' s life when that child have be conceive as a result of the crime for which they have be convict . in order to protect as many child as possible , our measure feature a two - track process . when the Crown court be satisfied that a child be conceive as a result of rape , it must make a prohibit step order restrict the offender ' s parental responsibility , unless it be not in the interest of justice to do so . we recognise that rape can occur within an abusive relationship , and that this may make it difficult to prove at a criminal trial that it lead to the child ' s conception . when that be the case , but the court consider that the rape may have lead to the conception of the child , it will refer the matter to the family court via the local authority . this two - track process send a clear message that we will protect all child bear of rape , no matter what the circumstance . the Government recognise the clear risk that serious child sex offender pose to their child , which be why we table amendment 10 , which will expand clause 3 of the Bill . it mean that when someone be sentence to four or more year for serious child sexual abuse , against any child , the court will automatically restrict their parental responsibility . the process will remain the same : at the point when an offender be sentence , the Crown court will be require to make a prohibit step order restrict the offender ' s exercise of parental responsibility for all child for whom they hold it . for offender to be in scope of the amendment , they will have demonstrate that they be unable to protect child and to consider their welfare . that be why it include all serious child sexual abuse offence against all child . unlike the last government ' s plan in the Criminal Justice Bill , this proposal be not limit to offence of child rape . what be more , unlike the last government , this Government will actually deliver on it . we be take this important step today to protect even more child by prevent these individual from take active step in their child ' s life . we have recognise the strength of feeling on this issue , and I be grateful to member — especially my hon . friend the Member for Bolsover , whom I have already mention , but also my hon . friend the Member for Lowestoft ( Jess Asato ) , the right hon . member for Dwyfor Meirionnydd ( Liz Saville Roberts ) , and Baroness Harman . they have be unwavere in their advocacy for the protection of child . safeguard child be of the utmost importance to this Government , and amendment 10 ensure that we be do just that . my hon . friend have just mention some pioneer woman in the House who have campaign on this very issue for a number of year , but today ' s amendment stand on the shoulder of the brave victim and survivor who have speak out for so long . it will correct a historic injustice whereby , while child be protect from convict sex offender and paedophile , their own child be not , through no fault of their own . this government be now take step to ensure that child and their parent be protect from these vile sex offender . my right hon . friend be right . the Bill be a testament to those brave victim and survivor who have speak out about this injustice , and it be this Government who be correct that . my right hon . Friend also say that the amendment stand on the shoulder of brave , brilliant woman in this place who have come before we and be still here , and it be apt for I to pay tribute to she as well , because new clause 13 , concern the misuse of nondisclosure agreement , be a testament to her brilliant campaigning . the Government be very clear about the fact that nda must not be use to silence victim or witness of crime . victim must be free to tell their truth , to seek help , and to warn other . new clause 13 will void nda to the extent that they seek to prevent a victim or a direct witness from speak about criminal conduct to anyone , and for any purpose . it will also protect disclosure about how the other party respond to the conduct or allegation , so that victim be not prevent from share the full context of their experience . it build on the Employment Rights Bill , which address the use of nda in case of workplace harassment and discrimination . it will bind the Crown , but will not apply to a narrow cohort of specify agreement for national security reason . it include regulation - make power to define " excepted nda " , where both party genuinely wish to retain confidentiality , and to ensure that certain disclosure will always be permit . once commence , this measure will replace section 17 of the Victims and Prisoners Act 2024 , which allow limited disclosure to certain body . together with the Employment Rights Bill , we be take the necessary step to ensure that nda can not be misuse to silence victim or obstruct justice . let I now briefly address a number of other concern that have be raise and lead to the tabling of amendment . I will not pre - empt what will be say later today , and I will give member the time to make their case . however , I again thank those in all part of the House for engage with I and set out their concern . new clause 2 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Bristol East ( Kerry McCarthy ) , would place a statutory duty on the Crown court and his Majesty ' s Courts and Tribunals Service to determine whether an offender have parental responsibility for a child follow sentencing . the new clause be well intentione , but it risk create practical difficulty . determine whether a person hold parental responsibility , have dependent child or have child live in their household may require interpretation of family court order , birth record or informal care - give arrangement . these be matter for the family court ; impose such a duty on the Crown court risk delay sentencing . this Government give a manifesto commitment to identify and provide support for child affect by parental imprisonment , and the Ministry of Justice and the Department of Education be work together to determine the good way to deliver on that commitment and ensure that every child get the support that it need . the right hon . member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) and the hon . member for Chichester ( Jess Brown - Fuller ) have table amendment to remove the four - year custodial threshold that apply to clause 3 , and to expand the number of case in which the clause will apply . this be not simply about when parental responsibility should be restrict ; it be about when that restriction should happen automatically . we need to be mindful that this be a very novel proposal . remove the threshold would add a very large number of case to what be an untested approach . More case will also mean more application to the family court , and it be important we do not overwhelm the court and create delay that would put the vulnerable child already in the system at further risk . we want to be sure that there be no adverse consequence for those child and their family who be already in the family court . that be why we have seek to keep these measure narrow , so that we can understand exactly how they be work in practice and what the impact be . as I say on Second Reading and in Committee , this be just the beginning . as part of the implementation of these measure , we will seek to understand how they operate in practice and ensure that there be clear route through the family court for the restriction of the parental responsibility of any perpetrator who do not fall into this category . the right hon . member for Newark have table amendment on the unduly lenient sentencing scheme . Parliament intend the scheme to be an exceptional power , and I recognise the importance of finality in sentencing to avoid ongoing uncertainty for victim , those convict , and society more broadly about the sentence to be serve . however , I also recognise the exceptionally difficult circumstance for victim and their family in make a referral to the Attorney General within the 28 - day limit . the Law Commission be carry out a review of criminal appeal , and hold a public consultation that seek view from a range of individual on reform to the ULS scheme , include extend the time limit and offence in scope . the Government will , of course , carefully consider the review ' s final recommendation , but I can assure Members on both side of the House that I have hear the strength of feeling on the ULS scheme . the amendment that have be table on the matter raise important issue , and I will continue to look at the issue carefully as the Bill progress towards the other place . on that , I make a commitment . the right hon . member for Newark have also table an amendment on victim personal statement , a topic on which I must pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Forest of Dean ( Matt Bishop ) for his dedicated campaigning . victim personal statement can be an incredibly powerful way for victim and their family to tell the court how the crime have impact they , and for the court to directly hear evidence about the harm cause when consider its sentencing of the offender . this be the victim ' s voice in the courtroom . it be important to understand that these statement be evidence submit to the court to assist it in determine sentence . as evidence they be subject to strict rule , which the court apply to ensure that the criminal justice process work fairly and effectively . that be why the content be limit to explain the impact of the crime . this take I back to speak with the family and father of young Violet - Grace , who be kill in 2017 , at four year old , by someone who be go 80 mph in a 30 mph zone and then go missing . during the court case some year later , the family want to read out their victim statement fully in court . the defendant ' s barrister object , and the judge accept that objection . the Crown Prosecution Service barrister give the parent a copy of their victim statement , highlight with everything they could not say . they go out of the courtroom to alter their statement . this be a young couple with a young child . what happen to Violet - Grace , and the impact on her mother ' s life , be just horrendous . the parent go into that court and be make to feel like the criminal . they feel like the defendant . they feel that they be do wrong . they be ask , " what can we say ? what can we not say ? " the father texte I this morning and say , " thank you , Marie . after all these year , I can see some light in the future . we don ' t want other people to suffer this . " I do hope that this measure go through , and that we can get something for this family , who now have another little girl . I thank this Government for get round to it , because Bills and act have be go through , and it have be so terribly traumatic . the whole town feel for the parent . on behalf of Violet - Grace ' s parent , thank you so much . I thank my hon . friend for raise the case of Violet - Grace . she have be a tireless campaigner and supporter of the family for many year . I have have the privilege of meet the Youens family several time and hear directly how they be affect by their experience with their victim impact statement and the limitation place on they as to what they could say in court . it essentially silence they , and mean that their pain be not hear by the perpetrator . I be committed to work with they and the other Families for Justice campaigner . I have have extensive conversation with the hon . member for Bexhill and Battle ( Dr Mullan ) , and with many other hon . member across this House , on look for a way forward to ensure that victim ' voice be well represent in sentencing . we do not need legislation for that . in fact , legislation could potentially make thing bad through retraumatise victim by make they give two separate statement or by limit — even far — in statute the parameter of what can be say . I do not want to limit or silence any victim ; I want to work with they to ensure that there be universality , that there be support for they when complete their victim impact statement , and that the guidance be there so that everyone know exactly what can be say in that impact statement . it be vital that we give victim a voice , and I be determined to achieve that . I know that my hon . friend the Member for Lowestoft will speak to her amendment on place a duty on certain authority to commission specific support service for victim — and caregiver of victim — of abuse and exploitation . again , this measure be well intentione , but we do not agree that it be helpful to place a statutory obligation on certain authority to commission certain support service . the Ministry of Justice already provide grant funding to police and crime commissioner that be use to commission support service for victim of abuse and exploitation . that include ringfence funding for sexual violence and domestic abuse service . it be for the pcc to determine what support be good for their local area . however , I remain committed to work with my hon . friend and other to ensure that victim get the good support . my hon . friend the Member for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) have table an amendment that seek to reform the criminal injury compensation scheme in relation to compensate victim of child sexual abuse . this Government be , of course , absolutely committed to support victim . however , we believe that reform the scheme in a way that benefit only victim of child sexual abuse — or any other single crime type — would undermine its principle of universality . my hon . friend the Member for Rotherham — as well as my hon . friend the Members for Warrington North ( Charlotte Nichols ) and for Birmingham Northfield ( Laurence Turner ) , and all those who attend the Westminster Hall debate early this year — will know the strength of feeling about the criminal injury compensation scheme : it be not work , and it need reform . I be committed to work with they and other , include victim and survivor , to ensure that that reform be not piecemeal and to look at how we can make it the most effective and sustainable scheme , to provide compensation to victim . the hon . member for Maidenhead ( Mr Reynolds ) will no doubt speak to his amendment on support for family bereave by homicide abroad . bereaved family will , in many instance , need support tailor to their case . we have hear that these family need more clarity about that offer from UK agency , what the homicide service even be , and how to access it . that be why we be work with Departments across Government , agency , and the Victims ' commissioner to produce a clear , accessible guide to support family bereave by homicide abroad . I be grateful to the charity murder abroad for work alongside we to ensure that that guidance deliver on its aim , and that we help those family who be stick in limbo . I will close by emphasise again the importance of this Bill . it be a foundation for a well justice system — one that provide even great protection for victim and that deliver swifter and more efficient justice . it will not solve every issue we face overnight , but it be a strong , determined step forward : a signal that this Government stand shoulder to shoulder with victim . again , I sincerely thank member on all side of the House for their engagement with this Bill . we work together in this place , and it be at its good when we come together for the sake of victim and survivor . I look forward to hear the debate and respond to all of the view — I be look forward to a really healthy debate . for now , I commend the Government amendment and new clause to the House . the cornerstone of our justice system should always be the support and protection of victim and survivor — ensure that those who have suffer at the hand of other can go on to live a life without fear , and not be define by the action of those who harm they . that be achieve by put victim ' and survivor ' need at the heart of the justice process , and ensure that justice be serve — and see to be serve — swiftly , through properly fund support . both protection and rehabilitation must also be robust and effective . all of that have underpin many of the issue that victim and survivor currently face — the thing that fill our local surgery appointment and our inboxe , often with harrowing account of system failure that continue to compound their trauma . we recognise that this Labour Government be have to untangle that mess : the court backlog that delay justice ; prison overcrowding ; criminal release on to the street without warn ; and the hollowing out of support service that victim rely on . we in the Liberal Democrats therefore welcome the intention of this Bill , and its many measure aim at ensure that victim be listen to and that their experience in the system improve . in particular , we welcome the measure compelling offender to attend their sentencing hearing . for many victim , that be see justice do — an important aspect of the process — a moment of closure or , for some , the beginning of their recovery . it be something that , more often than not , they have wait far too long to see . offender be see to face the consequence of their action be vital for many victim ’ journey . we also welcome the provision , both in the Bill and in the Government ' s amendment , to restrict parental responsibility in instance of rape or sexual assault against a child , include when a child be conceive after a rape and when an offender have parental responsibility for any child . I give credit to the hon . member for Bolsover ( Natalie Fleet ) for be a tireless advocate for this and for be so brave in share her personal story . that change be something that my hon . friend the Members for North East Hampshire ( Alex Brewer ) and for South Devon ( Caroline Voaden ) also call for in Committee , and it have be a long - stand campaign for family and victim across the country . it be reassure that the Justice Secretary and the Minister for Victims have hear their call , pick this up and make it an important part of the Bill . we be also really pleased to hear about the victim helpline , which could provide valuable support for so many , although we remain concerned about the sufficiency of the resource behind that to make the service genuinely effective . I would appreciate further clarity from the Minister on the resource be make available for the helpline . likewise , the extension of the Victims ' Commissioner ' s power be a constructive move . empower they to work on behalf of victim when a case be in the public interest be important for improve the experience of victim and witness and , most importantly , for learn lesson for the future , which successive government have not be very good at do . we also believe that there be gap in the provision of this Bill that could be improve on . these have form the basis for our amendment , but I be pleased to hear the Minister say that this be not the end of the journey , and we be lay out where we would like to see the Bill go . to that end , new clause 7 seek to extend the victim contact scheme to repair some of the gap in provision . ensure that victim have information about offender , and about how they can apply for licence condition , provide statement to parole hearing and appeal decision , be vital for many victim ' journey after a crime and for their feeling of safety . we therefore believe that the scheme should be extend to victim of offender serve less than 12 month for violent or sexual offence , to victim in case involve coercive or control behaviour , stalking or harassment , and to bereave family in case of manslaughter or death by dangerous driving . new clause 8 would ensure that victim of criminal offence be entitle to free court transcript , which should be universal to ensure transparency and an accessible method of processing court case for all those involve in the criminal justice system , give that so much that happen in a court trial feel like a foreign language to so many access it , who need to process it afterwards . I know that my hon . friend the Member for Richmond Park ( Sarah Olney ) have do exemplary work on this topic and that the issue have support across the House , notably in an amendment table by the Conservatives , despite their decision to ignore it during the decade in which they be in charge of the Ministry of Justice . the roll - out of free court transcript for victim of rape be a welcome step , but it should not be the end of our ambition to ensure that all victim can have this important document follow a trial . new clause 21 would require the Secretary of State for Justice to make a statement to the House within two week of the publication of any review , report or inquiry into the experience of victim , include those produce by the Victims ' Commissioner . when thing go wrong in serious national case where hundred , or perhaps thousand , have be let down by the justice system , it be vital that the country see acknowledgment , apology and action from the relevant authority , include the Government . this new clause would give hon . member from across the country the opportunity to scrutinise the Government ' s response in all instance . new clause 19 would specifically mandate local authority to prepare strategy for victim support , to ensure that there be no postcode lottery in support service relate to domestic abuse , sexual offence and child exploitation . new clause 20 would require relevant authority to prepare an annual report on the availability and adequacy of support service for carer of victim of domestic abuse and sexual assault . these service be essential for victim find pathway to move on from horrific crime . this Bill ' s support for domestic abuse survivor be very welcome , but it be only half the story . in Horsham , one of my constituent arrive at court to see her abus stand trial , only to be tell at the courthouse door that the case have be pull due to a lack of capacity . that trial be delay for two year , by which time her abuser have breach two restraining order . do my hon . friend agree that unless we see concrete measure to improve capacity above and beyond the recent increase in sit day , this Bill can not fulfil its promise to the public ? I thank my hon . friend for highlight the impact that court delay have on victim . I think it be an opinion share across the House that it be totally unacceptable when a victim arrive to have their day in court and then get send away . the reason that we have a lot of legislation come through at the moment be because the Government be try to address the issue from multiple different angle , and I hope to see ambition in this area . I will briefly highlight the work of my hon . friend the Member for Maidenhead ( Mr Reynolds ) , who table new clause 12 . it would require necessary update to the victim code for relative of victim of murder or manslaughter abroad , who currently sit outside the victim code . although this affect around 80 family annually , the toll on they from fall out of scope and receive little to no support , or from not know where to go to get support , be unacceptable . as have be outline , we Liberal Democrats be concern about gap in this Bill and believe that more can be do to support victim and survivor , but we recognise the ambition behind it . we urge the Government to take on board our amendment to well protect victim and survivor . in the interest of time , I will focus only on new clause 2 , which stand in my name , though I also support new clause 1 , 10 and 11 , and I very much welcome Government new clause 14 . I thank the right hon . member for Basildon and Billericay ( Mr Holden ) for originally table new clause 2 . his subsequent elevation to the shadow Cabinet mean that he have have to withdraw his name . on 21 May 2024 , I introduce the Children ( Parental Imprisonment ) Bill — with immaculate timing , as it turn out , as the general election be call the next day . I be delighted that despite the lateness of the hour I manage to have a quick word with somebody from the Leader of the Opposition ' s office , and a commitment to identify and support such child make it into the labour election manifesto . I would rather the commitment in the manifesto have not quite be frame in the way it be , which be about break the cycle of reoffende . that be certainly one factor , but to focus solely on it risk add to the stigma and shame that be often feel by child in this situation . however , the important thing be that the commitment be there . at the time , we do not know how many child have a parent in prison , as most figure be base on out - of - date research or unreliable estimate , but we see the publication of an official estimate 13 day after Labour be elect . I know that we be quick off the mark as a new government , but that work be the result of lot of lobby and campaign that we have manage to get the previous Government to agree to . they set up something call the well Outcomes through linked Data project . through that , we now know that around 190 , 000 child be affect by parental imprisonment each year — a huge number — but that be still only a ballpark figure . it do not tell we where in the country these child be , who be look after they , whether they be get support , what trauma they be go through and , in far too many case , how long they have be cope completely on their own . my Bill call on the Government to set up a statutory mechanism so that at the point when an adult be sentence to imprisonment , effort be make to find out whether they have any child at home , and if so , whether those child be be take care of . that be what new clause 2 also seek to achieve . I have to say that I be a little disappointed by the Minister ' s reply , because it rather miss the point of what we be try to do with this new clause . it have nothing to do with make a judgment about who have parental responsibility or not . the new clause say that the court should look at whether the offender have a dependent child , parental responsibility or a child live in their household . it talk about " responsibility for or contact with " , so there be no legal decision that need to be make as to whether that parent be the sole carer or responsible for the child ; it be about whether there be a child in the picture . I very much believe that the Minister be passionate about this issue , and I know she have meet representative of the excellent charity child Heard and Seen . I know she want to act , but 16 month on from the general election , there be still no timeline for when identification and support will be bring forward for these invisible child . I want to make it very clear that this be about the welfare of child ; it be not about prisoner . there be important work to be do on the rehabilitation of prisoner , and we be fortunate to have an excellent Prisons Minister who totally get that . research have show that maintain family tie for prisoner be very much part of that rehabilitation , but that be not what we be talk about today . I be concern with the welfare of the child and specific child - focus support for those with a family member in prison , regardless of whether they have contact with that parent or not . we should not conflate the two , and I be concerned that the MOJ do so , which be in part because its responsibility and funding stream be all focus on prison and prisoner , whereas in the Department for Education there be a risk that these child get lose in the mix among other child who be suffer adverse childhood experience . in their response to I , Ministers have highlight the " Working together to Safeguard Children " multi - agency work statutory guidance , publish under the last government in 2023 . this guidance say that prison need arrangement in place that take prisoner ' child ' s need into account . it recommend that on the first night of a prisoner ' s sentence , they be to be " support to make suitable care arrangement for any dependent child " , with the involvement of child ' s social care service where need . it advise the Prison Service to ask all prisoner during their custody screen whether they have care responsibility for child under the age of 18 . the inclusion of that in the guidance be positive , but it do not address the fact that some prisoner deliberately avoid reveal that they have child at home . child Heard and Seen , the charity I mention , report that some parent be scared of their child be take away by social service , so much so that they do not tell anyone about their child . furthermore , the prisoner in question might not have caring responsibility . they might not even any long have contact with the child . they might have be convict of domestic violence against the child ' s mother , or convict of sexual abuse or offence against the child themselves , but their imprisonment be still important in term of the trauma , stigma and shame that the child will be go through . I have hear of so many case where child of sex offender have have their home target . they have be drive out of where they live , they have be humiliate at school , and they have have to move town and change their name because of what their imprison parent — usually the father — have do . the Government ' s " keep child safe in education " statutory guidance for school and college , which be publish in September , rightly note that child with family member in prison be at a high " risk of poor outcome include poverty , stigma , isolation and poor mental health . " it signpost to the National Information Centre on child of Offenders as a source of support for school staff help child with a parent in prison , but the guidance have not be properly maintain for year . many of the resource it redirect to no long work , but family and professional be still be refer there . on the MOJ side , the Government publish a multidisciplinary training offer tender for professional on the impact of parental imprisonment , but this tender be take down and the Department will not clarify why or when it will go back up . in the meantime , child be still be leave without support . give that all prisoner have contact with his Majesty ' s Courts and Tribunals Service , there be a miss opportunity for early identification of such child . this new clause would not necessarily pick up all of they , but it would be a really good step forward . new clause 2 would go far than current guidance by instruct court to determine whether prisoner have child , to ensure they be protect . this could include use official datum and work more closely with council or local authority , as well as speak to the offender directly about how a child will be look after . it could also involve work with school . the new clause would present another opportunity for prisoner , before they enter the prison estate , to report that there be child at home . the more opportunity that prisoner be give to do that , the more likely they be to tell official . I be particularly strike by one of the account I hear , in which a woman have be in prison for about four month before reveal — she be have a counselling session or something — that she have child of school age who be leave behind at home by themselves . the new clause could also bring forward a structure and process for have those conversation to reassure prisoner that inform the authority about any child at home be the right thing to do for their child . statutory guidance be non - bind official advice and can not carry the force of the law , but the new clause would instruct the relevant agency to go far in their legal duty to protect child . as I have say , it will not catch all child , but it would be a major step forward . will the Minister say in her response how , if we be not go to do it this way , we be go to do it ? I wish to speak to my new clause 12 . each year hundred of family get a knock on the door from the police who must deliver the bad news that a family can ever hear : the news that one of their close relative have be murder . however , about 80 family each year receive the news that a family member have be murder while abroad . that can be via a police officer , but the news often come from a newspaper , or from a journalist who have find out and have reach out to the family directly . in many case when british citizen be murder abroad their family be leave to deal with unimaginable grief for their love one , all while face the full weight of an unfamiliar , bureaucratic and different system , and they do that alone . they have to navigate foreign legal procedure , untranslated document and distant court proceeding with patchy , inconsistent support from their government , all at a time of trauma , vulnerability and mourning . this be where new clause 12 come in . it seek to add an appendix to the victim code so that this group of bereaved family , who currently fall through the crack in our system , will no long do so . the principle underpin this Bill be clear : victim deserve to be at the heart of our criminal justice system . they deserve information , support and the opportunity to be hear . these be not privilege ; they be fundamental right . yet there be a cruel anomaly : if a british citizen be murder on british soil , their family receive structure statutory support through victim liaison officer , aid , court procedure and counselling service , but if the same british citizen be murder abroad — while on holiday , work away or study in another country — their family be so often leave to navigate an overwhelming maze of foreign bureaucracy , often in a language they do not speak , with inconsistent and inadequate information from the Government , who should be stand behind they . Ruth ' s sister Faye be kill in 2019 while in Nigeria , where she be work for a non - governmental organisation . she be shoot alongside her boyfriend in a double homicide . Ruth and her family be leave to deal with an overwhelming number of agency without proper support to understand who have responsibility for what , with limited communication and poor casework consistency from the british authority . vital information , such as the arrest and subsequent death of a suspect in custody , which the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office know about , take year to reach Ruth and her family . they have still not obtain a full and accurate account of what occur on the night of Faye ' s murder . Alison and Paul ' s son Danny be murder in Amsterdam in 2022 , age just 22 . Alison and Paul have explain how navigate the lengthy and complex dutch judicial procedure in a foreign language , while have to arrange matter such as repatriation without any support , be an immense challenge . they have describe be in a state of turmoil and trauma , and be uncertain how they manage to endure the circumstance . they have outline how the stress take a significant toll on both they and their daughter . Theresa ' s husband Stephen be kill in a violent attack by a gang while on holiday in Spain in 2009 . his two teenage son sustain permanent injury in the attack . Stephen ' s body be repatriate to the UK and be hold by the coroner in a mortuary for eight year before the inquest be hold . the inquest conclude with a verdict of unlawful killing , at which time the body be release to his wife and child — eight year after his death . Stephen ' s family receive no support from the UK for repatriation , travel and understand the trial in a foreign country and in a foreign language . Stephen ' s wife , Theresa , recount how she and her family have be live through a nightmare — not only of have to navigate the complex judicial system in Spain , but of feeling retraumatise by the lack of support they receive . Andrew ' s son be murder abroad when he be 18 year old . he say that , despite the fcdo have a duty to care for UK citizen , the family receive minimal support . the fcdo provide poor and inconsistent communication , leave the family without clear update at critical stage . the family be force to navigate a foreign judicial system with no help in understand procedure , local law or right , which add to their distress and confusion . they receive no structured aftercare or follow - up support , despite the psychological impact of such case . these horrible incident be not isolate . they show a broken system that fail british family at their most vulnerable moment . new clause 12 aim to address this by add an appendix to the victim code set out how the code apply to close relative of british citizen murder abroad . it state that the appendix must provide specific guidance explain how family affect by murder abroad can access support , include clear information about foreign justice process , which be often complex and distress for bereaved family , in unfamiliar legal system . this can include dedicated liaison officer , translation service and guidance on how to deal with foreign authority . I have speak to far too many family who be point to Google Translate for death certificate and description of judicial process in foreign language . that be simply not good enough in our country . under the new clause , family would also be entitle to emotional and practical support , include specialist bereavement counselling . some police service across the country do this really well , but other do not do it at all . let I be clear about what this amendment do not do . it do not seek to interfere with foreign judicial system , and it do not place unrealistic expectation on the fcdo . what it do be establish as a baseline a statutory framework that ensure bereaved family have access to the same quality of support and information here at home as any other victim of homicide would receive . the Murdered Abroad campaign be make up of bereaved family who have turn their grief into a really powerful call for change . they be not ask for any special treatment . they be ask for the same structured statutory support that family would receive if tragedy strike on british soil . the family who suffer these specific horror should not be forget because the crime go beyond our shore ; a british life lose be a british life no matter where in the world it happen . compassion in the face of tragedy be not optional but a duty , and new clause 12 provide a way to fulfil that duty . I thank right hon . and hon . member who have support it , and I ask everybody to vote for it this evening . I will speak to Government new clause 14 . it mean that rapist will no long have access to child conceive by their crime . it put the right of survivor above the right of criminal . it protect mummy and their precious baby . it be not okay that it take so long for the law to change — to keep up with common sense — but to get this change the Government fight to get we on these Benches and into government , bring with we our real - life experience and that of our community , support by Ministers , right up to the Prime Minister , determine to tackle violence against woman and girl . ten baby be bear every day in the UK as a result of rape . for too long , we have tell ourselves that rape only happen in faraway country , that it be a recent crime that arrive on boat . before that , rape only happen when a woman be drag down an alley by a stranger , or when a vulnerable girl be target by a gang . no , rape be happen here and now , just as much as it always have . it be in our community . it be happen to our woman , by our man . if a quarter of woman be rape or sexually assault most of the time by man they know , this mean that woman we know be be rape by man we know . some of these rape will result in pregnancy . until we start to believe that and accept that , nothing will change . woman will continue to live in fear of not be believe , so scare that instead of be able to speak up they hide their trauma in plain sight . that have to stop now and we all have a role to play , but it start with politician no long fail woman by , at well , not use their power to protect they , or , at worst , seek to weaponise their trauma . regardless of our class , age or background , rape have always be part of our story as woman . it be a part the Government be hear , not shy away from and not ignore because it be too difficult . instead , the Government be choose to use the law to acknowledge that this be happen : protect victim without retraumatise ; automatically remove parental responsibility where there be a conviction of rape ; and also say that we believe you , even without conviction , give a court the power to take action where it see that this be a child probably conceive from rape . law like this do not change without a fight . this law be change because we have a Prime Minister who take time to sit with I and listen to the voice of victim , and vow to do something about it . it be because of people like Baroness Harman , the Minister for Safeguarding and Violence against Women and Girls , the Home Secretary , the Justice Secretary , the Minister for Courts and Legal Services , and member from all across the House listen and help I navigate to find a solution , with the Minister for Victims lead the change . as the 690th woman MP , statistically the 172nd to be rape and one of the few to use this Chamber to speak out , my message be to victim and survivor everywhere : I know that speak out be tough . until you find your voice I will keep tell your story , because share our truth be the only way that we will ever see change like this and force shame to change side . so , " courage call to courage everywhere " . if you be one of the woman affect by this law change , I ask that you to tell somebody you love and trust . I want you to give they the opportunity to readily believe you and embrace their chance to support you . I want to end with the word of a brave mummy , who remain anonymous to keep herself and her child safe . she say : " they win ' t do it . they will let I down . they win ' t believe I . they ' ll see that what happen be my fault , that I ask for it , that it be my behaviour that cause this . that the bad thing imaginable happen and I only have myself to blame . that the rape grow inside I until I have to part with it by give birth , a birth I have repeat nightmare about . it ' s be so tough raise my child as a love mother , even though I struggle with the fact that that child exist . if you change the law today , that will be incredible . it mean I can use the law to keep I and my baby safe . it might even mean I can finally report it . " I will be think of she — her incredible bravery and her wonderful child — as I walk through the Lobby to vote for this Bill tonight . hear , hear . my new clause 15 and 16 concern restorative justice . they be support by the charity why I ? , for whom I be an ambassador , and Calm Mediation , as well as the Restorative Justice Council and other who work every day with victim and offender . I thank hon . member from my own party and from the Labour and Conservative Benches , who ask I to add their name in support . the need for these clause could not be clear . after year of conservative failure , our justice system stand at break point , with unacceptable delay . our court be clog , witness drift away or begin to forget , and our prison be stretch beyond break point . the Tories have leave we with a legacy of neglect , and the people who suffer most be the victim , whose voice be too frequently ignore . we must do more to put the victim at the heart of the criminal justice process , rather than simply as one of the piece of evidence to be hear in court . victim be more than just witness to the crime , but too often that be their only role in court proceeding . increasingly , when we talk about justice for victim , the debate collapse into retributive justice , as if all victim want be to lock the door and throw away the key . even David Gauke , the most liberal Lord Chancellor in my political lifetime , in his recent and mostly excellent sentencing review fall into this error with a chapter on victim focus keep they well informed about their sometimes unrealistic expectation concern the severity of punishment . his review , like today ' s Bill , make no mention of restorative justice , which should be at the heart of give victim access to justice . victim of crime do not want retribution but closure , and give they the opportunity to enter into a process that allow they to share their feeling concern the crime with other , often culminate in a meeting with the perpetrator , have repeatedly be show to achieve just that . do the hon . member accept that , actually , there be some victim of very , very serious crime who do not want a meeting and a resolution , but want to see a very serious offender spend a long time in prison ? well , of course , restorative justice be not right for every victim . I have say to the hon . member that it be right for many victim , include myself . I do not begin to understand why he find that a difficult point to understand . as I know from personal experience , when my wife , eld daughter and I meet one of the attacker who subject I to a murderous attack in my home and terrorise my family , restorative justice be not about forgiveness , although that often happen as a by - product , but in give the victim time and space to move on from the crime . my daughter , who move out of the family home follow the attack , move back in after the restorative justice meeting . it allow she to demythologise the perpetrator : no long a monster , but a deeply flawed human being who she could look straight in the eye and cast from her nightmare . that meeting transform our family and her life . yet for far too many victim , restorative justice remain out of reach . sadly , only one in 20 adult victim with a known offender be routinely tell about it . that be why new clause 15 be so crucial : it would create a statutory right to a meaningful referral to restorative justice service ; not a token leaflet or tick - box exercise , but a proper referral make as soon as reasonably practicable once the offender be identify , and offer subsequently at appropriate time during the criminal justice process . I emphasise again that participation would always be voluntary , but every victim would have the right to be inform and support to decide for themselves — what be wrong with that ? the Government may argue that they be consider strengthen the victim code ; indeed , clause 8 enhance the Victims ' Commissioner ' s reporting . that be welcome , but not enough . the commissioner can report only on what exist . new clause 15 would ensure that there be something meaningful to measure : a statutory right to referral . without it , access to restorative justice will remain inconsistent and uncertain . while new clause 15 would establish a meaningful statutory right , new clause 16 would ensure a meaningful review process by require the Secretary of State to report on the uptake of restorative justice and to make recommendation to improve access . if the Government truly value restorative justice , let they prove it with evidence — let Parliament see the datum and the plan to expand its use . the reporting duty would complement the commissioner ' s power while they review compliance with the code . the new clause go far , report on usage , barrier and way to increase participation . together , they create both the right and the oversight that victim deserve . these new clause carry no cost implication . it be about co - ordination , not cash . the infrastructure already exist ; what it be miss be the statutory backbone to ensure that every victim , wherever they live , have equal access to restorative justice . let we not forget that while restorative justice be all about put the victim at the heart of the criminal justice process , it also have the prove add advantage of cut rate of recidivism . the Government often speak about tackle the cause of reoffende — employment , housing , addiction — but restorative justice tackle the psychology of criminality . it change behaviour by confront offender with the human consequence of their action — not every offender , of course , but a significant number . if the Government truly stand with victim and want to cut reoffende , they must not simply make meek promise to review the code or commission another pilot ; they must make access to restorative justice meaningful and real . they must support new clause 15 and 16 — if not today , then in the other place — and allow restorative justice to do what punishment alone can not : heal the victim , reform the offender and mend the system on which we all depend . before I begin , I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Bolsover ( Natalie Fleet ) for her bravery and for the remarkable work she have do in her short time in this place , include on this Bill with new clause 14 . I be so proud to be on these Benches with she . I be go to speak to a measure at the heart of the Bill today . attendance at sentencing hearing will compel convict criminal to attend those hearing and provide the strong of consequence when they refuse . this law be for Olivia Pratt - Korbel and other victim . in August 2024 , two of the most remarkable woman I have ever meet walk into my first MP surgery . they be my constituent Cheryl Korbel and Antonia Elverson , who be with we in the Gallery today . Cheryl be Olivia ' s mum , and Antonia be Cheryl ' s cousin . on 22 August 2022 , Olivia , a little girl — just nine year old — be murder by a stranger in her own home . the murderer , Thomas Cashman , fire a bullet through the door of Olivia ' s home , which pass through the wrist of her mum , Cheryl , before hit Olivia in the chest and end her life . Cheryl fight with her heart and soul to save her baby . no mother should have to go through such unimaginable pain . while nothing in this world can bring Olivia back and nothing can hold back a grief so great , look the person responsible in the eye and tell they to their face the cost of their crime , and the effect it have have on the life of their love one , can give victim just a small semblance of justice and closure . but Cheryl never have that chance . under our current justice system , the ball be in the criminal ' s court — criminal can choose to opt out of attend their sentencing , which be exactly what Olivia ' s murderer do . cashman choose to remain in his cell , refuse to face the court to hear Cheryl ' s word or look she in the eye . it be the act of a coward . however , instead of collapse under this weight , Cheryl fight back . she and her family have campaign with their all so that no other family will suffer what they have suffer . that be why I read out Cheryl ' s victim impact statement in full on Second Reading . they be the word that the murderer and coward Thomas Cashman refuse to hear . I want the word of Cheryl Korbel commit to this House so that they would be on the record in this place forever . I want her word to ring out in this Chamber for all the world to hear , as they should have do in Cashman ' s ear that day . cashman ' s refusal to turn up shine a spotlight on what be wrong with this system , and I want to thank the Government , the Minister for Victims , my hon . friend the Member for Pontypridd ( Alex Davies - Jones ) , the former Justice Secretary , and the Prime Minister for listen and act on Cheryl and Antonia ' s wish . they have put victim where they belong : in the drive seat of our justice system . this injustice have go on for far too long , and that stop now . that be down to they . this be a law for Olivia ; it be her legacy . it be Cheryl ' s legacy , too . it be a law and a legacy for all the family who have campaign . I be delighted that these provision have unite support across this House , and I be confident that they will do so in the other place . let we back this Bill , pass it and make it law at speed so that no victim ' s voice be ever shut out of justice again . what a privilege it be to follow those powerful speech from the hon . member for Knowsley ( Anneliese Midgley ) and for Bolsover ( Natalie Fleet ) . they be clearly two very formidable parliamentarian , and it be a privilege to be in the same debate as they . I stand today to speak on behalf of my constituent Bethan and her parent , who be in the Gallery today . I be go to do that rare thing on the Opposition Benches of thank the Government for make change to restrict the parental responsibility of convict sexual offender . it be hugely important and clearly the right thing to do . when Bethan , whose story be cover by the BBC , learn that her ex - husband have be convict of some of the most serious child sex offence imaginable , she also learn that he retain access to her child . I be sure it be not lose on parliamentarian across this House that in those instance , for those paedophile and sexual offender , that access be the last bit of coercive and toxic control that they retain . in the previous Parliament , when Baroness Harman and the Minister for Violence against Women and Girls , the hon . member for Birmingham Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) , push for a new clause on this matter in the Criminal Justice Bill , I have the privilege of watch with my constituent from up in the Gallery . sadly , that Bill do not make it through the parliamentary wash - up , so the work be not complete at that time . bethan ' s family have to spend £ 30 , 000 — not a resource accessible to all — of their own money to get their case through the family court . they have go on this journey so that more victim — parent and mother — can take advantage of this legislation and be protect even if they do not have that resource . I speak to be the voice of Bethan and her family . although I will not take up much of the House ' s time , they want I to place on the record their gratitude to Baroness Harman and to Alex Chalk , the former Secretary of State for Justice , who stay in touch with they while there be work to be do . I be pleased we have get to report stage . they also want I to place on the record their thank to Laura Farris , to both Ministers present , the Under - Secretary of State for the Home Department , the hon . member for Birmingham Yardley , and the Under - Secretary of State for Justice , the hon . member for Pontypridd ( Alex Davies - Jones ) , and to the Justice Secretary , because they really have protect vulnerable mother and innocent child and spare they from excruciating distress . while I do place on record my gratitude , it would be remiss of I not to ask a couple of question on behalf of Bethan and her parent . they have query the restriction to four - year sentence and the sexual harm prevention order , which kick in with a two - and - a - half - year sentence . could the Minister provide clarity on that ? the measure refer to the child of sex offender and the restriction of parental right , but I do not think it refer to future child . [ interruption . ] I see the Minister nod her head . perhaps she will state that on record for clarity . today I have the very easy task of be the voice of Bethan and her parent in say thank you . this Bill be a really important measure to pass . I really welcome this Bill , which deliver long - overdue reform to protect victim and go a long way to rebuild confidence in our judicial system . I particularly thank my hon . friend the Member for Bolsover ( Natalie Fleet ) and for Knowsley ( Anneliese Midgley ) for their powerful contribution to the debate . I also thank the hon . member for Maidenhead ( Mr Reynolds ) for table new clause 12 , relate to UK citizen who be murder abroad . the previous Conservative Government fail to address this issue in the Victims and Prisoners Act 2024 , so I thank he for raise this important issue once again . as he have explain , the lack of any statutory support for the family of british national murder abroad be a glare gap in our legal system . family who find themselves in this deeply distress circumstance must deal not only with their immense grief but with difficult practical issue , such as navigate a foreign legal system — often with language barrier — and unfamiliar police force and judiciary . new clause 12 would address that anomaly by create an appendix to the victim code that set out how it apply to close relative of british national resident in England and Wales who be the victim of murder , manslaughter or infanticide commit abroad . the hon . member for Maidenhead be right that family in those awful circumstance need more support and be be fail by the current system . at the very minimum , they deserve the same recognition and support under the law as those whose tragedy occur within the UK . currently they be only able to access discretionary support that may be give by local chief constable , Government Departments and national service , such as the National Homicide Service and the victim contact scheme . that be not good enough . we need statutory right for family in these circumstance to be treat and support as victim themselves . rather than just an appendix to the victim code , we need a framework that be more bespoke , offer tailor help to family who need to navigate a particularly difficult set of circumstance . that could include help with the repatriation of their love one or keep they informed about the police investigation or court process that may be happen on the other side of the world , often in a different language . although I wholeheartedly agree with the principle behind new clause 12 , I can not support it . I think we need to go far , with both Justice Ministers and Foreign Office Ministers work together on a specific framework to support UK family who have lose love one while abroad . I be afraid I also can not support the new clause because , by my reading , subsection ( 1 ) to propose new section 2A be too narrowly draw . I be currently support the family of a constituent from Strood who have die in suspicious circumstance abroad in India . they have struggle to get the right support from the Foreign Office and come to I in desperation as they do not know where else to go for help . kent police have be help they through its miss person unit , as distressingly the first they know of anything have happen to their father be when they be send a video of his cremation , receive at 3 am UK time . however , there be obvious limit to what Kent police can do in this situation . as there be currently not even a murder or manslaughter investigation , since it be unclear what happen , the family would not be cover under subsection ( 1 ) to propose new section 2A , despite need the same support as family in those situation who the hon . member for Maidenhead be nobly try to help . rather than push new clause 12 to a vote , I urge the hon . member to join I in welcome the Minister ' s open comment about action in this space and call for she to commit to work with her Foreign Office equivalent to design a specific framework that will give statutory right not only to the family of UK resident who be the victim of murder , manslaughter or infanticide but to the family of those who have die in suspicious circumstance . that way , everyone who be face this difficult set of circumstance can get the support that they need . I congratulate the Minister on bring forward this raft of very important change . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Rochester and Strood ( Lauren Edwards ) . I would ask my hon . friend the Member for Maidenhead ( Mr Reynolds ) to address the point raise — I be not qualified — but I imagine that the purpose of new clause 12 be to make technical change so that the measure be even more effective , which , clearly , we would all support . in any case , my understanding be that it would require the Secretary of State to bring forward such change rather than stipulate what those change be in detail . like other , I warmly congratulate the hon . member for Bolsover ( Natalie Fleet ) on a very impressive and powerful speech . I know that the Minister congratulate she in advance on the campaign she have run . equally , the hon . member for Knowsley ( Anneliese Midgley ) make a very powerful speech . my hon . friend the Member for Wimbledon ( Mr Kohler ) and my hon . friend the Member for Maidenhead make strong case as well . I repeat the reminder of my hon . friend the Member for Chichester ( Jess Brown - Fuller ) that the primary purpose — this be certainly what I have always say — of custodial sentence must be public protection . it be on that issue that I wish to concentrate . my remark be entirely inform by a case I have be pursue on behalf of my constituent Tina Nash . the Minister be aware of this , because I have correspond with she on the subject . Tina be horrifically attack by her former partner in 2011 for a 12 - hour period until she manage to escape . in that time she be batter and have her eye gouge out and her jaw and nose break . it be an appalling beating that she be lucky to survive — and a survivor she be . the following year her former partner be jail for life with a minimum term of six year . however , early this year he be move to a category d prison , with open condition . my constituent be not consult about this and be only inform about it after the decision have be take . bear in mind that she be blind , it be understandable that she fear that , if she go out shopping , he could be in her company without her knowledge . she be incredibly scared as a result of the decision . she have no say in it , and nor be she consult . I table new clause 17 to urge the Government to accept that victim have a right to a veto in reasonable circumstance for their own protection — not in all circumstance and not in every condition , but we should certainly ensure that they be properly consult . as a result of this experience , I think there be a number of other failing in the system that require the Government to ensure belt - and - brace support for victim throughout the process . Tina want to pursue this matter with the Parole Board , but it do not respond to she until my intervention , and then there be an offer of a meeting . that be not good enough . it should not be down to a Member of Parliament to force a response . she be give the support of the victim contact scheme , which I will come to in a moment . my constituent be give the opportunity to complain — the Prisons and Probation Ombudsman provide she with a complaint form — but month after she have complete the complaint , she be inform that the ombudsman have assume she be the prisoner , not the victim . can that level of incompetence or her treatment throughout the process be believe ? she be treat appallingly , while the process waste her time and stress she out . her complaint be reject as outside the PPO ' s remit — that fact be not initially communicate to she — which cause her enormous distress and confusion . despite circumstance in which she be blind by her perpetrator , she still somehow have to navigate and overcome all these process and problem . of course , the PPO apologise for its error , but with a lack of empathy for my constituent in an officious response that direct she to the Victims ' Commissioner . I turn to Tina ' s interface with the victim liaison officer and the victim contact scheme . this week , I receive further communication from she in which she say that she have be attempt to seek support from the service and make inquiry about the restorative option that might be available , as mention by my hon . friend the Member for Wimbledon . I think it be incredibly brave of she even to consider that in such circumstance , but she be prepare at least to explore what that would mean , how she would go about it and so on . Tina get a response from her victim contact officer . in her message to I , she say : " he shout at I that [ the perpetrator ] be scared of I . so they be now try to make I feel like I be the perpetrator and [ the perpetrator ] be the victim … and they have to protect he . " that be from the victim contact scheme , which be there to support the victim , not to defend the perpetrator — what be go on ? she continue : " so I have remove myself from the victim contact scheme . I do not trust they … I be not be support . " that simply be not good enough . what be happen to the system to allow such circumstance to arise ? hon . member might think that my new clause , which would entitle victim to a veto , be an unreasonable request , but something have to be do . Tina have be appallingly let down by the system . if a victim who have go through all that be treat in such a manner , we really do need to strengthen the system and not allow it to continue as it be . she have be tell that her perpetrator be now remorseful and contrite about the whole thing , but I wonder whether psychopathy of people of that nature be fully understand . they can be as violent as that , and they can also act up and persuade professional that they be remorseful . I think it be theatrical contrition and insincere repentance , and I worry that the system be vulnerable to such people . I urge the Minister to look again at this area and ensure that victim and survivor be properly support . when I serve in the police force , my work often end when we put perpetrator behind bar , or sometimes when I stand in court to give evidence , but the victim ' ordeal do not end there . many reach out to I long after my role be do to tell I they still feel unheard and unprotected , and that justice for they be never truly serve . too many survivor live in fear , with victim check over their shoulder and alter their routine , wonder when the person who hurt they might walk free and attack they again . that be no way for anybody to live in society , and that be precisely why I welcome provision in the Bill such as expand the victim contact scheme , which will give victim vital reassurance , protect they from be blindside by their offender ' s release and help they reclaim a sense of safety . I be particularly pleased about Government new clause 14 — many hon . member have speak about it passionately — which would see the presumption of parental access suspend for parent who commit crime against child , because one child lose due to a criminal parent be grant unsupervised contact be one child too many . no one should ever have to risk their child ' s safety because of a system that put right before reason . order offender to attend their sentence be another critical step in that process and the next process as part of the Bill . victim deserve the chance to look those responsible in the eye , to be hear and to begin their healing . perpetrator must face the full weight and impact of their crime . there must be no more hiding from the consequence of what they have do . on that point , I must highlight the work of the Justice for Victims group : an organisation of family who have turn their pain into purpose . I have have the privilege of meet they on several occasion . Sasha Marsden be 16 when she be rape and stab more than 100 time by her killer . Tony Hudgell lose his low leg as a result of child cruelty by his own parent . Sarah Everard be abduct by a serve police officer while walk home , rape and murder , and her body be dispose of . at just four year old , Violet - Grace Youens be kill by a dangerous driver in a steal car drive at 80 mph in a 30 mph zone . the perpetrator spend barely more time in prison than Violet be alive . last , but not least , of this group , Jan Mustafa be kill by a serial sex offender who store her body in a freezer alongside another murder victim , Henriett . the family of those victim be just a few of many who have be let down by the justice system ' s treatment of victim in one way or another over time . one victim tell I that their victim impact statement be so heavily edit by defence lawyer that they barely recognise their own word . how can anyone find closure when their voice be silence in that way ? it be not right . that be why I have speak about this in depth several time to my hon . friend the Minister , and why I welcome the outcome that she have bring forward . it be also why I have campaign so much to see real reform of victim personal statement . no family should ever have to water down their grief or pain just to spare the feeling of the person who cause it . victim deserve to be hear in their own word honestly and fully . offender must also be make to hear every word to confront the true devastation they have cause . that principle tie in directly with the provision of the Bill . yes , offender should be compel to attend their sentencing , but they should also be compel to listen to how their crime have impact victim and their family . there should be no place to hide for perpetrator and no reason for victim to edit or soften their voice to fit the comfort of those who harm they . justice for Victims be also call for clarity on terminology . life sentence do not mean life , so we should stop pretend that they do . justice for Victims be also right to call for clarity in life sentence , with life mean behind bar for life . yes , we have whole - life sentence , but it do no favour when life sentence — not whole - life sentence — can be equivalent to , I think , 12 year . the public deserve honesty and victim deserve truth . additionally , there must be change to the time limit for victim ' family to appeal offender ’ sentence . Katie Brett , who be Sasha ' s sister , say that victim and family currently have only " 28 day to appeal " unduly lenient sentence , normally at a time when they be " grieve and traumatise . but criminal be allow to appeal after this in ' exceptional circumstance . ' why don ' t victim and their family get this right ? " that question cut to the heart of this debate . victim and family deserve fairness and they deserve to be hear . these be not radical reform . they be small , practical , compassionate step that will make a profound difference to people ' s life . I wholeheartedly support the Bill and the progress it represent , but I urge the Government to go even far to deliver real justice for victim and survivor , and to ensure that no one who have already suffer once be ever fail by this system ever again . I want to start by thank the Minister for accept the principle behind amendment 9 , which I have now withdraw , and for introduce a new amendment to restrict parental responsibility for serious child sexual abuser who offend against child who be not their own , build on the Government ' s welcome step of restrict it for those who do . this represent a real step forward for child safety , and I pay tribute to the collaborative spirit of the Under - Secretary of State for Justice , my hon . friend the Member for Pontypridd ( Alex Davies - Jones ) , and to the many member across the House who support the amendment , alongside Fair Hearing and the many victim who have fight so hard for this change . I also want to put on the record my support for new clause 1 , 2 and 18 , and to give my heartfelt love to my hon . friend the Member for Bolsover ( Natalie Fleet ) and her eloquent bravery . I would like to speak to new clause 10 and 11 , which stand in my name , although I will not be push they to a vote . these twin new clause seek to place statutory duty on the relevant authority to commission specialist service for victim of abuse and exploitation and those who care for they . the Government have already commit , in their tackle child sexual abuse progress update early this year , to increase access to support for victim and survivor of child sexual abuse , and the independent inquiry into child sexual abuse , which report three year ago last week , recommend a national guarantee of support for victim of sexual abuse . new clause 10 , which be support by woman ' s aid , the National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children , Barnardo ' s , Action for Children , Catch 22 , the Centre of Expertise on Child Sexual Abuse , SafeLives , respect and the Independent Domestic Abuse Services , as well as 49 of my colleague across the party , seek to make this a reality by end the postcode lottery that victim face and ensure that we have adequately fund specialist service for whoever might need they . do my hon . friend agree that community - base service support the victim of domestic violence and sexual abuse , such as Next chapter , the Centre of Action on rape and Abuse — CARA — and Restitute in Essex , do vital work that should be back by multi - year settlement and enhanced commission arrangement in the east of England and beyond ? I thank my hon . friend for her intervention and pay tribute to the service in her local area . we all have many such specialist service , and I be sure that we will want to pay tribute to they this evening . the Centre of Expertise on Child Sexual Abuse estimate that there be 55 , 000 adult and child in England and Wales on waiting list for support follow child sexual abuse , and the Domestic Abuse Commissioner have find that over a quarter of domestic abuse service be have to turn away child who be victim of abuse . it be a stain on this country that few than half of domestic abuse victim be able to access the community - base support that they deserve . I expect that the public would be astonish to know that there be no automatic right to specialist support after a terrible , traumatic crime such as rape or domestic abuse . even though the victim code specifie that people have a right as a victim to be refer to specialist service , this be not an actionable right . victim can not sue anyone if it be not uphold . the sad reality be that specialist service be on their knee . twenty - three child sexual abuse support service have close in the past 18 month due to financial pressure . just the week before last , jewish Sexual Abuse Support be force to close due to cut , which have have a particular impact on small by - and - for organisation . its chief executive , Erica Marks , give the stark warning that we could " expect to see more community sexual violence organisation fail " . that be unacceptable if we want to halve violence against woman and girl . by - and - for service such as hers be the backbone of our response to victim of abuse . they help to reach some of the most exclude in our society . lose the vital , lifesave support provide by organisation such as JSAS and other will not make victim safe . we know that there be many pressure on the public purse , but there be a financial case to be make for invest in these support service . a 2021 report for the Home Office estimate that the economic and social cost of contact child sexual abuse alone be £ 10 . 1 billion . that be money that we lose in economic output and in huge cost to the NHS , the police and the criminal justice system . the cost of domestic abuse , which affect 2 . 4 million adult a year and account for one in five homicide , be estimate by the Domestic Abuse Commissioner to cost £ 85 billion per year . that be £ 47 billion more than the budget of the Home Office and the Ministry of Justice combine . to do nothing will not save we money . it will only ensure that cost spiral , load pressure on all our public service and reduce our economic productivity . we know that , without support , victim be less likely to stay the course of a criminal justice process , less likely to recover from the trauma of their experience , less likely to be able to go back into work , and more likely to remain vulnerable to future exploitation and abuse . specialist service be those that employ dedicated worker who be train to understand , for example , the dynamic of coercive and control behaviour . they be those that recognise that rape and domestic abuse be largely gendere crime . they recognise that child be not just an adjunct to adult and that , just as they have paediatrician , child need their own child - centre response . by - and - for service also go far . they be expert in honour - base abuse and the weaponisation of immigration status , the need of disabled or old victim and the dynamic of same - sex relationship . crucially , they be independent from the statutory sector . they champion the victim first and advocate for the support they need without fear or favour . in the Domestic Abuse Act 2021 , a statutory duty be place on commissioner to secure accommodation - base support , such as refuge for domestic abuse victim . while the roll - out have not be perfect in practice , it have at least place a duty on local authority to maintain provision at local level . no such duty exist for community - base support for domestic abuse victim , despite the community be where nearly 70 % of victim access support . in a concession at the end of consideration of the Domestic Abuse Bill , the previous Government promise a consultation on a statutory duty for community - base provision . that never happen . it be a casualty of the change list of Justice Secretaries who do not keep their promise . it fall to this Labour Government to resurrect that promise . we must also recognise those who pick up the piece after the unimaginable happen to their loved one , such as someone discover that their partner have abuse their child , or grandparent step in to care for child after perpetrator of domestic abuse drive their partner to destitution . one in 20 adult be closely related to a victim of serious assault . accord to analysis from researcher at the Violence and Society Centre , people relate to victim of violence be four time more likely to feel unsafe in their neighbourhood and twice as likely to have depression or an anxiety disorder than people not relate to victim of violence . they themselves face unique challenge , include stress , guilt , trauma and depression . these be all thing that parent and carer must balance while deal with the practical , everyday challenge they face while navigate the legal system , co - ordinating with agency , understand safeguard procedure and try to access therapy for those they care for . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Lowestoft ( Jess Asato ) for her fantastic speech . I recently meet some kinship carer who with very little support often take on family member who have suffer terrible trauma and abuse . they do not understand the child ' s trauma and they do not understand how good to support they . do my hon . friend agree that , in order to get the good result for child victim , we need to think about how we extend support to kinship carer , so that they can support those child who have be through the bad of time ? I absolutely agree that kinship carer , parent and partner be different from those of the primary victim , and they need support in their own right . when we fail those third - party victim , we fail the primary victim , too . we allow they to disengage from the legal process , and we deprive they of the wraparound support they need when they be at their most vulnerable . new clause 11 be support by the organisation Restitute , we stand , act Fast and Ivison Trust , and a version of it be first lay by Baroness Sal Brinton in the other place in a Bill last year . it would place a statutory duty on commissioner to ensure that appropriate independent service be available for the parent , guardian or person responsible for the care of a victim who be under 18 at the time of the offence , or who be an adult at risk of harm . once again , that should already be happen — it be supposedly a right in the victim code . the independent inquiry into child sexual abuse recommend that support for non - abuse parent and carer should be statutory . new clause 11 would bring that crucial recommendation to fruition . family should not have to wait year ; they want action now . as with victim service , severe funding shortage fail to make the ambition set out in the code a reality . together , new clause 10 and 11 would ensure that if any one of we here , or someone we care for , be abuse or exploit , we or they would be support . it be an ambition long support that must now be meet with action . I look forward to work with the Minister and colleague across the House on save our specialist service and save victim and their family , and I will be pleased to vote for the Bill tonight . I rise to speak to new clause 1 in my name . it would ensure the implementation of recommendation 18 from the independent inquiry into child sexual abuse . survivor of child sexual abuse have be let down for year by a national compensation scheme . too often their application be delay or deny , not because the legitimacy of their abuse be in any question , but because of loophole set by the very organisation that be establish to support they : the Criminal Injuries Compensation Authority . the many limitation of the scheme be consider during IICSA , which result in a clear recommendation to remove the unfair barrier set by CICA , but in April Ministers reject that recommendation . my new clause 1 would overturn that decision . it have command the support of 27 member from across the House and the backing of 29 charity and expert . they include the Marie Collins Foundation and the Association of Personal Injury Lawyers , which have campaign passionately on this issue . in opening , the Minister say that she want a universal scheme without hierarchy , but unfortunately that be not the case at the moment . my amendment would widen the eligibility of the scheme to include those who have be victim of online - facilitate child sexual abuse . the recent Casey audit find that 40 % of the 100 , 000 record child sexual abuse offence last year take place online , so that be around 40 , 000 child who will struggle to access compensation because their abuse be not consider by CICA " violent " enough to qualify . as IICSA rightly conclude , that rule " do not take account of the extent of the harm and damage " of online abuse , such as the ongoing fear that image of sexual abuse will remain available online indefinitely . by continue to leave online abuse out of scope , CICA reinforce the risk that online sexual abuse be perceive somehow as less serious or less deserving of redress , but nothing could be far from the truth . new clause 1 also seek to increase the time limit for application so that survivor have seven year from the date the offence be report to the police , or from the age of 18 if the offence be report while they be a child . the scheme currently have just a two - year time limit , but the average time it take for a survivor of child abuse to come forward be 24 year to 27 year . there be many reason for that , and we have hear some in the Chamber today : trauma , fear and shame , not to mention the length of time to go through the court process . the Minister know this , which be why she and the other Justice Ministers rightly abolish the three - year time limit for civil claim by survivor of child sexual abuse , in line with IICSA recommendation 15 . however , the decision mean that survivor face a strange paradox : no time limit for they to take legal action against their abuser , but tight restriction if they wish to seek compensation for that same abuse . the Government have argue that there be discretion in the scheme to allow application after the time limit have expire . that be indeed true . however , the proportion of resolve case accept after the time limit have fall each year between 2020 and 2024 . in 2020 , 87 . 3 % of application receive outside the time limit be resolve . by 2024 , that be down to 66 . 9 % . by contrast , the compensation model in Quebec allow seven year for all type of crime except for domestic abuse , child sexual abuse and sexual violence , which have no time limit at all . surely that be the model we should be follow . finally , new clause 1 would prevent survivor of child abuse from be affect by a rule that block or reduce compensation for victim with unspent conviction . APIL share with I the case of a woman who be sexually abuse by her father . she have suffer with her mental health as a consequence and be hospitalise . while in hospital , she threaten to kill herself with a letter opener . the hospital call the police , and she be convict of possess a knife . because of that conviction , she be then refuse the compensation by CICA that have be originally offer to she . that be why new clause 1 would ensure applicant with unspent conviction be not automatically exclude where offence be link to circumstance of their sexual abuse as a child . Anti - slavery charity have also be in touch to explain how this particular rule impact on victim of trafficking who try to access the compensation scheme . it be not unusual for victim of slavery or , indeed , child or criminal exploitation to be force into criminality by their exploiter . those conviction , however , commonly lead to immense difficulty for those victim to then access compensation — something that victim of modern slavery , for example , ought to be entitle to under article 15 of the european convention on action against trafficking . the criminal injury compensation scheme be suppose to be a support scheme of last resort . sadly , for many survivor , it be not even that . in the long term , CICA need a complete overhaul . in the short term , however , survivor be keen to see the swift implementation of recommendation 18 , because in do so this House and this Government can send a powerful message that their abuse be recognise , that their future be prioritise and that meaningful change be under way . I want to speak in support of new clause 10 and 11 , which would place a duty on authority to guarantee support for victim of domestic abuse , sexual violence and child criminal exploitation , as well as their care - giver . I be proud to support a Government who be commit to halve violence against woman and girl and who just last week announce some of the most significant step towards support victim of abuse , include deny rapist access to child bear of rape and an end to the presumption of contact in the family court — not just word but action . I support call for meaningful action today . victim be not only deal with the trauma of what have happen to they . for many , the thought of the court case risk retraumatize they . give the backlog in our court — a backlog leave by previous government — victim be wait month and sometimes year before case be hear . that wait take a huge emotional toll . we have to address the fear of the process if we be to meet our target of halve violence against woman and girl . we have to support victim throughout the process . I urge the Government to build a system that give victim the confidence to come forward know that they will not be leave to cope alone . child who experience abuse face unique and lasting harm . without the right specialist support , the devastating impact of childhood trauma can echo through a lifetime . additionally , caregiver be often also traumatise . without further support , they not only do not get the support they need but be not as able to provide the love and stability that the child they be help need . I be proud of the Government ' s work so far to strengthen the victim code and improve how the victim of these horrendous crime be treat . but we can build on that by make sure that , wherever someone live , they can rely on the right specialist service to help they to cope with the trauma , manage the emotional strain of the trial and rebuild their life after it . together , the measure in the Bill recognise that victim and their family need wraparound support , not piecemeal provision . Calder Valley be fortunate to have deputy mayor for police Alison Lowe , who put violence against woman and girl at the centre of her work . organisation such as Staying Safe and Victim Support West Yorkshire provide lifeline to victim of domestic abuse and crime , and Calderdale WomenCentre offer holistic support . but too often these service be stretch and reliant on short - term grant and support , wound by a decade of austerity , and without the statutory footing that guarantee their future . there be a postcode lottery . we must deliver change by place a duty on authority to commission specialist service everywhere , so that victim and their caregiver can rely on consistent support across the board . the victim of these crime deserve more than just word and sympathy : they deserve a system that stand with they and provide the support they need . I hope this Government will deliver practical step that will deliver the change we need . be a parent be a privilege , not a right . I rise to speak to Government new clause 14 , on the restriction of parental responsibility for a child conceive as a result of rape . it will appear on the face of this Bill because of the fierce campaigning force of my hon . friend the Member for Bolsover ( Natalie Fleet ) — my friend and my hero . her law change , to be engrave in the Government ' s Bill , put the need of survivor above the need of rapist , cast in law a shield for woman who have have a child as a result of rape , and for their baby . those rapist will no long be able to retraumatise the mother , nor to demand access to or endanger the child . if anyone say politic do not make a difference , I say , " look at my hon . friend , who share her own experience of be groom and abuse and have a child as a result . " her extraordinary strength raise that beautiful baby girl . that strength mean that she do so alongside become a Member of this House and , within her first year as a parliamentarian , will today change the law to protect a generation of woman , girl and child . this be the difference that politic in the hand of member like my hon . friend make for our community and our country : protect woman and child from vile sex offender . it be a non - negotiable priority , central to our Government ' s mission to halve violence against woman and girl within a decade . this matter . as my hon . friend the Member for Bolsover say , 10 baby a day be currently bear as a result of rape . yet we still do not know the true scale of physical and sexual abuse at the hand of know domestically abusive parent . we do know that 60 % of case in the family court involve domestic abuse , and that 40 , 000 child will have experience domestic abuse in the private law Children Act case that be receive by the Children and Family Court Advisory and Support Service in the nine month from April 2024 . my formidable constituent , Claire Throssell MBE , lose her two beautiful boy 11 year ago , at the hand of her know domestically abusive ex - husband , while they be on a five - hour court - permit contact visit . he lure they into the attic of their home with the promise of a train set , and set fire around their house . Claire promise her boy that she would ensure their voice be hear by campaign to repeal the presumption of contact , the legal principle bring about by the Children and Families Act 2014 , amend the Children Act 1989 . the principle mean that the court always prioritise have both parent in a child ' s life over the child ' s safety , include when there be a know history of domestic abuse . there have be 67 death at the hand of know domestic abuser since woman ' s aid start to report on this issue just 30 year ago . five previous conservative Governments — look at the empty Benches opposite — do nothing , despite the Conservative Government in 2020 lead the harm panel report , an expert review of domestic abuse and the family court ; despite that report recommend that the presumption of contact should be urgently review ; and despite Women ' s aid research find there have be 19 more child death at the hand of know domestic abuser since Jack and Paul die . no response be publish for four year under those conservative government . where be Conservative Members today ? I first meet Claire at a remembrance event at my old school — the same school that her eld son Jack go to . I know of the tragic death of her son , but hear from she what happen be heartbreaking . I promise she that if I be elect as her Member of Parliament , I would help to fulfil her promise to her boy . last week , I take Claire to no . 10 Downing Street to meet the Prime Minister — the sixth Prime Minister since her beautiful boy die , but the first to promise Claire that he will deliver Jack and Paul ' s law . last week , on the 11th anniversary of the boy ' death , he announce in this Chamber that our Government will repeal the presumption of contact . the Prime Minister ' s promise make it clear that the repeal of the presumption of contact will form part of a broad package of family court reform aim at well protect child involve in private law proceeding . that be truly decisive action by our Government to change the law to protect generation of child where the Conservatives fail to do so . the reform will ensure that decision about child arrangement put the child at the centre of decision making and be base on a robust assessment of the potential risk , particularly when domestic abuse be present . our message be clear : the safety of child be paramount . we will stop at nothing to make sure that they be protect in our court , prioritise child ' s safety and wellbeing and their right to grow up free from harm . the change will reinforce new clause 14 and the exceptional work set out in the Bill by put child at the centre of the family court . I be proud that our Labour Government be pack full of brilliant woman who stand behind Claire Throssell , Natalie Fleet and I to ensure that our government fulfil her promise to her boy . those woman include the Minister of State for Courts and Legal Services , the Minister for Victims , the Minister for Safeguarding and violence against Women and Girls , and my hon . friend the Members for Lowestoft ( Jess Asato ) , for Milton Keynes Central ( Emily Darlington ) and for Bolton North East ( Kirith Entwistle ) . I also thank my hon . friend the Member for Calder Valley ( Josh Fenton - Glynn ) for his work and allyship . repeal the presumption of contact be urgent . will the Minister confirm that it will be repeal as soon as the parliamentary time allow , thereby fulfil the promise that the Prime Minister make to Claire Throssell last week ? expedite the repeal of the provision in the statute book will ensure that no more town like mine will grieve , and it will ensure that Jack and Paul ' s law be at the heart of our family justice system , where it belong . I commend the Bill to the House . rise — Order . I be very conscious that the hon . member for Bolsover ( Natalie Fleet ) make an impassioned and move speech , but I remind member that we must refer to she as the hon . member for Bolsover . I will speak in favour of new clause 13 and 14 and the expansion to clause 3 . I serve with some colleague in Committee , but may I begin by thank all member who have contribute tonight ? we have have a series of impassioned speech from across the House , and I particularly thank my hon . friend the Members for Bolsover ( Natalie Fleet ) , for Knowsley ( Anneliese Midgley ) and for Penistone and Stocksbridge ( Dr Tidball ) for their powerful contribution . the amendment we be discuss this evening be a significant step forward in protect victim of serious violence and they will help thousand of people . they will help to ensure the safety of victim of serious sexual abuse and victim of crime who have sign a non - disclosure agreement , and , crucially , these amendment will also protect child . new clause 14 will ensure the protection of child bear of rape . on Second Reading , I speak of a constituent who have have a child as a result of an abusive relationship . she tell I of the extreme difficulty she have be face as she have pass through a long and complex custody battle . she ask I if we , as politician , could look again at parental right in the context of abusive relationship . I be very pleased that new clause 14 will protect child bear in such circumstance . no long will child bear of rape , or their mother , be force to have a relationship with a rapist . currently , mother in some case must co - parent with a rapist . woman should not be force to include their rapist in decision on their child ' s healthcare , schooling , or any other aspect of a child ' s life . child should not have to be raise by rapist . mother who have a child bear of rape should be safe in the knowledge that have a child will not tie they to their rapist . automatic restriction of parental responsibility will ensure that mother and child be safe . rapist should not have the automatic right to interfere with their victim ' life . this clause free family from the stress and pain of apply to court by ensure that this restriction be immediate . the expansion to clause 3 similarly ensure that any person convict of serious sex offence against any child have their parental right remove . the safety of child be the utmost priority , and expand this measure from those who have abuse their own child to those who have seriously abuse any child will ensure the safety of the child the perpetrator be close to . paedophile should have no right to look after any child . I be also pleased to see that new clause 13 will allow we to clamp down on the misuse of non - disclosure agreement , which be use to hide instance where a crime have occur . victim of crime should not have to worry about who they speak to regard the crime of which they be a victim , and non - disclosure agreement should not be use to silence victim of crime , nor should they stop witness come forward . this change will mean that victim and direct witness of crime can speak to their friend , their family and their support system , but they can also speak to their employer and , if necessary , to journalist . I very much welcome the closing of this loophole , which allow criminal to scare victim into not share their experience . the law must not protect those who seek to silence victim . these amendment will allow we to take significant step towards the Government ' s aim of halve violence towards woman and girl . but more than that , these amendment serve to give victim of serious violent crime justice . I rise to speak in support of new clause 4 and the other amendment in my name and those of my right hon . friend the Member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) and other member of the his Majesty ' s Opposition . I know the Minister will join I in begin by thank all the witness who come and give evidence to we in Committee on the behalf of victim , include Dame Nicole Jacobs , the Domestic Abuse Commissioner ; Baroness Newlove , the Victims ' Commissioner ; Katie Kempen from Victim Support ; Rebecca Bryant from Resolve ; Suky Baker from the Suzy Lamplugh Trust ; Andrea Simon from the end violence against Women coalition ; Farah Nazeer from Women ' s aid ; Glenn Youens and Paula Hudgell from Justice for Victims ; and Mark Brooks OBE from the ManKind Initiative . we all benefit greatly from their evidence and the victim ' perspective they give . it be clear that many of the witness and member from both side of the House be of one view about many of the positive aspect of this Bill . for example , the improved power for the Victims ' Commissioner be welcome and they will give new strength to their arm in raise issue and secure change on behalf of victim . the streamlining and expansion of the victim contact scheme will help victim be well inform about key information about their offender post - conviction . other important measure be consider in Committee , and I be pleased to say that , while at the time the Government be commit to their approach , they have since shift to some degree , which I will go on to cover . we welcome the Government ' s new clause 14 on parental responsibility for a child conceive of rape , create a duty on the court to make a prohibit step order restrict the parental responsibility of a person convict of rape where a child have be conceive as a result of that offence . this be an important measure that strengthen the protection available to victim and ensure that offender can not continue to wield control over their victim through their child . I join member on both side of the House in pay tribute to the hon . member for Bolsover ( Natalie Fleet ) , who speak very powerfully in relation to that and have be a committed campaigner , and other member have be mention who have support she in secure that change . for too long , victim of rape have face the unthinkable prospect of have to engage with their attacker over matter concern their child ' s wellbee . on the change Government position on clause 3 on parental responsibility , witness and other in Committee make it clear that the initial proposal fall far short of what be require , so we welcome Government amendment 10 widen the duty on the Crown court to make an order restrict parental responsibility where a person be sentence to four year or more for a serious sexual offence against a child — in relation to all child rather than just a child of their own . several member have work towards this amendment , but I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Meriden and Solihull East ( Saqib Bhatti ) , along with the previous Justice Secretary the right hon . member for Birmingham Ladywood ( Shabana Mahmood ) and — I do not expect they be still in the Gallery — the constituent of my hon . friend who raise this case in such a high - profile way . the Minister will know there have be different clause : one that be first put forward by the Conservatives in government ; the initial clause from the current Government ; and this further clause . the Minister will also know that our further clause would remove the four - year requirement and have it apply more widely to any sexual offence . my hon . friend put forward yet another way that we might well prescribe those subject to these measure beyond those convict of offence with a sentence of four year or more . although I appreciate that this be a novel measure , if it prove effective in practice we would welcome the opportunity to revisit it in future and see how we might well frame it to protect child . on amendment 4 to 7 in relation to the unduly lenient sentence scheme , the current scheme allow certain sentence to be refer to the Attorney General ' s Office if they be think to be too lenient . that be an important safeguard in our justice system . I have make use of it , as have other member and member of the public as well , but too many victim and family simply do not know the scheme exist , and even when they do , the time limit be far too tight for it to work in practice . currently , people only have 28 day from the date of a sentence to ask for review ; that be four short week at what be often one of the most traumatic and confusing time in their life . for family who have just be through a difficult and emotional trial , 28 day be no time at all to understand the process , get advice and decide whether to ask for a review . our amendment would make a number of reasonable and practical change to help fix that . they would extend the deadline from 28 to 56 day , give the wide public the same time limit that the Government be give themselves in this Bill ; the Government be extend the length of appeal for themselves , but not for victim . we would also allow up to one year for the next of kin or a victim to apply in case where they be affect or they have lose a love one . it would also place a duty on the CPS to write to victim or their family after sentence to tell they about the scheme and how it work . far too often , family never hear about the scheme or hear about it after the deadline have pass . in recent week , I meet with Karen Garland from the Marie Collins Foundation , who have be support a lady call Lauren who lodge an application in time to the Government for the scheme , only to be bar from make use of it because the CPS make a mistake about the time she have to far appeal it . so on a purely technical basis , she be prevent from lodge a valid appeal and there be no way for she to get that look at . there be an attempt to ask the sentencing judge to look at it again but , with respect to that sentencing judge , ask the same judge who have pass the sentence to look at that sentence again be not what the ULS be intend to achieve . campaigner have do incredible work to highlight the issue . they include Katie Brett , who other have mention , who launch a petition in memory of her sister , Sasha — I will not repeat the awful circumstance of her sister ' s death , which the hon . member for Forest of Dean ( Matt Bishop ) powerfully highlight — and Ayse Hussein , who campaign on behalf of her cousin Jan Mustafa . they be both part of Justice for Victims , and I also recently meet Tracey Hanson , who found the Josh Hanson Trust after the murder of her son . they have all show courage and determination in call for change , and they speak for many family who feel let down by the system . the Government have say that they will wait for the outcome of a wide review of criminal appeal before take action . however , I want member to be clear that the provisional view of that review be that the ULS should not be change and that it be fine as it be . we have no timetable for when that review will be publish or when the Government will respond to it , but we have a Bill in front of we that would allow we to make such change , so now be the time to do that . the Minister talk about certainty in sentencing , but victim have to sit and wait know that the criminal can appeal at any time — in exceptional circumstance , criminal can appeal year later — so there be no certainty in the exist system . we want to even that out for the public . we should not forget that behind every case be a family who have be through unimaginable pain . the Minister must be sympathetic to our measured and proportionate proposal , and we should vote they through tonight . turn to new clause 4 , victim impact statement , which be make by victim and sometimes their family member in court , allow victim and their family to explain in their own word how a crime have affect their life . they be an important part of the justice process and one of the few chance that victim have to be hear directly by the court . however , there be real concern about the restriction place on what victim be allow to say in these statement . many victim and their family member have say that they be tell to remove part of their statement or to avoid express their true feeling . that be deeply unfair and undermine the purpose of the statement . I understand the formality of the proceeding , but the current approach often strip away the honesty and the point that victim would like to make . we have hear about family who have be through this . as other have mention , Sarah Everard ' s parent , Susan and Jeremy , talk about their difficulty . while they understand the advice that they be give and think that they be well support in the court and by the court process , they think that the system do not allow they to say what they would have like . Glenn and Becky Youens , who I have speak to frequently , want to talk about the death of their daughter , Violet - Grace , at the hand of appalling criminal , but again they be restrict . there will be thing that the judge can not take into consideration . however , we need to allow the judge to make clear what point of law will or will not be consider , and what thing the victim may wish to say , in order to have their hearing and to get their say , that the judge will not technically take into account in sentencing , without put it back on victim and say that we can not change the system because of the law . for example , if the victim want to say what sentence the perpetrator should get , what be wrong with that ? in these sort of circumstance , it be perfectly reasonable that any person in court would want to be able to say that . be we really say that the judge can not hear that and then set it aside ? the shadow Minister be right that there be certain thing that victim should be able to say in their victim impact statement — we agree on that — but there be thing that be clearly not in the remit of what should be openly discuss in a sentencing hearing . they include information pertain to the offender ' s family , for example . victim may want to reference that in their victim impact statement , but for the safety of those other family member , they should not be mention . it be right that we have strict guidance , and I be willing to work with he and other hon . member to ensure that the victim have a voice in this . we have be clear that victim do not have carte blanche — they can not say literally whatever they like — but our propose new clause allow the Government to set what those thing will or will not be more clearly in law . that put the onus back on the judge to disregard thing that will not be of relevance to the sentencing . I think that be a perfectly reasonable way to organise thing . the shadow Minister have just outline exactly why it would be wrong to put this into statute . the issue of victim impact statement be not black and white — there be a large grey area — which be why have a specific list of what can and can not be put in place be not the right approach . we do not need legislation on this , but we do need proper guidance and training to support victim and family so they can have their say in a sentencing hearing . with non - exhaustive list , part of which be in legislation and part of which be not , we can agree the thing that be vital for people to be able to say , while other thing could be determine through guidance . however , legislation be need because , as the Minister point out , there be fundamental thing about the definition of a victim personal statement that we think be wrong . that will need to be change in legislation to give people freedom to comment on those issue . we can go on to decide how the judge might handle that . I commend my friend the hon . member for Maidenhead ( Mr Reynolds ) for his work on new clause 4 . I meet Eve Henderson , from the charity murder abroad , who have long campaign for well recognition and support for the family of british national who have lose love one to murder , manslaughter and infanticide overseas . far too often , those family find themselves in a position of deep grief , while also have to navigate complex and unfamiliar foreign legal system with little or no support from home . they can be leave without clear information , a voice in proceeding or access to the service that victim of crime in this country be entitle to expect . to correct that injustice , the new clause would set out explicitly how the victim code apply in such circumstance , guarantee access to practical and emotional support , clear information about process and the ability to challenge decision . the contribution by the hon . member for Rochester and Strood ( Lauren Edwards ) be unusual . as the consistent Government message against the measure have be that the original proposal be too broad , the hon . Lady have think carefully and bring forward proposal that be narrow , so disagree with the Government objection . I will assume that be her sincere reason for object to the measure , and that it be nothing to do with the fact that the whip have tell Labour Members they can not vote for it . to conclude , there be a range of measure that we support . we welcome their progress in the House , even when they be imperfect . however , the amendment we have propose about the unduly lenient sentence scheme and victim impact statement be the right measure at the right time . I trust the Minister ' s sincerity when she say that she want to work on those issue , but I do not trust her government and their ability to deliver on what they say that they will . mp have be ask by their constituent to back the amendment and I hope that they do — there be no reason not to . I ask all mp to support our amendment tonight . I rise to close what have be an excellent debate on the Victims and Courts Bill . as I say in my opening remark , this House be at its good when we come together and rise above party politic , to put the interest of our constituent first , and that be exactly what we have do . I thank right hon . and hon . member from across the House for the collaborative way in which they have engage in the debate , as have be see throughout the passage of the Bill . the Bill be about people : victim and survivor . the Bill have be create and draft with they at its heart . it be about put they back at the forefront of the justice system , where they belong , because without they we would have no justice system . turn to the amendment that have be propose , I join the shadow Minister in thank all the witness who give evidence to the Bill Committee . they really help to shape the Bill . it be because of their contribution and the strength of feeling of victim , as well as of right hon . and hon . member in this place and the other place , that we have go far in extend the measure in the Bill . when I and the Government hear the strength of feeling in the House , we be afraid to act . that be why I have commit at this Dispatch Box to go far again , look at the unduly lenient sentence scheme and victim impact statement . it be right that the Law Commission be currently look at the unduly lenient sentence scheme but , as I say in my opening remark , I will be monitor that closely as the Bill progress in the other place . we be look at how we can well support victim , so that they have representation when they feel that justice have not be fully serve . the shadow Minister and the hon . member for Meriden and Solihull East ( Saqib Bhatti ) — I have the pleasure of meeting with his constituent — raise the four - year time limit . this be a novel measure , and I be grateful to Opposition Front Benchers for their support and for recognise that this be just the beginning . we will not fail to go far , follow how this be implement and the potential consequence for the family court . this be just the start and if it work , the Government will act and go far , but we need to test this properly . the hon . Member also ask whether the Bill will capture future child . I can confirm from the Dispatch Box that it will cover all child who exist at the time of sentencing for whom the perpetrator have parental responsibility . we can not bind future child or child yet to be bear . however , necessary safeguard will be in place through the family court . should that perpetrator come out of prison and go on to have other child , and should they be at risk , the normal route to strip parental responsibility in the family court will still exist . unfortunately , we be unable to bind future , hypothetical child , but this Bill will cover any child who exist at the point of sentencing for whom the perpetrator have parental responsibility . I really welcome this Government ' s move to restrict the access of abuser to their child , in order to protect they . all too often , however , victim who be member of tightly knit , small religious group be pressure to interact with their abuser when they get out of prison . some religious leader and organisation that I be aware of commonly tell victim that God have forgive their abuser and they therefore need to do so as well . in some case , I have see those victim be ostracise or shun if they refuse to engage . do the Minister agree that the Government need to think about how we can seek to resolve that cultural problem in small religious group ? I thank my hon . friend for that thoughtful intervention , and he be right . we need to get this right for all victim of all crime — that include intersectionality and vulnerable victim . that point speak to the heart of the amendment table by my hon . friend the Member for Lowestoft ( Jess Asato ) in relation to by - and - for service and specialist support service . she mention jewish support charity , and I be meet jewish Women ' s aid tomorrow to talk about how we can well support they . she be right that this have to be holistic and comprehensive , because one size do not fit all when it come to victim of these crime . I place on record once again my gratitude to the Minister for the time that she give to meet with Bethan and her parent on this serious issue . the change that come about really do restore many people ' s faith in what we do . I thank the hon . Gentleman again for his time and for his support in provide help to Bethan and her parent . meet they and hear their story be a privilege , and it be in their name that we have go far today in this Bill . it be for they and for all victim and survivor that we stand here to do more . as other member have say this evening , the difference that be in government make be that we can actually do those change . let I come to some of the other amendment table . I welcome the Liberal Democrat spokesperson , the hon . member for Chichester ( Jess Brown - Fuller ) , to her place — this be the first time in the Chamber that we have have the opportunity to discuss issue of justice . I have a fantastic , collaborative relationship with her predecessor , and I look forward to continue that as we work on these issue . she mention specifically the resource available for the helpline that will be set up to allow victim a direct route to provide information about their case , which be essential . we , too , be conscious of resource , and we will continue to monitor and refine the resource require for the helpline . where possible , we will of course act if there be demand . we feel that currently resource there be need , as be set out in the impact statement , but we will keep that under review and will not hesitate to act in the fiscal environment give . the hon . member for Chichester also mention new clause 7 , about extend eligibility for the victim contact scheme . she will know that we have extend that eligibility in the Bill . again , we will keep that under review if there be a need to expand it far and look at how we can well support victim . the hon . member for St Ives ( Andrew George ) mention the right to know in relation the victim contact scheme and the victim code . we will launch a consultation later this year on victim right and the victim code , look at exactly what should be in there and how good we can support victim . I encourage all victim , survivor and member to feed into that . he know that the door remain open for I to meet his constituent Tina Nash to discuss her issue at first hand and see how I can well support she and other vulnerable victim who be disabled throughout the process . I have discuss this issue with the Minister , and she know about it because we have also correspond on it . I know that my constituent would be enormously grateful to have an opportunity to meet she , and I be very grateful for her response . I look forward to meet the hon . Gentleman and his constituent in due course to discuss the failing in the criminal justice system that lead to her experience . no victim should go through what she do , and I stand ready to support she and improve the situation . let I turn to the amendment in the name of the hon . member for Maidenhead ( Mr Reynolds ) , which I touch on in my opening remark . I know that my hon . friend the Member for Rochester and Strood ( Lauren Edwards ) , the Opposition Front Bench spokesperson , the hon . member for Bexhill and Battle ( Dr Mullan ) , and other in this Chamber speak to that amendment . I know that many member will have have horrify casework in which family be stick try to differentiate between a language barrier and a different jurisdiction or legal system , all while try to get answer on what have happen to their love one . that be unacceptable . I remain of the view that the victim code be not the right place for these victim to have that framework , because the victim code be base on the justice system in England and Wales . it do not apply , and it be not right . however , I be committed , and I have already meet with the Minister in the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , my hon . friend the Member for Lincoln ( Mr Falconer ) , to discuss the fcdo and the MOJ work together on how good we can support victim , and work with the Victims ' Commissioner and the charity murder abroad on create the dedicated framework and guidance on what victim in this country can expect . I thank my hon . friend for give way in a crucial part of her speech . in the work that she be do , I implore she to remember my constituent , whose sister Rita Roberts be brutally murder in 1992 and not formally identify until 2023 . Rita have still not have justice , as she be murder abroad , and her family be desperate for any support that the Minister can give . I thank my hon . friend for raise that case . it be a horrific case that I know all too well , because the previous Member for Cardiff West , who be now in the other place , raise it previously and seek to support Rita ' s family . I will seek to support they in any way I can and will work with the fcdo , because justice delay be justice deny for anyone , regardless of where they be . I make the commitment to the hon . member for Maidenhead that we will find the right way forward to support these family , but I do not believe that his amendment be the right one , so I implore he to withdraw it . I turn to my hon . friend the Member for Bristol East ( Kerry McCarthy ) , who be right : these be invisible child and we must do more to protect they . this be not just about identify they and their parent , who be the perpetrator ; it be about support those child and well identify they , and I make that commitment to she . she ask I directly about how we be go to do this . the Minister responsible for sentencing and the Children ' s Minister have meet to discuss this issue and hold a roundtable with organisation to look at the good way of do this , and I will impress on they my hon . friend ' s desire for they to move quickly and involve she in how good to bring this forward . I will discuss the amendment on restorative justice table by the hon . member for Wimbledon ( Mr Kohler ) . I encourage all member of this place to go and see the play " Punch " , which be outstanding — it be probably the good example of restorative justice that anyone can see . restorative justice be not right for every victim and will not work for everyone ; it need consent from both the victim and the perpetrator . it will not be right for every crime , but in certain crime it be appropriate and can provide well victim outcome and lower reoffende rate . the Prisons Minister and the new Secretary of State be passionate believer in that . we be look closely at this issue as a Department and will continue to work with the hon . Gentleman to see how good we can bring out restorative justice programme across the Ministry of Justice . I come to my hon . friend the Member for Forest of Dean ( Matt Bishop ) . I think we have already discuss his commitment to these victim and family for justice , and I pay tribute to he . I be commit to work far on the unduly lenient sentencing scheme to ensure that victim have the right to redress and to complain in an appropriate time , and that the victim impact statement be fit for purpose and represent that victim ' s voice . for Katie Brett , the Youens family and all those who feel that they have be silence , I make that commitment today . we also need that clarity in sentencing and transparency on what a sentence actually be , and I wholeheartedly agree with my hon . friend . my hon . friend the Members for Lowestoft and for Calder Valley ( Josh Fenton - Glynn ) talk about the need for vital support service , and they be right . without the vital support service that support victim and survivor , we do not have victim and survivor engage in a criminal justice system . there need to be a multi - year settlement — my hon . friend the Member for Lowestoft mention that as well — to ensure that they be sustainable , effective and there to support victim . those organisation know that we be currently go through the financial allocation process in the Ministry of Justice . we be due to complete that process very soon , because I know that these vital organisation need certainty as to the sustainability of their future , and I have commit to they that I will provide it soon . I also hear their call for more support for child victim . again , that be something I will be look at as part of the consultation on the victim code later this year , because although we have identify that child can be victim in their own right , there be little to support they , and they deserve support too . I be committed to work with my hon . friend the Member for Lowestoft and other hon . member to get this right . my hon . friend the Member for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) and I have speak many time about the efficiency and effectiveness of the criminal injury compensation scheme . change in this area can not be piecemeal ; we need proper change if victim be to be support , if they be to have redress , and if they be to have the recognition that they so vitally need — that something have happen to they , and that they be a victim . as my hon . Friend mention , there be discretion in the scheme . there be many reason for that , but she be right that the scheme do not work . we have hear that time and again , and I be committed to work with she to determine what scheme should be in place to support victim and survivor . I want to hear from they directly , and I be also keen to hear from Quebec — which my hon . friend mention — about how the scheme there operate . if we can learn about good practice internationally , we should do so . but most importantly , we need an effective and sustainable redress scheme for victim of violent crime . finally , I wish to pay tribute , as other have do , to my hon . friend the Members for Penistone and Stocksbridge ( Dr Tidball ) , for Bolsover ( Natalie Fleet ) and for Lowestoft , and to every single member in this place who have stand up and discuss the need for change through this Bill . they have speak from their heart . they have speak with bravery and with live experience about what be need to support victim and survivor . never let anyone tell you that have a Labour Government do not make a difference . what be the difference ? it be deliver for victim — deed , not word . that be what we be do in this Chamber this evening . we be make that difference , deliver for Claire Throssell , Jan Mustafa , Sabina Nessa , Olivia Pratt - Korbel , and the countless other victim who have be fail by the criminal justice system . that be the difference a Labour Government make . I commend this Bill to the House . question put and agree to . new clause 13 accordingly read a second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 14 - restriction of parental responsibility for child conceive as a result of rape " after section 10d of the Children Act 1989 ( review of order make under section 10c ) ( insert by section 3 ) insert — " 10e Duty to make prohibit step order follow rape ( 1 ) this section apply where the Crown Court — ( a ) sentence a person ( ' the offender ' ) for an offence under section 1 of the Sexual Offences Act 2003 ( rape ) , and ( b ) be satisfied that a child ( ' the child ' ) for whom the offender have parental responsibility be conceive as a result of the rape . ( 2 ) the Crown Court must make a prohibit step order when sentence the offender . ( 3 ) the order must — ( a ) specify that no step of any kind which could be take by a parent in meet their parental responsibility for a child may be take by the offender with respect to the child without the consent of the High Court or the family court , and ( b ) be make to have effect until the order be varied or discharge by the High Court or the family court . ( 4 ) but the Crown Court must not make a prohibit step order under this section if — ( a ) make the order be prohibit by section 29 ( 3 ) of the Adoption and Children Act 2002 , ( b ) a prohibit step order be already in force that meet the requirement in subsection ( 3 ) , or ( c ) it appear to the Crown Court that it would not be in the interest of justice to do so . ( 5 ) a prohibit step order make under this section do not cease to have effect if the offender be acquit of the offence on appeal , but see section 10 g . ( 6 ) Sections 1 , 7 and 11 do not apply where the Crown Court proceed under this section . ( 7 ) a prohibit step order make under this section be to be treat for the purpose of section 31f ( 6 ) of the Matrimonial and Family Proceedings Act 1984 ( proceeding and decision ) as if it be make by the family court . ( 8 ) the Crown Court do not have jurisdiction to entertain any proceeding in connection with the enforcement of a prohibit step order make under this section . ( 9 ) a reference in this Act to an order under this section include , so far as the context permit , an order vary or discharge it . 10f duty to apply to court where child may have be conceive as a result of rape ( 1 ) this section apply where — ( a ) the Crown Court sentence a person ( ' the offender ' ) for an offence under section 1 of the Sexual Offences Act 2003 ( rape ) , ( b ) the Crown Court be satisfied that there be a child ( ' the child ' ) for whom the offender have parental responsibility , ( c ) the Crown Court consider that the child may have be conceive as a result of the rape , and ( d ) section 10e do not apply . ( 2 ) the Crown Court must notify the local authority that be the relevant local authority at the time the offender be sentence ( if any ) of the matter set out in subsection ( 1 ) . ( 3 ) the notification under subsection ( 2 ) must be give before the end of the period of 30 day begin with the day after the day on which the offender be sentence . ( 4 ) before the end of the period of six month begin with the day after the day on which the Crown Court notifie the local authority under subsection ( 2 ) , the local authority must make enquiry into whether — ( a ) the victim of the rape , or ( b ) if the victim be deceased , any person with parental responsibility for the child other than the offender , consent to an application be make to the court ( see section 92 ( 7 ) ) for the court to determine whether to make a section 8 order . ( 5 ) if consent be give , the local authority must make that application as soon as be reasonably practicable and in any event before the end of the period of 30 day begin with the day after the day on which the consent be give . ( 6 ) subsection ( 4 ) and ( 5 ) do not apply if the local authority be satisfied that the court would not have jurisdiction to make a section 8 order ( see section 2 and 3 of the Family Law Act 1986 ) . ( 7 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation amend the period specify in subsection ( 3 ) , ( 4 ) and ( 5 ) . ( 8 ) in this section , ' relevant local authority ' mean — ( a ) where the child be ordinarily resident within the area of a local authority in England or Wales , that local authority ; ( b ) where the child do not fall within paragraph ( a ) but be present within the area of a local authority in England or Wales , that local authority . 10 G Review of order make under section 10e or follow an application under section 10f ( 1 ) this section apply where — ( a ) either — ( i ) a prohibit step order have be make under section 10e , or ( ii ) an order under Part II have be make follow an application under section 10f , and ( b ) the offender be acquit of the offence follow an appeal . ( 2 ) the local authority that be the relevant local authority at the time the verdict of acquittal be enter ( if any ) must make an application to the court ( see section 92 ( 7 ) ) to review the order . ( 3 ) an application under this section must be make as soon as be reasonably practicable and in any event before the end of the period of 30 day begin with the day after the day on which the verdict of acquittal be enter . ( 4 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation amend the period specify in subsection ( 3 ) . ( 5 ) in this section , ' relevant local authority ' mean — ( a ) where the child with respect to whom the order be make be ordinarily resident within the area of a local authority in England or Wales , that local authority ; ( b ) where the child with respect to whom the order be make do not fall within paragraph ( a ) but be present within the area of a local authority in England or Wales , that local authority . " " — ( Alex Davies - Jones . ) this new clause , to be insert after clause 3 , require the Crown Court to restrict the parental responsibility of a person convict of rape where a child be conceive as a result . if it be unclear whether the child be so conceived , the local authority must apply to the family court . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 4 - victim personal statement " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State shall , within six month of the passing of this Act , issue revise guidance on the content of victim personal statement . ( 2 ) the revised guidance issue under subsection ( 1 ) must stipulate that when make a victim personal statement , a victim shall be able to say anything they wish about the defendant , provide it be not contrary to any statutory limitation on free speech , make allegation of untried criminal conduct or be disorderly language . ( 3 ) the court must disregard any prejudicial comment make during a victim personal statement . " — ( Dr Mullan . ) this new clause would require the Secretary of State to review how to make victim personal statement less restrictive and clarify what can be include . bring up , and read the first time . question put , that the clause be read a second time . Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Christopher Chope James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock Victoria Collins Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Mims Davies Bobby Dean Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Luke Evans Nigel Farage Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Z ö e Franklin Louie French Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Andrew George Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Alicia Kearns Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Mike Martin Jerome Mayhew Charlie Maynard James McMurdock John Milne Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Tessa Munt Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Shivani Raja David Reed Joshua Reynolds Gavin Robinson Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Martin Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Mike Wood Martin Wrigley Claire Young Ashley Fox Nick Timothy Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Shockat Adam Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Lewis Atkinson David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Ann Davies Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Jim Dickson Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Adnan Hussain Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Ayoub Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Ben Lake Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Llinos Medi Anneliese Midgley Ed Miliband Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Chris Murray James Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Alex Norris Dan Norris Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Jonathan Pearce Toby Perkins Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Liz Saville - Roberts Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Laurence Turner Liz Twist Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Paul Waugh Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Mark Ferguson Imogen Walker the House divide : Ayes 152 , Noes 337 . question accordingly negative . New Clause 7 - extension of Victim Contact Scheme " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must ensure that the Victim Contact Scheme be make available to — ( a ) victim of offender sentence to less than 12 month for violent and sexual offence , ( b ) victim in case involve coercive or control behaviour , stalk , or harassment , and ( c ) bereaved family in manslaughter or death by dangerous driving case . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State must ensure that information under the Victim Contact Scheme be communicate in a timely and trauma - inform manner . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State must publish datum each year on uptake and accessibility of the Victim Contact Scheme . " — ( Jess Brown - Fuller . ) this new clause would require the Secretary of State to extend the Victim Contact Scheme to certain category of victim . it would also ensure information be provide in a timely , trauma - inform way and require annual reporting on the Scheme ' s uptake and accessibility . bring up , and read the first time . question put , that the clause be read a second time . Shockat Adam Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Ellie chown James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock Victoria Collins Jeremy Corbyn Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Ann davy Gareth davy Mims davy Bobby Dean Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Luke Evans Nigel Farage Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Louie French Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Andrew George Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Adnan Hussain Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Alicia Kearns Ayoub Khan Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Ben Lake Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Mike Martin Jerome Mayhew Charlie Maynard James McMurdock Llinos Medi John Milne Iqbal Mohamed Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Tessa Munt Susan Murray Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Shivani Raja Adrian Ramsay David Reed Joshua Reynolds Gavin Robinson Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Nick Timothy Martin Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Mike Wood Martin Wrigley Z ö e Franklin Claire Young Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Jim Allister Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Lewis Atkinson David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Jim Dickson Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Maria Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Ed Miliband Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Chris Murray James Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Alex Norris Dan Norris Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Jonathan Pearce Toby Perkins Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Laurence Turner Liz Twist Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Paul Waugh Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Imogen Walker Mark Ferguson the House divide : Ayes 165 , Noes 323 . question accordingly negative . New Clause 12 - application of the Victims ' Code in respect of victim of murder , manslaughter or infanticide abroad " ( 1 ) the Victims and Prisoners Act 2024 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) after section 2 , insert — ' 2A Application of the victim ' code in respect of victim of murder , manslaughter or infanticide abroad ( 1 ) this section apply in respect of victim as define under section 1 ( 2 ) ( c ) who be a close relative of a british National resident in England and Wales , who be the victim of — ( a ) murder ; ( b ) manslaughter ; or ( c ) infanticide , commit outside the UK . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State must by regulation issue an appendix to the victim ' code , set out how the code apply to victim in the circumstance set out in subsection ( 1 ) . ( 3 ) the appendix must set out the service to be provide to victim as define under subsection ( 1 ) by those person base in England and Wales appear to the Secretary of State to have function of a public nature relate to — ( a ) victim , or ( b ) any aspect of the criminal justice system . ( 4 ) the appendix must make provision for service base in England and Wales which reflect the principle that victim require — ( a ) information to help they understand the criminal justice process ; ( b ) access to service within England and Wales which provide they with emotional and practical support ( include , where appropriate , specialist service ) ; ( c ) in circumstance where the criminal justice process be engage in England and Wales , the opportunity to make their view hear in the criminal justice process ; and ( d ) the ability to challenge decision which have a direct impact on they . ( 5 ) in set out the service to be provide to victim under this section , the Secretary of State must specify the following : ( a ) how such service will be provide with accessible information ; ( b ) how they access emotional and practical support . ' " — ( Mr Joshua Reynolds . ) this new clause require the Secretary of State to create an appendix to the Victims ' code which outline how the code apply to victim whose close relative be the victim of murder , manslaughter or infanticide outside the UK . bring up , and read the first time . question put , that the clause be read a second time . Shockat Adam Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Christopher Chope Ellie chown James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock Victoria Collins Jeremy Corbyn Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Ann davy Gareth davy Mims davy Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Luke Evans Nigel Farage Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Louie French Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Andrew George Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Adnan Hussain Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Alicia Kearns Ayoub Khan Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Ben Lake Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Jerome Mayhew Charlie Maynard James McMurdock Llinos Medi John Milne Iqbal Mohamed Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Tessa Munt Susan Murray Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Shivani Raja Adrian Ramsay David Reed Joshua Reynolds Gavin Robinson Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Nick Timothy Martin Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Mike Wood Martin Wrigley Z ö e Franklin Claire Young Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Lewis Atkinson David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Jim Dickson Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Maria Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Ed Miliband Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Chris Murray James Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Alex Norris Dan Norris Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Jonathan Pearce Toby Perkins Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Laurence Turner Liz Twist Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Paul Waugh Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Imogen Walker Mark Ferguson the House divide : Ayes 166 , Noes 322 . question accordingly negative . clause 3 - restrict parental responsibility of certain sex offender Amendments make : 10 , page 6 , line 2 , leave out " for whom the offender have parental responsibility " and insert " , and ( b ) the offender have parental responsibility for at least one child . " " this would require the court to make an order restrict parental responsibility in all case where an offender be sentence to a relevant sentence for a serious sexual offence against a child . the duty would no long be limit to case where the offender have parental responsibility for the victim . amendment 11 , page 7 , line 11 , after " reduce " insert " ( if any ) " . — ( Alex Davies - Jones . ) this amendment clarify that the obligation to apply for a review of a prohibit step order under section 10d of the Children Act 1989 ( insert by clause 3 ) do not apply if there be no relevant local authority . clause 4 - section 3 : consequential amendment Amendments make : 12 , page 7 , line 33 , leave out " ( 2 ) " and insert " ( 1A ) " . this amendment be consequential on NC14 and Amendment 13 . amendment 13 , page 7 , line 33 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) in section 8 ( 3 ) , after " 10a " insert " , 10c or 10e " . " this amendment provide that proceeding in the Crown Court under section 10c ( insert by clause 3 ) or 10e ( insert by amendment NC14 ) of the Children Act 1989 will not constitute " family proceeding " for the purpose of that Act . Amendment 14 , page 7 , line 35 , leave out " or 10c " and insert " , 10c or 10e " . this amendment be consequential on NC14 . amendment 15 , page 8 , line 4 , at end insert — " ( 3A ) in section 10b , in subsection ( 2 ) , after " make " insert " ( if any ) " . " this amendment clarify that the obligation to apply for a review of a prohibit step order under section 10b of the Children Act 1989 do not apply if there be no relevant local authority . amendment 16 , page 8 , line 7 , leave out " or 10c " and insert " , 10c or 10e " . this amendment be consequential on NC14 . amendment 17 , page 8 , line 10 , leave out " or 10c " and insert " , 10c or 10e " . this amendment be consequential on NC14 . Amendment 18 , page 8 , line 10 , at end insert — " ( b ) after subsection ( 14 ) insert — " ( 14a ) the reference in subsection ( 14 ) and section 91a ( 5 ) ( a ) ( iii ) to the disposal of an application include an application under the follow provision — section 10b , section 10d , section 10f , or section 10 g . " " this amendment confirm that the family court have the power to make an order under section 91 ( 14 ) of the Children Act 1989 restrain the making of further application pursuant to an application under the list provision . amendment 19 , page 8 , line 12 , leave out " after " 10b ( 6 ) " insert " 10c ( 11 ) or 10d ( 4 ) " " and insert " for " section 10b ( 6 ) " substitute " — section 10b ( 6 ) , section 10c ( 11 ) , section 10d ( 4 ) , section 10f ( 7 ) , or section 10 g ( 4 ) . " " this amendment be consequential on NC14 . amendment 20 , page 8 , line 14 , leave out " or 10c " and insert " , 10c or 10e " . this amendment be consequential on NC14 . amendment 21 , clause 4 , page 8 , line 17 , leave out " and 10c " and insert " , 10c and 10e " . — ( Alex Davies - Jones . ) this amendment be consequential on NC14 . clause 11 - Reviews of Sentencing : time limit Amendment propose : 5 , page 12 , line 23 , after " ( 2 ) " insert " unless an application be make by a victim , or their deceased victim ' s next of kin , in which case notice of an application shall be give within one year . " — ( Dr Mullan . ) this amendment increase the window for apply to the Unduly Lenient Sentences Scheme to one year for a victim of a crime or a deceased victim ' s next of kin . question put , that the amendment be make . Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Christopher Chope James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock Victoria Collins Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Ann davy Gareth davy Mims davy Bobby Dean Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Luke Evans Nigel Farage Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Z ö e Franklin Louie French Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Andrew George Rachel Gilmour John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Alicia Kearns Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Ben Lake Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Mike Martin Jerome Mayhew Charlie Maynard Llinos Medi John Milne Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Helen Morgan Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Tessa Munt Susan Murray Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Shivani Raja David Reed Joshua Reynolds Gavin Robinson Andrew Rosindell Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Martin Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Mike Wood Martin Wrigley Claire Young Ashley Fox Nick Timothy Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Shockat Adam Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Lewis Atkinson David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Rachel Blake Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Jim Dickson Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Maria Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Chris Hinchliff Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Adnan Hussain Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Ayoub Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Ed Miliband Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Chris Murray James Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Alex Norris Dan Norris Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Jonathan Pearce Toby Perkins Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Laurence Turner Liz Twist Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Paul Waugh Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Imogen Walker Mark Ferguson the House divide : Ayes 153 , Noes 332 . question accordingly negative . third read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read the third time . I begin by place on the record my thank to the Whips , the Parliamentary Business and Legislation Committee and all the brilliant , dedicated official at the Ministry of Justice who have work so hard to bring this legislation forward . particular thank go to Rachel Bennion , Hayley Newell and Cassie Blower . I also pay tribute to London Victims Commissioner Claire Waxman and Victims Commissioner Baroness Newlove in the other place , as well as Domestic Abuse Commissioner Dame Nicole Jacobs . I thank all right hon . and hon . member across the House for their thoughtful contribution so far . they have all help to shape this Bill , which will strengthen our justice system and make it one that be more responsive to victim , tackle delay in our criminal court and deliver swifter and fair justice . when the Government take office in July last year , we inherit a justice system in utter crisis , with record and rise backlog in the criminal court delay justice for too many people and victim more likely to be an afterthought than an important , integral part of the process . reform of the system be essential , and this legislation will mark that significant step forward , but I have be clear that this be just the beginning . the Bill at its core be about transform the experience of victim throughout the criminal justice system . it will introduce measure to ensure that victim be hear , support and treat with the dignity they deserve , and it will improve the efficiency and fairness of our court . may I congratulate my hon . friend on pilot the Bill through the House ? it be an excellent piece of legislation that will make a real difference to victim . but , as she say , it be just a start . will she and the Department rededicate themselves to bring down that Crown court backlog ? speedy justice be what victim want . absolutely . I thank my hon . friend the Chair of the Justice Committee for hold our foot to the fire as a government to ensure that we bear down on that backlog . the Minister of State , my hon . and learn Friend the Member for Finchley and Golders Green ( Sarah Sackman ) , be ensure that we deliver for victim by bring down that backlog , with record investment in our court system , record sitting day and look at the reform bring forward and the recommendation of Sir Brian Leveson in his once - in - a - generation review . it be only when we get on top of that court backlog that justice can be deliver and victim will feel it have be do . the Bill be a key part of the Government ' s plan for change . it will deliver on many of our manifesto commitment to support and protect victim , restore confidence in our justice system and implement that swifter and fair justice . I urge all hon . member on both side of the House to support its passage into law . I proudly commend the Bill to the House . I call the shadow Minister . it be my pleasure to speak on Third Reading of the Victims and Courts Bill . victim and their family should be at the heart of our justice system . the main goal of the justice system — as well as keep the public safe — should be to deliver exactly that : justice for victim and their family . all too often , for many year , it have not do that as often as it could . the Bill have present we with a number of way in which we can at least improve how the system work by do more to make life easy for victim and their family , help to respond to their need and do more to give they a voice . the Bill have bring forward measure to support family and child by restrict the responsibility of parent who be not fit to have a presumption of parental responsibility . it will also see an expand role and power for the Victims ' Commissioner . I have see at first hand the effectiveness of that office under Baroness Newlove and I be sure that her successor will make great use of those new tool . the new measure around the victim contact scheme will also help victim feel like they know what be happen with the criminal who have harm they , with access to information they have a right to . I be disappointed , however , that the Government and Labour mp have refuse to accept two clear route forward to further weight the justice system towards victim and their family . the Opposition ' s propose change to the unduly lenient sentence scheme and the victim personal statement have widespread support from across victim ' advocate , include Justice for Victims , the Victims ' Commissioner , the Domestic Abuse Commissioner and Victim Support . hon . member will know that have such a wide coalition come forward with proposal for sensible reform when Labour Members be in opposition , they would not have hesitate to back they . there be simply no good excuse for their have vote against they tonight . the Bill be important and bring forward a range of important measure , so , as I be sure the Minister would expect , we will not oppose it . I pay tribute again to the victim and victim ' organisation . Most of the measure in the Bill start with they . I hope that Labour mp will reflect on the measure they be still resist and , in future stage , reconsider their decision to vote against they . those measure would improve the Bill , improve our justice system and help future victim avoid some of the experience that have force victim and their family into be campaigner . they do not want to be campaigner ; they feel that they have to be . the measure that the opposition propose with their support be aim at stop other people in future from have to be campaigner . but let we be clear : these measure and the Bill do not sit in isolation . I say at the outset that victim want justice . for the bad offender , that mean be properly punish by be send to prison for a long time . I suggest to the Minister and Labour mp that all the victim these measure be aim to help , and all the people and campaign group they speak to in support of these measure , will be appal that at the same time that the Government be give this , they be take away with the other hand in a truly appalling way . many of the campaign and measure relate to violence and sexual offence , yet this week the Government will ask mps to vote through clause that will allow thousand of violent and sexual offender out of prison early — [ interruption . ] the Minister say from a sedentary position that that be not true , but more than 60 % of rapist send to prison will get out of prison early . today , we have a discussion of the appalling , mistaken release of Hadush Kebatu . he be convict of sexual assault . More than 85 % of offender send to prison — order . Mr Mullan , we have to make sure that your speech be in scope of this Bill . I assume that you be come to a sharp conclusion . it be in scope , Madam Deputy Speaker , because we be talk about measure that apply — order . if I have confirm that it be not in scope for Third Reading , then it be not in scope . conclude swiftly ! as I have say , many of the measure in the Bill be welcome , but we have to be extremely mindful that what we be do in other proceeding in this House do not fatally undermine they and end up leave victim feel bad off after the positive measure that the Bill have bring forward . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read the third time and pass . business without Debate Delegated Legislation with the leave of the House , I will put motion 2 to 5 together . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , company that the draft company ( director ' report ) ( Payment Reporting ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 17 July , be approve . transport that the draft Protection of Freedoms Act 2012 ( definition of Relevant Land ) ( amendment ) Order 2025 , which be lay before this House on 8 September , be approve . Financial Services that the draft Financial Services ( Overseas Recognition Regime Designations ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 15 July , be approve . environmental Protection that the draft Control of Mercury ( Enforcement ) ( Amendment ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 17 July , be approve . — ( Deirdre Costigan . ) question agree to . committee we have a substantial number of motion to move so , with the leave of the House , I will take they collectively . order , Business and Trade that Gregor Poynton and Rosie wrighting be discharge from the Business and Trade Committee and Daniel Aldridge and Justin Madders be add . culture , Media and Sport that James Frith , Tom Rutland and Paul Waugh be discharge from the Culture , Media and Sport Committee and Vicky Foxcroft , Anneliese Midgley and Jeff Smith be add . environment , Food and Rural Affairs that Andrew Pakes be discharge from the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee and Terry Jermy be add . Foreign Affairs that Blair McDougall be discharge from the Foreign Affairs Committee and Fleur Anderson be add . Home Affairs that Jake Richards , Shaun Davies and Conor Rand be discharge from the Home Affairs Committee and Lewis Atkinson , Peter Prinsley and Jo White be add . housing , Communities and Local Government that Naushabah Khan and Joe Powell be discharge from the Housing , Communities and Local Government Committee and Sean Woodcock and Andrew Cooper be add . International Development that Alice MacDonald be discharge from the International Development Committee and Janet Daby be add . justice that Mike Tapp be discharge from the Justice Committee and Tony Vaughan be add . public Accounts that Nesil Caliskan and Luke Charters be discharge from the Committee of Public Accounts and Catherine McKinnell and Tristan Osborne be add . science , Innovation and Technology that Steve Race and Jon Pearce be discharge from the Science , Innovation and Technology Committee and Samantha Niblett and Daniel Zeichner be add . transport that Catherine Atkinson be discharge from the Transport Committee and Jacob Collier be add . Treasury that Lola McEvoy , Jeevun Sandher and Rachel Blake be discharge from the Treasury Committee and Jim Dickson , Luke Murphy and Catherine West be add . woman and equality that Kirith Entwistle , Natalie Fleet and Catherine Fookes be discharge from the Women and Equalities Committee and Kevin McKenna , Kim Leadbeater and Nadia Whittome be add . work and Pensions that David Pinto - Duschinsky , Gill German and Frank McNally be discharge from the Work and Pensions Committee and Lee Barron , David Baines and Rushanara Ali be add . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) regulation and Inspection of Funeral Services Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Deirdre Costigan . ) there be many issue that will divide this House and many issue that will divide society , but one thing that probably unite all of we , and indeed society , be that we have a legitimate expectation of decent and respectful treatment for our dead . I do not think that be ask too much . the vast majority of funeral director , crematoria and hospital morgue treat the deceased with the decency and respect that we would expect and hope for ourselves . Most of the apple operate in the funeral barrel , if I can put it like that , be good one , but we all know that there be rotten apple in every barrel . it have long be recognise that this be a sector that operate in good faith and on a belief — often misplace — that our expectation of the decency and respect to be show to the deceased will prevail in all circumstance . I be not suggest that government have shy away from this , pretend to turn a blind eye , as it be , but probably in the general scheme of thing , until some recent high - profile incident , they have not really think to think about it , in the presumption that everything work well and as we would expect . we will all remember the Fuller inquiry and the interim report that come out from that . when I be the local Government Minister , the then junior Minister at the Ministry of Justice , Mike Freer , and I work closely on this . I be delighted to see the hon . member for Kingston upon Hull West and Haltemprice ( Emma Hardy ) , with whom I work closely some month back on a constituency case of hers . I be delighted to see she in her place , know the keen interest she have take on behalf of her constituent . I ask the then parliamentary under - Secretary for the Ministry of Justice , the hon . member for Scunthorpe ( Sir Nicholas Dakin ) , on 22 January what change be be propose to licensing , or to bring in licensing , in the funeral home sector . the reply be — let I put it this way — benign . his write reply say it be a " complex and sensitive matter that demand careful consideration to ensure a response that effectively safeguard the public . " on the latter bit , we can all agree . it be a " complex and sensitive matter " be true . I would argue that it have already have that " careful consideration " . when one consider all the retail outlet and other — be they tattoo parlour , nail bar , caf é s , burger bar , hairdresser , beauty salon and the like — that be regulate and inspect , it do seem strange that the funeral sector be effectively leave to its own device . I know that sometimes Government and Members of Parliament press for licensing , regulation or bind code of conduct very much against the will of the sector and find themselves in this great tussle . but the Association of Green Funeral Directors , the National Society of Allied and Independent Funeral Directors and the National Association of Funeral Directors — I just want to pause to pay warm and fulsome tribute to the latter two for how they help Mike Freer and I when we be minister try to grapple with this when the situation be boil up . those three organisation , together with the Co - op , represent somewhere between 75 % and 85 % of funeral operator in this country . they be all desperate for either a licensing regime or an inspection regime . society be effectively say to the trade body , which have a bit of muscle but no tooth , that they should impose standard of operation across the whole of the sector . I think the country at large would welcome regulation and inspection , and the trade body , which represent between three quarter and 85 % of operator , be also clamour for that . the hon . Member shed a light on an area that I have only just come to , and that be through a piece of casework . it be absolutely devastating to receive a piece of casework about abysmal funeral service , which include the mis - selling of a plot in a local cemetery , extortionate funeral cost and countless issue with a private funeral company . do he agree that it be unacceptable that private cemetery be almost entirely unregulated and be govern by burial act from the 1800 , which frankly be wildly out of date ? I do agree . in many respect , the only bit of legislation on which we can rest a serious prosecution be the Burial Act 1857 , which deal with the corpse post internment . it be silent on the corpse ' s treatment from the point of death through to the point of either internment or cremation . there be an enormous vacuum in the rule and regulation that I think most fair - minded people would say need to be fill . I commend the hon . gentleman for secure the debate . this be the second Adjournment debate of his in which I have be involve in the last six month . he bring to the House subject that be pertinent not just to North Dorset but to every constituency across the whole United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland . do the hon . Gentleman agree that such an intimate and essential service for people at the most vulnerable time of their life must be of the high standard ? we have wonderful funeral company such as Clarke ' s and Adair ' s in my Strangford constituency , but we sometimes hear dreadful story of horrific service . the fact that we regulate nail salon but not funeral service indicate that we need to consider ensure a minimum level of service protection , and that the Government , and the Minister in particular , should at the very least instil some form of accountability into the process . I fundamentally agree with what the hon . Gentleman say , as would the lion ' s share of operator , because they be acutely aware of a crisis of public confidence in the sector ' s ability to deliver . the hon . Gentleman be make an excellent speech on an incredibly difficult topic . next month , I be bring two mum from Leeds down to meet the Victims Minister . they tragically lose their baby in different circumstance , but both go to the same funeral director , who do horrific thing with their baby ' body . the police find nothing actionable because there be no regulation of the funeral industry . that need to change . the hon . Gentleman talk about the public ' s reaction , so do he agree that the more case that come to light , the more the public realise what be possible in the funeral sector right now and the loud their call for regulation will grow ? I urge the Minister to recognise the urgent need to address this issue . I be very sorry to hear what the hon . Gentleman have relay ; I know that the whole House will send prayer , thought and sympathy to his constituent . what a terrible thing to be deal with in what be already tragically sad circumstance . he be right to urge the Minister to give a turbocharged and energised response . as a society , our relationship with funeral be change . we have become , as we know , a more secular society , so we be look for other way to deal with funeral service , rather than the traditional church service and so on . the covid pandemic certainly expedite the — I do not necessarily use this term in a disparaging sense — cheap , fast and more streamlined approach to deal with the deceased . funeral have become very expensive , when do well , because funeral director have cost that need to be meet , which be why we have see this great rash of advert . anyone who watch any daytime commercial television will know that those over 55 be well insured — I qualify by a year . I be tell there be plenty of machine for those who have difficulty get out of a chair or a bed , and they can press a button and spring up and out like Zebedee . and there be 101 different funeral plan provider who will meet people ' s need very cheaply indeed . there be little or no doubt that the lion ' s share of operator be legit , above board , do their good and do it well , but the absence of regulation mean that , if we so wish , the Minister and I could set up a funeral director . we do not need a licence . on that point , will my hon . friend give way ? let I just continue . the Minister and I would not need a licence and we would not be inspect ; all we would have to do be put up a sign say " Funeral Directors " with the hour of operation on it . that can not be right . it can not be right that when a funeral director be run out of credit with their local crematorium they can transport a corpse from one end of the country to the other without any paperwork . if my hon . friend the Member for Keighley and Ilkley ( Robbie Moore ) and other involve in livestock farming want to move one of their sheep from a to b , they know as well as I do about the vast amount of paperwork the Ministry require to allow that to happen , and that be because we want traceability — that be what we need , and we need traceability in this sector as well . my hon . friend make the point that many of our constituent across the country do not realise that anybody could set up and run a funeral director service . Sam Gallagher , one of the director of Gallagher Family Funeral Directors in Keighley , write to I to advocate , quite rightly , that the Government should look at bring in regulation or , at the very least , require that funeral director must be a member of a trade association in order to operate . currently we have neither , and I be sure that my hon . friend , in sum up , will encourage the Minister to offer some warm word that we will be go in the direction of have that regulation put in place . I agree with my hon . friend . it be a great strength to be a member of the trade association , because it give an imprimatur of quality to the family choose a funeral director , just as customer would choose a corgi - register boiler fitter or fensa for window . as the trade association themselves have make clear , however , they can only exhort . they can help people by advise on what good practice look and feel like , what a good customer experience be and so forth , but people can still trade as a funeral director without be a member of the trade association , and if the trade association kick they out , they can still trade as a funeral director , because be a funeral director be not concomitant on be a member of the trade association . so there be all this opt - in , opt - out , and of course the good will always join the professional body that give they the imprimatur of quality , whereas it be the dodgy geezer — the people try to do it on the fly — who will not , and they will always be part of the bottom end of the market . I have in my constituency a very well - establish funeral director that operate in a large area and have be around since the victorian era , and many other member will have similar firm in their area . the hon . Gentleman have talk about the trade body . do he agree that such long - establish family firm have a role to play in any future regulation as their experience and respect will add to the weight of the regulation ? I entirely agree , and I make this point again for the Minister ' s benefit : he will not be try to push water uphill in push for a regulatory and / or licensing regime . the good guy and girl want it to happen because it would give certainty . I can share with the House — I hope it be not breach a confidence — that when I be deal with a high - profile incident , which I can not reference per se as it be sub judice , one of the concern we wrestle with be what would happen if public confidence collapse so much that our hospital morgue become effectively logjamme . People would not be prepare to release their love one to a funeral director because they have lose all faith in the sector as a whole . that would be a deeply worrying situation for anybody , and that be why the trade body be push so hard and so energetically to deploy their expertise as good they can in the current circumstance , but also to push Government to agree . rise — rise — I want to draw my remark to a close , but not before I have give way to the hon . Gentleman . I be grateful to my friend the hon . member for North Dorset ( Simon Hoare ) for bring forward this important debate . I agree wholeheartedly with the argument that he have make , as do many of the funeral director in my constituency . I impress on he and the Minister that those funeral director want a licensing regime . as the hon . Member have explain so eloquently , the trade body can only do so much , but a licensing regime would ensure a minimum standard , and we could all hope that the rest would try to excel and become member of the trade body in due course . I agree fundamentally ; it would be " the rise tide that float all ship " argument . I will give way briefly to the hon . member for Wells and Mendip Hills ( Tessa Munt ) , and then I have a couple of suggestion for the Minister . my constituent would be really shock to discover the lack of clarity in this matter . do the hon . Gentleman agree that , as part of the licensing regime , anyone undertake a funeral service in the community should be clear about where body be keep and the various arrangement that be in play ? I have hear some fairly dreadful thing about arrangement for those who have pass away . I agree . in so many choice that we make , the consumer now rightly demand the high of standard . People want to ensure that the departure of their love one from the world be as dignified , graceful , calm and respectful as it possibly can be . rise — the hon . Lady be scowl at I in such a friendly way that of course I will give way . funeral director deal with people at the most vulnerable time in their life . it be not the time when somebody ask , " what be happen ? where be my loved one ' s body ? what be you go to do next ? " all of that detail be assume . when people be so vulnerable , they be highly unlikely to ask the question that they really should ask , and that they would certainly ask if they be buy any other product or service . the hon . Lady have hit upon the key word — assume . why would people think to think anything else ? funeral director have choose their profession — it be not like there be a conscript army of funeral director , press - gang into deal with the deceased — so people presume and assume that the high standard and quality will be deploy . the hon . Lady be right that most of our constituent would be shock that it be only section 25 of the Burial Act 1857 that make it an offence to remove buried remain without a licence from the Secretary of State or , in relation to consecrated ground , without the permission of the Church of England , accord to the rite of the Church . there be , however , a common - law offence of prevent a lawful and decent burial , where a person conceal the death of another person . that be not the same as not give somebody a dignified burial . the death have not be conceal , because it have be register — they have a death certificate — but it be what be do to the deceased thereafter that be important . let I make some point to the Minister — he may well need to respond in writing , rather than give a detailed answer from the Dispatch Box . he will have hear from member from across the House , and he will know from conversation that he may have have with trade body and other , that there be a strong and grow appetite for licensing and inspection . the default position , as I understand it , be with the Human Tissue Authority , and some change to its term of reference would be require , which might be a good place to start . there be a mixed reaction from across the local government family , but I still think that our local council know the granularity of their jurisdiction . they will often be run the crematoria and the graveyard , and they will have official relationship with the funeral director . they also have a long track record of inspection of premise . I be certain that when local government be give the duty to inspect license premise and facility serve food , they say , " we have no experience in this " , but they very quickly pick it up . I know that the trade body stand ready to work alongside and with local authority , as they be go to do before the general election , to say , " this be what good practice look like . come and see our lead member and get a feel for this . we will then accompany you on inspection so that you get a feel about what to look for , the right question to ask , and so on . " it be go to be an evolution in partnership between the quality operator and the Government . I think any and all of we would support anything — there be certainly a clear role for the Human Tissue Authority , but I urge the Minister not to rule out at this stage active and engage involvement from the local government sector . there be also a beef - up supervisory role for the Financial Conduct Authority . we be all familiar with the tv advertising and other advertising , which I reference , that say , " pay a couple of quid a month and build up your funeral kitty . your love one don ' t have to worry about it . " I be aware of a few case whereby people have go in on a weekly or monthly basis with cash , pay it in good faith and be give a piece of paper . they have be give no receipt , the funeral director have not be register , and the scheme have not be register with the Financial Conduct Authority — the hon . member for Kingston upon Hull West and Haltemprice ( Emma Hardy ) will remember that she have that with a number of her constituent . let I share with the House that such people be not the wealthy or affluent , who can say , " I can afford to write off the £ 2 , 500 or £ 3 , 000 I have put in . " these be people on limited , low income and limited mean who be try to defray the cost for their family by do the right thing . we then find that all they have be a piece of paper in their own bank book or ledger , in which they might write thing say , " this be what I have pay in . go and talk to Mr whoever — they be my funeral director of choice . " guess what ? that person have do a moonlight flit ; they have disappear , and there be no record . we have never hear of they . they say , " oh no , your mother only pay in £ 4 . 20 , then she do not make any payment . " nobody stand as the guarantor of last resort . that money be just lose and write off . if only frightfully well - to - do people be affect , we would be sympathetic with they , but I suggest that the people affect be be proactively preyed on in area of the country where there be not a vast amount of cash to go around . People be try to do their good to ensure that their funeral be as cost - effective and problem - free as possible for their survive relative , and that it give they dignity in their choice of be cremate or inter . the Treasury need to step up to this issue as well . we know that the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 be amend by order in 2021 , but it do not quite seem to be do the trick . there be a problem when any issue require interdepartmental solution . we have the Treasury and financial regulation on one side , and there be the potential for Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government involvement on the other . there be also the Ministry of Justice as the sponsoring Department for death — not necessarily the good thing to put on a ministerial strapline , but the Minister be the Minister for death , as far as the MOJ be concern . who take the lead ? who push it forward ? who convene ? who get it right ? this issue can not be ignore . I say with the great respect to the hon . member for Scunthorpe ( Sir Nicholas Dakin ) , who I be privileged enough to count as a friend , that this be a complex and sensitive issue , and we be go to need to take our time . the canon of evidence on the need for progress be very clear and compelling . I suggest that the time for consultation and consideration have pass . the time be now for join - up Government , energetic thinking and speedy delivery , which will give comfort and confidence to each and every constituent . apart from taxis , we know that there be only one other certain thing in this life : we have a span on this Earth , and it be not an infinite resource . we be all go to have to use one of these service at some point , so it be in the interest of the whole country to get this right . the Minister be jolly lucky , because the trade body and other be will he on . they want to see this happen and be ready to act in quick lockstep in order to deliver it . as the House have reflect in this evening ' s debate , and as I hope the Minister will have pick up on , do nothing and hope for the good — hope that somehow or another , by a process of osmosis , the bad actor disappear and the good actor rise to the fore and be the sole operator within this sphere — be , I be afraid , for the bird . I urge any right hon . or hon . member to talk to any of their constituent , at a surgery or an event , and ask , " the funeral sector be regulate , isn ' t it ? " they will answer , " of course it be . " " it ' s license , isn ' t it ? " " yes , of course it be . " when you tell they it be not , there be a look of total and utter astonishment . that situation can not continue . I suggest that the Minister could bring forward whatever legislation he need , and it would probably pass this House in a couple of week . as the Minister have hear from across the House , this be now an urgent and pressing issue . I look forward to his reply , but more importantly , I look forward to see any legislation that he bring forward in order to enact a remedy that be long overdue . I thank the hon . member for North Dorset ( Simon Hoare ) for bring forward this debate and for the manner in which he have do so , with just the right blend of humour and seriousness . in the spirit of humour , I thank he for his invitation to go into business with he as a funeral director . I think I must decline that invitation , on the basis that as a practise surgeon , it might raise some issue of conflict in my practice . it really be an honour to respond to the hon . gentleman on behalf of the Government . I completely understand his strength of feeling on this issue , and from all the contribution make by hon . member from across this House , I know that he be not alone . many colleague and their constituent have write to the Government , rightly appal by recent scandal that have shine a spotlight on the current arrangement and lack of regulation in the funeral sector . many hon . member ' constituent have conduct themselves with great dignity at a time when that dignity be not afford to their dearly depart love one . People deserve dignity in death , and family deserve the comfort of know that their loved one have be safely lay to rest . all of we know , or will come to know , bereavement . everyone deal with grief in different way , but for many people , funeral can be comfort as well as cathartic — an occasion to lay a love one ' s remain to rest and celebrate the gift of their life . on these occasion , we put our trust in the commitment and professionalism of a funeral director . we trust they to not only support we through one of the most difficult and distressing time in our life , but treat our love one lay to rest with the utmost respect . every deceased person deserve at least as much dignity in death as they have in life , and to receive the high standard of care from those entrust with look after they . it be important to remember that , as the hon . member for North Dorset mention , the vast majority of funeral director operate with professionalism and integrity . as he have note , though , there have recently be a number of distress incident in which the conduct of a small number of funeral director and those involve in deal with the deceased have fall far , far short of the standard that we , as a respectable society , can tolerate . before I turn to the recommendation of phase 2 of the independent inquiry into the issue raise by the David Fuller case , I want to remind the House of the background to that case . as colleague may remember , the unspeakable crime of David Fuller take place in a hospital while he be a maintenance supervisor , first at Kent and Sussex hospital and later at Tunbridge Wells hospital . he be arrest in December 2020 for the 1987 murder of two woman , Wendy Knell and Caroline Pierce . when police search his house , they find image and video of he commit unspeakable offence on a large number of deceased woman and girl in hospital mortuary setting between 2005 and 2020 . in 2021 , the previous Government establish an independent inquiry to investigate how a member of staff be able to carry out such evil and unlawful act at mortuary in those hospital , go unnoticed . crime such as these be rare , but that will come as little consolation to the victim . we owe it to the victim and their family to learn the lesson from the Fuller inquiry and to do everything we can to prevent other family from go through similar heartbreak . I take this opportunity to thank Sir Jonathan Michael and his whole inquiry team for their work . this be the first time that the security and dignity of people after death have be consider within all setting and on a major scale in England . turn to the inquiry finding , phase 1 of the inquiry focus on the crime that Fuller commit in those mortuary in Maidstone and Tunbridge Wells . the report , publish in 2023 , identify failure of management , governance and regulation and a lack of curiosity , enable Fuller ' s crime to be repeat time and again . as a result of incident in the funeral sector , the inquiry be ask by the previous Administration , as the hon . member for North Dorset have already allude to , to expedite its examination of the funeral sector . on 15 October 2024 , the inquiry publish an interim report recommend regulation of that sector . on 15 July , the inquiry publish its phase 2 final report , which look at the care of the deceased in both hospital and , importantly , non - hospital setting . the report make 75 detailed recommendation in total , with the majority focus on access , dignity , security and wide process and procedure to protect deceased individual . a small number of recommendation focus on independent hospital , medical education , hospice , ambulance service , care home , the funeral sector and , of course , faith organisation , make specific recommendation to improve the care of the deceased . the inquiry ' s overarch recommendation be that statutory regulation should be in place to protect the security and dignity of people after death , whichever setting or institution they be in . Sir Jonathan specifically recommend the introduction of an independent statutory regulatory regime for funeral director . there be currently specific issue in Hull , which be subject to court proceeding that have not complete , so I will not comment on they specifically , except to say that I be grateful for the support and work of my hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull West and Haltemprice ( Emma Hardy ) , who be sit next to I , my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull North and Cottingham ( Dame Diana Johnson ) and my hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull East ( Karl Turner ) . I pay tribute to the Hessle Road community and to Tristan and Claire , constituent of my hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull West and Haltemprice , for how they have campaign . they have be dignified and campaign so hard after the distressing incident relate to their grandmother . the Government have commit to provide an interim update before the end of this year , follow by a full response in summer 2026 . I acknowledge the challenge of the hon . member for North Dorset that multiple trade body be willing to step up and work with the Government to find a workable framework that meet the need of the mid - 21st century , not the mid - 19th . the recommendation from phase 1 of the inquiry relate to the trust where Fuller commit his horrendous crime sit largely within the remit of my Department . the trust set out its progress in February 2024 and have implement all the inquiry ' s recommendation . the phase 2 recommendation be more complex , and do not solely sit with the Department of Health and Social Care , as the lever of action sit across Government . the recommendation focus on service - level improvement and wide regulation , include of the funeral sector , as have be touch upon in today ' s debate . those need a co - ordinate and urgent approach across Departments to determine which recommendation should be prioritise by which Department . the hon . Gentleman have my assurance of a collaborative , cross - departmental approach to get this right soon for the deceased and their loved one . the hon . Gentleman have put forward many proposal and challenge , include change the Human Tissue Act 2004 , which can be cumbersome . he have also put forward suggestion on the use of local government service to regulate the funeral sector , and I will make sure that the relevant Minister write to he regard the feasibility of that . he have similarly put forward proposal to use the Financial Conduct Authority to stop rogue funeral director operate and exploit vulnerable group . it will be my pleasure to ask my colleague in the Treasury to write to he regard the feasibility of such intervention . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for bring this important debate forward this evening and for the view express by member across this House as the Government continue to consider our response to the Fuller inquiry , include the issue of regulation . this House have my assurance that we will continue to try to work at pace and cross - departmentally to bring dignity to the deceased . question put and agree to . House adjourn .