prayer the Clerk at the table have inform the House of the unavoidable absence , through illness , of the Speaker from the sitting of the House this week , the Chairman of Ways and Means take the Chair as Deputy Speaker ( Standing Order no . 3 ) . Mr Speaker have ask I to let the House know that , unfortunately , he have test positive for covid and so will not be take the Chair today . I be happy to tell the House that I have speak to Mr Speaker and that he be fight it very well . I be sure that the House will join I in wish he a speedy recovery . oral Answers to Questions Levelling up , Housing and Communities the Secretary of State be ask — economic Growth : Yorkshire and the North what step he be take to support economic growth in Yorkshire and the north . for our part , we wish Mr Speaker all the very good , and we hope that he enjoy a speedy recovery — but it be wonderful to have you in the Chair , Madam Deputy Speaker . I also welcome the hon . member for Oldham West and Royton ( Jim McMahon ) back to the Front Bench . I know that he , too , be unwell recently , so it be great to see he in his place and look so well . we be take considerable step to boost economic growth in Yorkshire and the north , include the creation of two investment zone in south and west Yorkshire and , of course , the extension of devolution to the whole of the historic county . I be sure the whole House want to see Mr Speaker back and well again very soon . the Secretary of State must be look at different datum from that which I be look at . I know he do not like expert , but I have hope that , as Christmas approach , he will have a Pauline conversion — he will see a flash of light , fall off his camel and realise that , in order to level up expertly and well , he need local authority on the ground to deliver those policy . will he please reconsider his attitude to local government in this country ? I be grateful to the hon . member . as the Minister for Local Government have just remind I , when Saul be on the road to Damascus he be not actually travel on a camel . improve transport link with a new mass transit system for Leeds be critical to the programme that we undertaking . we be work with local authority in Leeds ; we be work with the Mayor of West Yorkshire , Tracy Brabin , and with the chief executive of Leeds City Council , Tom Riordan . moreover , in Kirklees we be invest £ 65 million through round 3 of the levelling - up fund , with a new open market to provide regeneration in Huddersfield and , of course , the upgrade of the Penistone line , for which my hon . friend the Members for Dewsbury ( Mark Eastwood ) and for Penistone and Stocksbridge ( Miriam Cates ) have be such brilliant advocate . I , too , convey to Mr Speaker a " get well soon " message . in addition to the amenity in Yorkshire and elsewhere in the north , there be a wonderful real ale pub call the Bell Inn at Pensax , in the north of the Malvern Hills . may I put on the record my strong endorsement of its bid to the community ownership fund ? it sound as if that particular inn , in the heart of Elgar country , be something behind which all of we on the Front Bench can rally . it sound like an excellent candidate for the community ownership fund , which have see score of building take back into public ownership by their community for the benefit of all . antisemitism what recent assessment he have make of trend in the level of antisemitism . tragically , we have see a significant increase in antisemitism since the event of 7 October . the Community Security Trust record 1 , 500 antisemitic incident between 7 October and 22 November , the high total in a 47 - day period since record begin in 1984 . despite the first - hand account of survivor such as Yoni Saadon and organisation such as ZAKA — whose member collect the body follow the palestinian terror attack of 7 October , and have describe mutilate genital and woman ' s body have be so badly abuse that their pelvis be break — there be some in the pro - palestinian movement who continue to deny that these atrocity take place . whether we be talk about dead baby or gender - base violence against jewish woman , it appear that Jews do not matter . do the Secretary of State agree that this risk fuel far the antisemitism that we have see in this country since those attack ? my hon . friend be absolutely right ; the event of 7 October be uniquely horrific . it be an exercise in calculate , premeditate sadism which everyone in the House condemn . however , as my hon . Friend say , some voice , include some prominent medium voice , have consider it appropriate to cavil , to question and to prevaricate in the face of this violence . it be vitally important for we to recognise — even as we recognise that all life be precious , and even as we recognise that it be vital for we to do what we can to minimise casualty in this conflict — that the event of 7 October stand out as the big slaughter of jewish civilian since the holocaust , and for that reason there can be no quibbling when we face such a transparent evil . I agree with everything that be say by the previous questioner . could the Secretary of State engage with his opposite number in the Department for Education and argue for the promotion of education about the event of the holocaust ? I have believe for a long time that one of the reason behind the increase in antisemitism , notwithstanding recent event , be the fact that the holocaust be now slip from memory into history , and we need to perpetuate the analysis and grasp of that particular period of history . the hon . Gentleman make a good point , and it give I an opportunity to thank the Holocaust Educational Trust , which enjoy support across the House . the work do by its chief executive , Karen Pollock , be exemplary . as the hon . Gentleman rightly point out , as the voice of survivor fade and the holocaust move from memory to history , it be vital that we ensure that every successive generation appreciate the unique evil of that event , the origin of antisemitism and the need to be vigilant against its recrudescence . I thank the Secretary of State for his robust answer to my hon . friend the Member for Brigg and Goole ( Andrew Percy ) . do he agree that the sight this weekend of bereaved family member from both the muslim and jewish community join together in a combine rally against Islamophobia and antisemitism be an inspire sight that we should all hold in our heart and honour ? do that not serve as a lesson to those people from one community or the other who preach hatred against other who be in fact innocent victim ? my right hon . friend be absolutely correct . all of we approach any conflict with a sense of horror and foreboding for what it may mean for innocent civilian , and it be in that spirit that the vigil that he mention be hold . it be great to see people from across community express solidarity . I have the opportunity last week to talk to leader from various muslim community group across the United Kingdom , and I pay tribute to they for their work in challenge extremism of all kind . if we be to tackle the reality of antisemitism in the present , it be vital that we learn from the past . in the summer of 1945 , 300 jewish child who have survive the death camp in Nazi Germany make their life and be rehabilitate on the bank of windermere lake at Troutbeck Bridge . they be affectionately and proudly know by all of we as the windermere boy . as we work together to celebrate their legacy , and to use that legacy to ensure that we fight antisemitism in every part of our country , will the Secretary of State meet I and the people involve with the project to discuss how we can build a last memorial to the legacy of those wonderful young child who build a new life in this country and overcome the horror of Nazi Germany ? I be really grateful to the hon . gentleman for remind we of that episode in our history , and I would be absolutely delighted to work with he to ensure that that signal moment in our history be properly celebrate . it have be a feature of the United Kingdom that we have always recognise the importance of stand up against antisemitism and provide refuge to those flee persecution , so I look forward to talk to he in due course . the London Borough of Havering have now reverse the appalling decision it make last week to cancel its Hanukkah festivity for the jewish community . it be impossible to imagine any local authority in the country try to cancel the annual celebration of any other faith group . do my right hon . friend agree that all local authority should be careful to avoid any such rash action at this sensitive time , and that they should use intelligence and common sense in their decision ? my right hon . and learn Friend be absolutely correct . I understand that the London Borough of Havering have now reverse its decision , but it seem to I that it be base on a misconception , which be that the idea of the celebration of any faith should be see as provocative at this time . we know that there be individual jewish citizen who feel uncomfortable wear the kippah or any outward symbol of their faith , and to have a London borough say that the menorah should not be light because it would be provocative at this time be wholly wrong . freedom of religion — the chance for we all to express our faith — be fundamental to british value , and he be right to say that other local authority should not go down that same route . Levelling - up Fund what recent assessment he have make of the effectiveness of the levelling - up fund at distribute funding across all part of the UK . what recent assessment he have make of the effectiveness of the levelling - up fund at distribute funding across all part of the UK . what recent assessment he have make of the effectiveness of the levelling - up fund at distribute funding across all part of the UK . on Monday 20 November we announce that a furth £ 1 billion will be invest in 55 project across Great Britain , from Bolton to Elgin , and from Newcastle to Rhyl . in the third round we have target funding at place across Great Britain that be most in need , as assess through our levelling - up need metric . we have also ensure the good possible regional spread of project , so that every part of Great Britain benefit from the fund over its lifetime . further detail be set out in a published methodology note . with new money help Pembrokeshire County Council to regenerate Haverfordwest town centre , with community ownership funding enable the villager of Hayscastle Cross to save their local pub , and with new investment in Visit Pembrokeshire to improve accessibility for tourist visit the county , do the Minister agree that , compare with the clunky , difficult - to - access EU funding scheme , these new pot of level - up money be be distribute far more effectively to all part of the United Kingdom ? my right hon . friend be right that the effort we be make in Pembrokeshire , in part thank to he and other Members of Parliament for the county , demonstrate level up in action in his part of Wales . I be delighted to continue work with he on that . do the Minister agree that Clwyd South ' s £ 13 . 3 million of levelling - up project in the Trevor basin , Llangollen and Corwen , which I recently visit , and the newly announce £ 160 million investment zone for Wrexham , Clwyd South and Flintshire be shine example of the effectiveness of level up galvanise investment and activity in north - east Wales ? my hon . friend be a fantastic champion for his constituent in Clwyd South , and for constituent in Shropshire as well . I completely agree that the £ 13 . 3 million investment from the levelling - up fund will protect a valuable heritage site for north Wales , an area enjoy by local , while encourage visitor to stay long and spend more in local shop , caf é s and campsite . the recently announce investment zone in Wrexham and Flintshire also demonstrate our commitment to level up investment in research , innovation and support for economic development in the region . my local council have sadly be unable to attract any levelling - up funding or community renewal funding into North Norfolk . as I have repeatedly request in this place , I need just £ 3 million for a roundabout at the top of Holway Road in Sheringham , but £ 3 million be too small for a levelling - up bid and too much for Norfolk County Council . in the spirit of Christmas , how can the Minister give I a present of £ 3 million for a roundabout in North Norfolk ? I wish I could give my hon . friend a Christmas present . I recognise his work , campaign on behalf of the people of Sheringham for the improvement of the A148 Holway Road junction . I know he be already engage closely with Norfolk County Council on the project . the £ 600 million investment fund , agree through the Norfolk county deal , will provide the county council with the local mean to fund exactly this sort of project , with the first tranche of funding due to be available next year . if there be anything far I can do , I would be delighted to work with he and with colleague in the Department for Transport to progress this project . the Minister will not have too much difficulty assess the effectiveness of the levelling - up fund in Northern Ireland , because Northern Ireland be the only country in the United Kingdom not to receive one penny in the last round of level - up funding . he will not level with the people of Northern Ireland , give the spurious excuse that , because an Executive have not be form , he can not allocate the money . what discussion do he need to have with the Northern Ireland Executive that he do not have with the Scottish Parliament , the Welsh Parliament or any local authority in England before allocate money there ? the right hon . Gentleman and I have have numerous conversation to that effect . Northern Ireland have benefit from £ 120 million in round 1 and 2 of the levelling - up fund but , in the context of grow pressure on Northern Ireland budget , it be right that the UK Government should consider their approach to the funding available for Northern Ireland in this round . in LUF3 , £ 30 million have be reserve for Northern Ireland and , as part of our commitment to level up , we will work with the restore Executive to find the good approach to support people in Northern Ireland . I again confirm to the right hon . Gentleman that I will work with he and other , once the Executive be back up and run , to see how we can well level up his community . Whitchurch in my constituency have not receive any levelling - up funding , whether from the levelling - up fund itself , the town fund or the future high street fund . now it have find itself without a civic centre because of dangerous reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete , so it have lose its library , registry office and drive test centre , which be soon to be reopen follow a long campaign by myself and other . will the Minister meet I to work out what we can do to put that important building back into the heart of Whitchurch ? I would be happy to meet the hon . member . I call the shadow Minister . the Resolution Foundation ' s report on economic stagnation , publish today , show how levelling up simply be not happen under this Government . one of the speaker at the event this morning be Andy Haldane , the chair of the Levelling up Advisory Council , who say that great financial devolution be need in all area , not just in the favour few . it sound like he have be take inspiration from our propose " take back control " Bill . do the Minister agree with he that more economic devolution be need in all area of the UK ? I do agree with he . that be why we be follow our devolution framework , expand devolution to more area in the UK . under the last Labour Government , the only area in England that have a devolution deal be London . through devolution , we have be able to expand that offer to more than 60 % of England . we have invest more than £ 13 billion of local growth funding into community the length and breadth of the country , restore pride and ensure that we tackle regional inequality . if the hon . Gentleman want to see level up in action , he need only look at place such as Teesside , which be leave behind under the last Labour Government . it be now be transform through the UK ' s large freeport , Teesside airport and the Treasury in Darlington ; town deal in Redcar , Middlesbrough , Thornaby , Darlington and Hartlepool ; high street funding in Middlesbrough , Loftus and Stockton ; and level - up funding for Eston and TS6 , Hartlepool , Guisborough , Yarm , Eaglescliffe and Billingham . the opposition be all talk ; we be deliver level up in action . Madam Deputy Speaker , please pass on my good wish to Mr Speaker for a speedy recovery . alongside the levelling - up fund , the Department create the community renewal fund in order to alleviate regional disparity . if the Minister be to mark his own homework , how do he think level up the country be go ? as I say in response to a previous question , we have commit more than £ 13 . 9 billion of local growth funding to community across the United Kingdom , include in Scotland . we have commit to publish the detail of the levelling - up mission in due course , and I will ensure that the hon . Lady have an update when we do that . in fact , academic from the University of Manchester have find that the community renewal fund give £ 9 . 9 million to the south of England at the expense of other region , which seem to be a trend that we see in level up . do the Minister agree with I that his Department ' s plan be , simply put , do little to tackle regional inequality ? I completely disagree with the hon . Lady ; the fact show something quite different . as I say when I outline round 3 in the House on 20 November , the big recipient of the levelling - up fund have be the north - west , the north - east , and Yorkshire and the Humber . that tell a very different story from the picture paint by the hon . Lady . private Rented Sector what step he be take to reform the private rent sector . I be delighted to announce that our Renters ( Reform ) Bill complete Committee stage in the House last week . our ambitious and balanced reform will deliver on our manifesto commitment to abolish section 21 eviction and to reform ground for possession , so that landlord can recover their property when they need to . the Secretary of State move with admirable speed after the death of Awaab Ishak to ensure that social landlord honour their obligation to tenant in term of mould and safety , but those in private rent accommodation do not have that protection . can the Minister tell the House , and the world , why private tenant be put at risk in that way ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for the work that he do follow the tragic and unnecessary death of Awaab Ishak . we have table an amendment to the Renters ( Reform ) Bill to expand the decent home standard to the private rent sector for the first time . I look forward to work with he to ensure that the Bill be in as good a state as it can be when it leave this House . the Levelling up , Housing and Communities Committee have be take evidence about local government finance . in the past two year , expenditure on homelessness and temporary accommodation have increase by 50 % . the reality be that section 21 notice be a prime driver of that . the Renters ( Reform ) Bill will abolish section 21 , but the Government have not yet announce a timetable for the legislation ' s implementation or the abolition . the Government have say that we need court reform . I completely agree , but how be that help by the Chancellor ' s announce in the autumn statement a freeze of the budget of the Ministry of Justice for the whole of the next Parliament ? I can confirm to the Chair of the Select Committee that I meet the relevant Minister in the Ministry of Justice just this morning to discuss that point . we be work at pace to ensure that the court be ready for the big change in the private rent sector in over 30 year . the hon . Gentleman talk about local government funding . we be conduct a new burden assessment for local government to ensure that any additional burden that be place on local government be fund properly . I call the shadow Secretary of State . in the festive spirit , I extend my sympathy to the Secretary of State , who seem to spend his time haunt by the ghost of Christmas past . in 2019 , a Tory Prime Minister promise to ban no - fault eviction . since then , household have be put at risk of homelessness because of a section 21 notice nearly 78 , 000 time . in 2017 , the fifth predecessor of the Secretary of State pledge action to end the medieval practice of leasehold , but just last year another 207 , 000 homeowner become stuck in that expensive nightmare . all the while , the Secretary of State have be beaver away draw up what can only be describe as Alice in Wonderland legislation : a Bill to ban no - fault eviction that will not ban no - fault eviction , and a Bill to ban leasehold that will not ban leasehold . be he too scared to stand up to his Back Benchers , or have he truly fall down the rabbit hole ? I should remind the right hon . Lady that I be not the Secretary of State . let I also remind she that the Renters ( Reform ) Bill be the big change to the private rent sector in 30 year — long than I have be alive . we have to ensure that we get this right both for tenant and for the 2 . 4 million landlord in this country . she may be willing to brush aside the concern of landlord and turn she back on what be often small business . we be not . we will deliver a Bill that protect renter and ensure a fair system for landlord . Local Authority Funding : Essex what funding he plan to provide to local authority in Essex in the 2024 - 25 financial year . the Government will bring forward our proposal for the 2024 - 25 local government finance settlement in the usual way , towards the end of the calendar year , but I pledge that it will be before the House rise . we will set out our proposal for the 2024 - 25 financial year and then invite view in our formal consultation . I welcome the Minister to his new responsibility . he may know — he definitely will now — that Braintree District Council , Colchester City Council , Maldon District Council and Essex County Council provide essential statutory service to my Witham constituent and many more . the cost of statutory service such as adult social care and care for child be rise . I suspect that he will give a nuanced answer , but can he give any indication of how the local government finance settlement will support those local authority in deliver those vital statutory service ? I have never give a nuanced answer in my life and I do not intend to start do so now . I thank all the council my right hon . friend mention for the work they do in deliver service for their community . local government have see a real - term increase in core spending power over the period 2019 - 20 to 2023 - 24 . I know she know that , but I assure she and the House that we recognise and understand the pressure on local government . we will look in the round at sector spending when finalise the budget at the upcoming settlement , as we do every year , but I shall certainly bear at the forefront of my mind the representation that she have make . Leasehold Reform what step he be take to reform the leasehold system . what plan he have for leasehold reform . on 27 November the Government introduce the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Bill , which deliver the Government ' s manifesto commitment on leasehold reform and make long - term necessary change to improve home ownership for million of leaseholder across England and Wales . in January , the Secretary of State tell the Sunday Times : " I don ' t believe leasehold be fair in any way . it be an outdated feudal system that need to go . and we need to move to a well system and to liberate people from it . " but the Government ' s Bill do not sort it , nor do it free my constituent from their feudal master . why ? as the hon . Gentleman will know if he have read the Bill that be introduce last week , a substantial amount of progress be propose under it : a substantial number of leaseholder will be much well off and experience a substantial improvement to their life as a result of the change that this Government be propose . a large number of freehold homeowner in my constituency pay charge to property management company for maintenance service that be not always carry out . the management company rarely respond to complaint from resident , who often do not have the money to seek legal advice with a view to take court action . will my hon . friend confirm that the new Leasehold and Freehold Reform Bill will grant freehold homeowner the right to transparency about how their money be spend , to challenge company when the contract service be not provide and , where necessary , to have the contract remove from that company ? my hon . friend be right to highlight that issue , and I know that many of we will have hear of similar experience in our constituency . that be another example — I return to the point make by the hon . member for Stockton North ( Alex Cunningham ) — of reform under this Bill that will significantly improve the life of leaseholder for the long term . I call the shadow Minister . as you will no doubt be aware , Madam Deputy Speaker , the Government ' s Leasehold and Freehold Reform Bill , design to ban the sale of new leasehold house , do not actually contain any provision to ban the sale of new leasehold house , because the Department apparently do not have time to draft they before publication . if and when the Government rectify their mistake and add the necessary provision , will they incorporate measure to reinvigorate commonhold by make it accessible and available to both prospective homebuyer and exist leaseholder ? if not , why not ? as have be outline , we intend to bring forward further change to the Bill during the process , as Opposition Members know be normal , because they have sit in the same Committees that we have . we be not propose to change leasehold to commonhold under the Bill , but that remain part of our long - term approach and we would like to see further reform as soon as we be able to . one outsider and apparently one or two Opposition Members misinterpret what I understand the Secretary of State to be say in January . can the Minister confirm that the opportunity for enfranchisement will take away many of the problem that residential leaseholder now suffer and , in effect , that will get they to commonhold ? I will just add that if we have wait to transfer all leasehold to commonhold , we would not have the Bill now and 6 million leaseholder would have be betray . my hon . friend make an important point . we all want to see those in leasehold in a much improved situation . we be make huge step forward with this Bill and we look forward to continue and augment that reform in due course . Council Funding what assessment he have make of the implication for his policy of council budget shortfall . what recent assessment he have make of the effectiveness of assessment of relative need at ensure the adequacy of council funding . we be in close and regular contact with sector representative body and council from across the local government family to monitor budget and service delivery . I have have many discussion with those body and organisation since my appointment . as hon . member will know , the final local government finance settlement for 2023 - 24 make available up to £ 59 . 7 billion for local government in England , an increase in core spending power of up to £ 5 . 1 billion , or 9 . 4 % , in cash term on 2022 - 23 . the Government will continue to look in the round at local government spending ahead of fiscal event , and we will be announce funding for next year ' s finance settlement later this month . may I take this opportunity to wish Mr Speaker a speedy recovery ? I thank the Minister for his response , but I say respectfully that I do not find it satisfactory . I declare an interest as a proudly active Somerset councillor . council provide essential service , such as adult ' and child ' s social care , yet increase cost in social care , alongside inflation , mean that many council around the country be struggle to provide adequate care . I must warn he that , without action , life will be foreshorten . the cost of provide service be high in rural area than urban area , yet rural resident will receive 13 % less per head in social care support . will he reassure I that the forthcoming fair funding review will address the unequal way rural council be fund ? the hon . Lady , who be my constituency neighbour in some respect , make an important point in a serious way . I concur very much on the seriousness of the issue and the challenge that it be present to our upper - tier authority . as I say , we will of course look in the round at all the pressure be place on local government to see what we can do to help . she rightly mention the rural service delivery grant , which I have champion . it be very much in my mind to see what we can do during the settlement to address the issue that she raise of the cost disparity of deliver quality service in rural setting , particularly where population be sparse . under the current relative need assessment formula , the poor fifth of council receive about 10 % below their assess need , while the rich fifth get 15 % above they . that be hardly level up , be it , Minister ? a review of the current formula , which be over 10 year old , have be repeatedly postpone . meanwhile , local authority such as Blackburn with Darwen Borough Council could be miss out on thousand or perhaps million of pound , which could deliver much - need service in our town . when will the review finally take place ? the hon . Lady raise an important point about the formula . I be tempt to say that if the spectre of covid have not , quite rightly , take up a huge amount of bandwidth in both central Government and local government , we might have be in a different place . we can spend an awful lot of time discuss the minutia of the formula , and there will be a time when that need to be do . the crucial task that we have in hand at the current time be to play the card that we have be deal , to deliver a settlement that work for local government and to deliver the quality and range of service that all our community , irrespective of where they be in the country , have a legitimate expectation to receive . we be not make terribly fast progress this afternoon . could everyone who have their question write down cut out the bit at the beginning and just ask the question ? this be not speech time ; it be Question Time , so let we just have question . if we get short question , we can get short answer , too . local government finance have be front and centre of our local news give the stark situation in Nottingham . the Minister will know about Nottingham ' s unique circumstance follow decade of poor decision and mismanagement , but it will not be lose on he that the whole sector be under significant pressure . I know that he will make the case about finance to the Treasury , but the Government could help significantly by allow more flexibility in the system . will he work with colleague around Government to help we to remove ringfence , particularly in area , such as public health and transport , in which we could make well decision if we have more freedom to do so ? I be not go to give a running commentary on the situation in Nottingham , save to say that my right hon . friend the Secretary of State and I keep it under close review . on my hon . friend ' s wide point about trust and liberalisation , his call fall on open ear . I be happy to work with anybody who want to ensure that our local authority can stand up and deliver , as long as they accept accountability and responsibility for the decision they take . the Government have a proud record on work in a relationship of trust with our local councillor and council in order to deliver for people up and down the land . I call the shadow Minister . in 2018 , Tory - lead Northamptonshire County Council issue a section 114 notice — as close as a council can come to declare itself bankrupt . since then , under this Conservative Government , we have see a further eight council from across the political spectrum do exactly the same . in September , the credit agency Moody ' s warn that more local authority will " fail over the near term " due to high inflation , interest rate and service demand . by the Government ' s own assessment , how many more council be at risk between now and budget be set next year ? I welcome the hon . gentleman to his place and echo the remark of my right hon . friend the Secretary of State ; it be great to see he back on the Front Bench . the hon . Gentleman raise an important point . nobody be go to doubt that section 114 be a serious issue . as I have say to the Local Government Association and other , I do not think it be right for we to name and shame , point the finger or assign blame . we be intent on work with council that have already alert we to see what we can do to help , and on work alongside council that have concern to ensure they do not fall into that situation . I be not go to give a running commentary on that , save to make this pledge : we will work with those council to ensure that they can continue to deliver for their voter . Land Use : renewable energy Generation what recent discussion he have have with the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero on the use of land for renewable energy generation . the Government have in place a framework , develop in collaboration with the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero , that support the deployment of renewable energy technology . that be balance by national planning policy , which be clear that land asset such as farmland must also be protect . on current usage , 2 , 000 acre of solar panel be require to power around 50 , 000 home , whereas a small modular reactor require just two football pitch and power 1 million home . do my hon . friend agree that solar be a highly inefficient land use , and can he confirm that the provision to protect land use in food production remain in the new national planning policy framework ? I know that my hon . friend have a long - stand interest in this issue . we will be publish more on the NPPF shortly , but he be absolutely right that we need a variety of different energy source that can support the UK ' s future energy need . as the Minister know , there be a disparity between the contract for difference scheme for the mainland and what exist for Northern Ireland . I have make overture to the Minister responsible to see whether we can get that change , but that have not happen yet . will the Minister use his influence to make sure that we in Northern Ireland be treat equally with everybody else in the United Kingdom ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for his question . he might like to write to I , or I be happy to speak to he separately in order to understand the issue , and either I or my colleague in the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero will be happy to respond . Levelling - up Policies : Regional Inequalities what assessment he have make of the effectiveness of the Government ' s levelling - up policy at reduce regional inequality . a lot do , a lot still to do , but certainly much more than the Scottish Government . in that case , can the Secretary of State tell we whether Scotland will receive more or less funding to tackle regional inequality than it would have receive if we have do as 78 % of voter in my constituency do and vote to remain in the European Union ? we be do well outside the European Union . if we have follow the hon . Gentleman ' s advice and remain in the European Union , we would have find that the fishing industry be decimate by the common fishery policy and we would not have have the opportunity to invest in new levelling - up partnership in Argyll and Bute , the Western Isles , Dundee and , of course , the west central belt . this UK Government be intervene where the Scottish Government can not to support local government in Scotland , which be why whenever I address the Convention of Scottish Local Authorities , I get a warm welcome than the First Minister of Scotland do . do the Secretary of State agree that it be a great shame that Stoke - on - Trent City Council , which be now labour - run , have scale back its levelling - up plan by get rid of the propose e - sport arena ? the first of its kind outside of London , it would have build on Staffordshire University ' s UK - lead — indeed , world - lead — e - sport course , as well as the 9 , 000 job create since 2015 , the £ 56 million we get in levelling - up funding , the £ 17 . 6 million Kidsgrove town deal , and much more . when it come to level up and the e - sport centre , I be always clear that it be my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent North and Kidsgrove who answer the call of duty . he be absolutely right to say that , under the Labour council now in Stoke - on - Trent , the huge progress we be make on level up have stall . what we need be more conservative elect representative in Stoke - on - Trent . Electoral Commission what recent discussion he have have with the Electoral Commission on administer free and fair election . free , fair and resilient election be pivotal to our society , and if we agree on nothing else in this House , I hope it be on that . the Government regularly meet the Electoral Commission , both at ministerial and official level , to discuss a broad range of electoral issue , and I be due to have my first meeting with it next Tuesday . I thank the Minister for his answer , and I welcome he to his place . he will know that the cyber - attack in October 2021 be not detect until August 2022 , and the commission admit that it have fail a cyber security test in the same year . what work be the Minister do with the Security Minister to ensure that the defend democracy taskforce have a remit with the Electoral Commission ? I agree with the Minister , as should all member of this House , that we should have free and fair election without intervention from other state , so what work be he do to ensure the general election next year be protect from any hostile state ? the hon . gentleman — and , dare I say it , my friend — raise an important point . there be a good range of discussion take place between my Department and the Home Office and a range of meeting focus on that . conscious of the role that the commission can play , we must ensure that those who stand in our election , participate in they and administer they feel safe and secure in their role , and moreover that the result , whatever they be , stand up and be not open to challenge as a result of cyber - attack or anything else . I call the shadow Minister . a report from the all - party parliamentary group on democracy and the constitution have find that the photo voter ID scheme create a real risk of injustice and potential discrimination . the report highlight the case of an immunocompromise woman who be deny she right and her voice at the local election after be tell that she need to take off her mask . do the Minister agree that deny someone a say in how their community be run because of a disability be completely unacceptable ? can he confirm that any indication of potential discrimination find in the photo voter ID system will be deal with prior to the next set of election ? the hon . Lady raise a serious point , and let I put it on record that I would be happy to meet she and the APPG to discuss their issue and concern . we have make great stride — there be a specific workstream — in ensure we maximise how those who have a disability can vote and do so in a free and unfettered way , and we will continue with that . I be very sorry to hear about the case the hon . Lady raise , but if she wish to write to I on the issue , I will of course look into it in my discussion with the commission . it be absolutely pivotal that , in all we do with regard to our election rule , access to voting — freedom to vote — be absolutely at the heart of it , and as the Minister responsible for election , I shall guarantee that . Topical Questions right , I be go to issue a challenge to the House . we have 10 topical question and other to get through , we have very little time to do it — and we have a lot of business today — and I would not like Mr Speaker to think that we be go slowly just because he be not here : short question , short answer ! if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . at the autumn statement , my right hon . friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer make available to my Department money for investment in London , Cambridge and Leeds , planning capacity and capability , the local authority housing fund , the local housing allowance , home buying and selling and the affordable home guarantee scheme — quite a coup . brilliant . I think I get most of that . Newport West be home to a thriving and inclusive muslim community , and I pay tribute to the multi - faith work be do to bring our community together after the terrible event in the middle east . can the Minister outline what discussion he have have with the Welsh Government about support this multi - faith work , and about eradicate Islamophobia in Wales and the UK once and for all ? I be very grateful to the hon . Lady . of course , Newport be one of many city and town where there be effective work between representative of muslim community and figure in local government more widely . I have the opportunity to discuss some of these issue with the First Minister of Wales at the british - Irish Council just 10 day ago , but there be much more that we need to do to deal with anti - muslim hatred . over the summer , the Minister for Housing , Planning and Building Safety , my hon . friend the Member for North East Derbyshire ( Lee Rowley ) publish a non - bind code of practice for clad remediation work , follow intensive discussion with he , and also my highlight the devaste case of St Francis Tower . will he update the House on how in practice that non - bind code of practice be work ? have it lead to improve behaviour and be a step forward , and have he consider far my view that perhaps that code of practice need to be legally binding ? my hon . friend be a drive force behind that code of practice , and we be monitor it actively . anecdotally I be see few issue , although there be still some . I would be happy to receive from he and other Members of the House any information or evidence that suggest there be still a problem . the cost to council of deliver service will exceed their core funding by £ 2 billion this year . Newcastle expect a funding gap of £ 56 million , follow £ 369 million of conservative cut to funding and year of conservative economic failure . can my constituent rely on council service under a Conservative Government ? they certainly can not rely on a Labour Government , because the Leader of the Opposition just this morning have be talk about his admiration for Margaret Thatcher and cost cutting . I be afraid all the hon . Lady be do be raise false hope that have no chance of be satisfied under a Labour Government . my interest be in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . why be it government policy to deny a landlord and tenant the ability to agree a mutually convenient fix - term tenancy ? fix - term tenancy can trap tenant into poor - quality home , and trap landlord into long - term tenancy with bad tenant . with the abolition of section 21 of the Housing Act 1988 , we no long see such thing as necessary , but I be happy to work with my right hon . friend to ensure that the Renters ( Reform ) Bill work for his constituent . I call the shadow Minister . the late Government figure highlight that a record 139 , 000 child — child ! — be in temporary accommodation in the lead - up to Christmas , which be a 14 % increase . meanwhile , only 9 , 500 home for social rent be build last year . if we take into account all the home build since 2010 , that be minus 14 , 000 each year . do the Minister regret handing back £ 1 . 9 billion of unspent departmental money to the Treasury last year , give that we be in an urgent housing crisis ? why not adopt Labour ' s plan to get Britain build again , with 1 . 5 million home over that parliamentary period ? I remind the hon . Gentleman that our target be 300 , 000 home per year which , when multiply by five , equal 1 . 5 million . in the autumn statement we have three measure to address the challenge of temporary accommodation : we uprate the local housing allowance to the 30th percentile ; there be a new £ 120 million for a homelessness fund ; and an extra £ 450 million for the local authority housing fund . do my hon . friend agree that Stoke - on - Trent City Council should invest its share of the £ 200 million that it recently secure from the National Lottery Heritage Fund on one of the three beautiful " beast " of Burslem , include the indoor market , in order to regenerate the mother town , for which the leader of Stoke - on - Trent City Council be a local ward councillor ? it be fantastic that Stoke - on - Trent have be choose as one of the 20 place to benefit from the National Lottery Heritage Fund ' s £ 200 million investment in the Heritage Places initiative . the fund will make its funding decision under that initiative and independent from Government . however , I be sure that the National Lottery have hear my hon . friend ' s loud cry for Burslem , and I be sure it will look at it favourably . Sacha from Kempston , Bedford , be one of an increase number of freeholder who be afflict by estate maintenance charge . will the Secretary of State commit to a review into the role of those excessive , unpredictable and often opaque fee and insurance cost that not only treat mostly new homeowner as cash cow , but be put their home at risk ? that be a very important point , and yes , we be on it . the Great Yarmouth and Lowestoft enterprise zone , which be set up in 2012 , have be very successful . with no investment zone in the east of England , will my hon . friend meet my right hon . friend the Member for Great Yarmouth ( Sir Brandon Lewis ) and I to consider how good the enterprise zone can be enhance , so that it can continue to create job in the low - carbon energy sector ? I would be delighted to meet my hon . friend and my right hon . friend the Member for Great Yarmouth . we have no plan at present to amend enterprise zone , but I be keen to ensure that their constituent continue to reap the reward of level up , include the £ 100 million of investment for Sizewell C and freeport east , which will generate thousand of job across his region in new low - carbon technology . Caius House be a small youth charity in Battersea that lease a space in a multi - use high - rise building that include residential dwelling . despite its have state - of - the - art fire alarm system , the charity face huge wake watch cost . as the Building Safety Act 2022 do not protect registered charity , such as Caius House , will the Secretary of State look into this case ? will he seek to bring forward legislation to protect charity from high cost due to fire safety remediation work ? I think we respond to a write question on this matter just a few month ago , but I be happy to meet the hon . Lady to talk about it in more detail , if there still be a problem . I be not aware of one at the moment . Horsham be suffer severe water stress and be subject to water neutrality . do the Minister agree that mitigation should be thorough , evidence and monitor ? I absolutely agree . water neutrality be impact on small part of the country , but it need to be deal with seriously and proportionately by statutory consultee , and then with a can - do attitude from council where appropriate . do the Minister agree that young people leave care after their 18th birthday should get more help to get their first home ? will he back my campaign that I be run with Barnado ' s and Plymouth care leaver for a deposit scheme for care leaver and a rent guarantee scheme , because every single care leaver leave local authority care deserve a good , decent and safe first home ? I know the hon . Gentleman have do a significant amount of work on this matter within Plymouth , and I know that my colleague in the Department for Work and Pensions be do a significant amount of work , too , and I would be happy to meet he to talk more about the matter . sadly , a second homeless person die over the weekend . the number of rough sleeper be increase , and the temperature be fall . will my hon . friend take immediate action to ensure that rough sleeper be provide with a decent place to sleep , particularly during this cold weather ? my hon . friend raise an important point . clearly , the death in Manchester be tragic . local authority can activate the severe weather emergency protocol measure . Manchester do activate those , but sadly the man be not know to local service . I absolutely agree with my hon . friend , and we will do everything to support rough sleeper over the winter period . the Government announce in the autumn statement £ 120 million of new money for homeless prevention for next year , but that be just a drop in the ocean , with Enfield Council alone face a £ 9 . 8 million overspend on temporary accommodation for this year . when will this Government recognise the scale of the crisis and provide top - up funding for the homelessness prevention grant and discretionary housing payment ? I remind the hon . Lady that our total package for homelessness and rough sleeping over three year be £ 2 billion . the £ 120 million be in addition to that , but I agree with she that there be real pressure on homelessness , particularly in London , and that be why there be three measure in the autumn statement . it be now 10 week since the bin be empty in Warrington . a national pay dispute have spill over into a local disagreement . do the Minister agree that it be now urgent that labour - run Warrington Borough Council get round the table with the union and find an urgent agreement , before the situation turn into a health emergency ? absolutely . again and again , we find that labour - run local authority , despite their much - vaunted relationship with trade union , be incapable of resolve these dispute . whether in Birmingham or Warrington , Labour must do well , otherwise work people suffer . on public service , City of York Council area come 152 out of 152 when it come to public funding . as a result , service be now have to be cut in the area , as the council have £ 55 million less than when we last have a Labour Government . how will the Secretary of State ensure that fair funding stretch across all public service when look at the new funding formula ? we be absolutely committed to make sure that local authority receive the resource they need . have have conversation with the leader of City of York Council , I appreciate the constraint under which it be operate , and we hope to be able to say more in the local government finance settlement . I have speak to Ministers about the work of organisation such as Fromehall Mill and the Sub Rooms , and we have be down to Berkeley town . with they in mind , when will the next round of announcement about the community ownership fund be make ? I be delighted to confirm to my hon . friend that the next round of the community ownership fund open this week , on 6 December . we will have the outcome of the last window in the come week , but I know that she be very keen on Fromehall Mill and Berkeley Books , which she have be champion . the announcement that Edinburgh airport be for sale come hard on the heel of the announcement last week that Grangemouth be close the oil refinery . what can the Secretary of State say to reassure my constituent in Edinburgh West that everything possible have be do to ensure that this do not undermine the green enterprise zone in the area ? the hon . Lady do a fantastic job of stand up for her constituent in Edinburgh West , and she be absolutely right : the UK Government should be , and be , work with the Scottish Government and private sector partner in order to ensure that sustainable growth continue to be part of the plan for Edinburgh and the wide lothian region . it be clear that the Government be plan to protect council during the transition to the new planning system , and be not plan to force council into have an out - of - date plan by take away their right to submit a new , up - to - date plan . can the Secretary of State help I get this across to my local Lib Dem - run council , which be say the exact opposite ? I have the great pleasure of visit Harborough on Friday , when I be able to see the enormously high regard with which my hon . friend be hold . unfortunately , that high regard do not extend to Oadby and Wigston Borough Council or Harborough District Council — two liberal Democrat authority that be play fast and loose with the planning system , and which be not put in place the protection that their resident deserve . all too often we find that Liberal Democrat local authority do not have plan in place , do not have plan department that work , and let their resident down . the Liberal Democrats be the enemy of good housing policy , and that be why we need to make sure that conservative be in power in local government . Gaza : Humanitarian Situation ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State to make a statement regard the humanitarian situation in Gaza . a tragedy be unfold in the middle east . Israel have suffer the bad terror attack in its history , and palestinian civilian be experience a devastating and grow humanitarian crisis . as the Foreign Secretary make clear , last week ' s agreement be a crucial step towards provide relief to the family of the hostage and address the humanitarian emergency in Gaza . this pause have provide an opportunity to ensure that much great volume of food , fuel and other lifesave aid can enter Gaza . on 24 November , the British Government announce a furth £ 30 million - worth of humanitarian assistance , triple our exist aid budget for the Occupied Palestinian Territories this financial year and bring it to a total of £ 60 million . during the pause , the fourth UK aircraft , carry 23 tonne of humanitarian aid for Gaza , arrive in Egypt , bring the total amount of UK humanitarian aid provide by british aircraft to 74 tonne . that aid be now be disperse to the United Nations to support critical food , water , health , shelter and protection need in Gaza , and to pre - position emergency supply in the region . we be also actively explore other aid route , include by sea . the pause that end last week be a crucial step towards provide relief to the family of the hostage and address the humanitarian crisis in Gaza . we have say repeatedly that we would like to see an extension . UK humanitarian funding will continue to support trust partner to provide humanitarian assistance , and negotiate humanitarian access , in Gaza . the UK will continue , in conjunction with our international partner , to advocate internationally on humanitarian priority . these include respect for international humanitarian law , the need for fuel , humanitarian access , humanitarian pause and an increase in the type of assistance . we be urgently explore all diplomatic option to increase that , include urge Israel to open other exist land border , such as Kerem Shalom . we welcome the intensive international co - operation , include effort from Qatar and the USA , which lead to the agreement , and we thank partner for their continue work . we remain committed to make progress towards a two - state solution . Britain ' s long - stand position on the middle east peace process be clear : we support a negotiate settlement lead to a safe and secure Israel live alongside a viable and sovereign palestinian state . the UK will continue to work with all partner in the region to reach a long - term political solution that enable both Israelis and Palestinians to live in peace . give recent event , it be surprising and regrettable that neither the Prime Minister nor the Foreign Secretary be make a statement today . the reality be that this conflict have sadly reach another phase , and many more innocent life will be lose if we do not act now . we urge the Government to continue to push for another cessation of hostility and for all remain hostage to be free . to be clear , Israel must not besiege or blockade Gaza . it must comply with international law and protect innocent life and civilian infrastructure , and ensure that attempt to address the humanitarian catastrophe be ramp up quickly . in the last few day , partner on the ground have become increasingly concerned about the safe zone at al - Mawasi , with report suggest that aid be not reach those who be there . have the Government hold talk with Israel and other to ensure that it do , and to seek assurance that Palestinians who flee there not will not be move far still ? the Minister will know that that be a key concern of arab state . shelter be severely overcrowded , dysentery be spread , and the risk of cholera be now significant . that must be mitigate now . be there be serious plan to deal with sewage and to distribute medicine and vaccine ? it be winter in Gaza , where nearly 2 million people be displace ; many be in tent or in the open air . I urge the Minister again to follow the US ' s lead and appoint a humanitarian co - ordinator to get the truck move more quickly , to get fuel in and to work towards the opening of Karem Shalom . the UK and partner must redouble effort towards an endure cessation of hostility and a last political solution . Israel must be assure that Hamas can not carry out an attack like 7 October ever again . but , to build a last peace , we must assure a generation of Palestinians that there be hope : that they , their child and their grandchild can expect the security and opportunity that be their right , with a plan for child both to prevent their death and to prioritise their life , and a clear message that there can be no reoccupation or reduction of Gazan territory and that those displace have the right to return home . I urge the Government to play their part in end the illegal settlement and settler violence in the west bank and to create a plan for the reconstruction and renewal of Gaza . we must do more without delay to deal with the humanitarian catastrophe unfold in front of we as we simultaneously work towards a well future . many more life will be lose if we do not act now . I be grateful for my counterpart ' s constructive tone . we be in agreement : we be push for a further pause , which we regard as imperative . the success , as it be , of the last one show the utility of a pause in term of the increase flow of humanitarian support , and we continue to strain every sinew in our diplomacy to aim for that . the Foreign Secretary make that argument to his various ministerial colleague last week and will continue to do that with his counterpart and ministerial counterpart right across the middle east . the hon . Member mention the safe zone . we continue to monitor that , and official in the region be see how it unfold with regard to the humanitarian impact . she be right to draw the House ' s attention to the grievous humanitarian impact of disease . we be confident that channel our fund through the UN agency — the United Nations Relief and Works Agency , the Office for the Co - ordination of Humanitarian Affairs and unicef — be the right way to go about that , but the scale of increase of need be hugely alarming , and we be painfully aware that woman and child often bear the most unfortunate brunt of such impact . I assure she that we be redouble effort . clearly , our financial contribution have triple , but that go in hand with our political effort , because it be only through a last peace , which she refer to , that this will be resolve . the humanitarian component be of utmost urgency , but we must not forget the political component , which run in tandem . our stance on the illegal settlement in the west bank and our long - stand support for a sustainable solution with palestinian statehood at the heart of the region ' s future be undiminishe . in addition to our humanitarian effort , in our political and diplomatic effort we will continue to argue for palestinian statehood as the seed for a long - term solution in the region . I call the Father of the House . the House will welcome the bipartisan support for what the British Government be try to do . Most of we know that our direct power in the area end more than 70 year ago . I put to those who want a simple ceasefire that a permanent end to violence would be help by people around Israel recognise its international boundary , and by Israel ensure that it could withdraw to its own boundary and stop the aggressive settler activity outside its own area in the west bank . the Father of the House make a good point . a two - state solution in which both side respect the other ' s right to exist and in which there be an end to settler violence be an essential precondition to any long - term peace in the region . I call the Scottish National party spokesperson . exactly as it say it would at the end of the humanitarian pause , Israel have resume its offensive in Gaza with full force , include an appalling attack on the M é decin Sans Fronti è re aid convoy . official figure estimate that 1 , 000 Palestinians be kill this weekend alone . a massive cull of innocent civilian be take place right now . it be blatantly obvious that all appeal make by the UK Government and other for Israel to avoid civilian casualty be be ignore . I wonder just how much this Government regret give Netanyahu that blank cheque , particularly as million of displace people be be squeeze into a wasteland on the egyptian border and the indiscriminate bombing continue . at the weekend , the EU ' s foreign policy chief , Josep Borrell , echo Scotland ' s First Minister , say : " the solution can only be political " and " centre on two state . " and he be correct . what be hold the UK Government back from officially recognise the state of Palestine , as a fundamental first step to achieve a long - term solution to this awful crisis ? I be grateful for the hon . Gentleman ' s contribution . we be painfully aware of the tragic and significant human impact of the miliary operation , especially with regard to civilian casualty . but the issue should not be simplify to the degree where we forget that Hamas be a terrorist group that be prosecute atrocity . we must see the civilian casualty as a product of the terrible conflict result from Hamas terrorist atrocity of 7 October . we continue to argue very strongly to Israel that military operation must be conduct accord to humanitarian law , avoid civilian casualty . on the two - state solution , one of the major obstacle be Hamas — a terrorist group commit to the destruction of Israel . if Hamas be in charge , there would be no two - state solution . a necessary prerequisite be the evolution of a well form of palestinian leadership in Gaza . if the RAF can fly surveillance plane over the Gaza strip in the much - need search for hostage and to help their release , what be to stop we from fly cargo plane over and parachute food and medicine to a starve population ? my right hon . friend will have hear in my opening statement that a very significant amount of humanitarian aid — 74 tonne — have be deliver via UK aircraft . we be redouble our effort . great utility lie in assess whether there can be a maritime route to increase humanitarian supply . I call the Chair of the International Development Committee . I welcome the response the Minister be give , but I want to hear the Foreign Secretary ' s response . on 16 November , we have a harrowing session with the humanitarian organisation on the ground in Gaza . we write to the Foreign Secretary , but have not have a reply . we have not have a reply either about when he will come in front of our Committee . with such a horrific and fast - move situation in Israel and Gaza , when can this House expect to hear from the Foreign Secretary ? I be sure it will be very soon . the idea that settlement be the reason there be not a two - state solution be just complete and utter tosh . the reason there be not a two - state solution be that Hamas seek the total genocide and ethnic cleansing of the state of Israel . they seek to murder every single Jew . they use the most awful sexual violence against woman on 7 October , some report of which we read in shocking detail in the Times this weekend . there have not be a word from either Dispatch Box so far about the information on the abuse of the hostage who have be release , or a condemnation of the violence . that be why there have not be a two - state solution . will the Minister confirm that the Government will continue to stay strong and support Israel in all its activity to root out this murderous terrorist cult ? I do not know if my hon . friend hear my previous answer , in which I say that a principal blockage to a two - state solution be Hamas themselves . they be a terrorist group who have commit the most heinous terrorist act . we therefore continue to be supportive of Israel ' s defend its people and its security . Palestinians have lose all hope of a two - state solution thank to the policy of the Netanyahu Government in recent year . would it not give they some hope if we follow other country ' lead and honour the vote take in this House nine year ago to recognise palestinian statehood ? our effort be focus on a more pragmatic avenue , work with ally in the region to ensure there be sustainable and more meaningful support right across the region for a two - state solution . if the Government accept that there can be no political solution unless Hamas be remove from control in Gaza , can the Minister explain to we who exactly will remove Hamas from that level of control in Gaza ? the political future of the Palestinians be a matter for Palestinians . I would like to start by agree with the hon . member for Brigg and Goole ( Andrew Percy ) , who speak about the rightful condemnation of the genocidal word from Hamas . these be the extreme of the debate , and on the other side of these extreme be Ministers in the israeli Government who be call for the dropping of a nuclear bomb on Gaza , and call the siege of Gaza and the spread of epidemic a good thing . those extreme do not represent where the majority of Palestinians , Israelis and the population across the world want to be , which be with this Government on two state . my question be simple : two state be all very well to say , but in term of resource what be the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office actually do to make it happen ? our considerable resource , by way of humanitarian aid and political and diplomatic effort , be entirely focus on that . we bring a considerable diplomatic heft in our relationship across the region , and we be an important and permanent member of the UN Security Council , so we must not underestimate our ability to bring positive political leverage to this situation . that be something we be resolutely focus on . over the weekend , the Times carry chill testimony of Hamas ' s extreme violence against woman on 7 October : gang rape , woman find with bloodied underwear , break bone from rape , beheading , and woman find with gunshot to their private part . what israeli woman hostage hold in Hamas captivity have endure , and may still be endure now , do not bear think about . will my hon . friend join I in condemn those appalling act of violence and this aspect of the ongoing humanitarian situation ? do he acknowledge that Hamas terrorist in custody have speak quite openly about their order to rape and defile woman ? I agree with my right hon . and learn Friend that these be deeply shocking report . they be sadly , and very painfully , characteristic of the kind of terrorist violence that we have come to expect from Hamas , and we deeply condemn they . last week , I have the opportunity to visit Qatar with a parliamentary delegation . we meet Dr al - Ansari , one of the official spokesperson , with Egypt , the US , Israel and other , involve in the negotiation to release hostage and secure the temporary humanitarian truce . it be clear that this be a fragile truce that require great pressure from the international community on all relevant party — from middle east country such as Qatar on Hamas , and from the US and the UK on the Israelis — to bring an end to this bloodshed . what be our Government do , as a permanent member of the UN Security Council and a G7 nation , to ensure that work be do to bring an end to the bloodshed and secure a permanent ceasefire ? that be what people of all background and community need . we need a peacebuilding process ; we need our Government to act . what be our government do ? we continue to use all lever at our disposal to argue for another humanitarian pause . regrettably , it seem that discussion of a ceasefire be premature , give that Hamas be commit to the destruction of the state of Israel . we be resolutely commit to another humanitarian pause , and we be use all mean that be available to we to argue for it . may I remind the Minister of the Prime Minister ' s word at Mansion House ? he say that the UK will " act to shape the world , not be shape by it " . I raise that with the Minister with regard to the loss of life that we have see across the board . we have to do everything we can to preserve human life . I support humanitarian pause to do that at a very early stage , but the time have come for the UK to take a lead at the UN as a member of the Security Council . lead at the Security Council ; call for a ceasefire with regard — [ interruption . ] we all have our own view on this matter . I have support humanitarian pause before , but the time have come for the UK to work towards a ceasefire , the release of all the hostage , humanitarian assistance and a political solution in line with our own Security Council resolution 242 and the 1967 border . when will we push that at the Security Council and lead the world on this matter ? we be continue to shape the outcome , and for we the most pragmatic and useful outcome at the moment be a further humanitarian pause , which we be argue for strongly . if every humanitarian pause be simply a prelude to the further bombing of Gaza by Israel , what will be leave other than a refugee camp and a wasteland , and who do the Minister think will govern that ? the hon . Member make a good point . of course , every civilian death be a tragedy , and the House be painfully aware of the human cost of the unfold tragedy . as I say , aside from military operation , the political future and the way that Palestinians represent themselves be a question for Palestinians . I welcome the Government ' s support for the extension of the humanitarian pause , so that more aid can get into Gaza and more life can be save . may I ask the Minister about post - conflict governance in Gaza ? Fatah be not Hamas , and Hamas be not Fatah , clearly — by definition . Fatah be marginally well in the eye of some Palestinians , but when they have go to the ballot box , the Palestinians have not vote for Fatah ; they have vote for other . I notice that there have be a lot of high - level diplomatic visit to the senior leadership of Fatah . may I encourage the Government to perhaps look more widely at who might form the Government of Gaza in the future , so that the UK do not repeat the mistake of the past and Fatah do not return to office only to be throw out year later and perhaps replace by a new Hamas ? it would be easy for we to prejudge and second - guess political outcome in the west bank or indeed in Gaza , but we will not do that . what we would seek post - conflict be a democratic renaissance of the ability of Palestinians to represent themselves and govern themselves responsibly , and we must not prejudge or second - guess that . like many other member , I have constituent who be british citizen and whose family be trap in Gaza and desperate for humanitarian visa . one constituent who write to I at the weekend say that her 79 - year - old mother have be displace nine time and be now in Rafah . she and her brother and sister , who be british citizen and senior professional , say that they do not want state fund because they can support their family , but surely they can bring their family — my constituent ' s 79 - year - old mother , her sister and her sister ' s six - month - old baby — to the United Kingdom in order to look after they . what can I tell these people about humanitarian visa , and will the Minister lean on the Home Office to address the question of issue humanitarian visa ? I note the hon . and learn Lady ' s question with interest . give that she have cite a specific case — that of her constituent with link to Rafah — we can pursue it individually if she furnish we with the detail . with the humanitarian pause now close , the nightmare be back for the remain hostage and their family , for the Palestinians in desperate need of aid , and also for all citizen on both side who be fearful of what fall from the sky . however , with no timeline and no clear plan , the next chapter be likely to be dark and more deadly . do my hon . friend agree that Israel will not , indeed can not , resolve the humanitarian , governance and security issue alone ? the international community have a vital role to play , not least to avoid escalation , so would the UK consider co - host an international summit with the United States and other stakeholder to begin the discussion that will start to resolve the big issue ? the international dimension be critical , and what be not in doubt be our ability and our intent to use our international diplomatic network and our connection across the region — because the regional approach be hugely important in this context . we will endeavour to use our connection throughout the Gulf state and the rest of the middle east , and internationally , to seek a just and long - term solution . what I want , what my constituent want and what the whole country want be to stop kill child , stop kill civilian . they do not know who be the good person or group of people to do that , but for God ' s sake , someone stop this killing of child . the image we have see of civilian death have of course be acutely painful . we continue to use our relationship with Israel to ensure that it be restrain in term of its application of force , and we be also forthright in our absolute condemnation of the terrorist atrocity perpetrate by Hamas and the grotesque effect that it have have on Israelis of all age . despite the humanitarian pause , the majority — 137 hostage — be still hold by the terrorist in Gaza . of those , two be child , 10 be over 75 and 20 be female , and there be 11 foreign national . clearly the negotiation with these terrorist break down over the weekend , so what action be the fcdo taking to ensure that the hostage be free and return to their family ? that be at the front and centre of our diplomatic effort internationally . obviously there be a complex web of negotiation effort on which I will not comment in detail , but we be painfully conscious of the need to exert all our institutional effort to bring those people home safely . the humanitarian crisis in Gaza be unspeakable , with 1 . 8 million people now displace , 33 , 000 injure — and the number of hospital bed down to about 1 , 400 and dropping — and more than 15 , 000 dead . my constituent Noura have lose her brother and nephew , who be blow up in their home after they go back when they think it be safe to do so . her sister - in - law have lose her limb , and two other child be in hospital in intensive care . I need to ask the Minister these question . what be the plan for humanitarian visa ? what be the plan for safe zone , and how serious be it ? what be the plan for people who have lose their home , their family member , and their limb ? what be the plan , seriously , to work with international ally towards a permanent ceasefire , the release of hostage , and a proper political solution ? the hon . Lady make a good point about the impact on hospital . that be why we have triple our aid . we be focus on channel it through the UN agency that can most effectively help people in hospital , whether by the provision of fuel or other supply . that be the groundwork that we hope will eventually unlock the political phase to improve the solution . it be humanitarian first , with the politic in tandem , which we be also do . the sexual violence mete out by Hamas on 7 October be horrendous . in the second half of last month , a number of member on both side of the House receive detail pass on by a doctor in Nasser Hospital in Khan Yunis , who say that three of his child and three of his grandchild be among the 45 man , woman and child in his house who have all be destroy that afternoon while he be work a hospital shift . we be pile misery on misery , so as one former infantry soldier to another , I ask my hon . friend to make sure that the british Government renew their plea for the great possible precision in pursuit of the terrorist so that we do not lose more civilian life in that way . my hon . friend speak with experience and knowledge , and we be make exactly those plea to our israeli colleague . eight week after the unjustifiable murder of jewish people in Israel and the countless rape of israeli and jewish woman , be the Minister disappoint that the United Nations woman ' s group make the most facile and mealy - mouthed statement that do not even use the word " rape " in describe what have happen ? will he use his and the Government ' s influence to draw to the attention of the United Nations the importance of get on side on this issue and condemn sexual violence against woman and the rape of woman ? just because they be Jews do not mean that they do not matter , and that point should be make to the United Nations over and over again . of course these report be shocking and we certainly condemn it . rape be rape , and we must call it out . the more detail we learn of the barbaric attack of 7 October and the treatment of the victim , especially the woman , the more horrific it become . one can only imagine the sheer anguish that the family of the victim go through on a daily basis as more information come out , so can my hon . friend tell I what humanitarian support be be provide to the family of the victim of Hamas ? that be a terribly good question . a large proportion of our triple humanitarian aid budget of £ 60 million will be channel through UNICEF and the other two UN agency , UNRWA and OCHA , and a large proportion of it will support woman affect by conflict . I be sorry , but I must press the Minister because I do not feel that he have answer the question on what the Government ' s strategy be , particularly the political strategy . we all feel this so strongly : no child should ever be the target of a terrorist or in any conflict , so what be the Government ' s political strategy to protect the life of child ? our strategy be to exert all effort to bring about peace . I welcome the Minister ' s grow success in get aid into Gaza and the tripling of UK aid , but even as he work urgently to get aid to the needy civilian of Gaza in the short possible time , will the Government redouble their effort to bring about a diplomatic solution , perhaps use a contact group , in order that we can grow the humanitarian pause into a just and last peace and a two - state solution ? that be exactly our strategy . it be to use diplomatic effort in concert with humanitarian effort to bring about a situation whereby diplomacy can take effect and the foundation can be lay of a long - term peace . we be clearly not there yet , and it will require a huge amount of diplomatic effort right across the region and a close relationship with many party . that be something to which we can bring a great deal of expertise and utility . what action have the Government implement to integrate their approach to prevent atrocity into the UK ' s foreign and development policy ? how have they involve the Office for Conflict , Stabilisation and Mediation ' s mass atrocity prevention hub in risk assess Israel ' s action in Gaza ? those issue be weave into the fabric of our diplomacy , and they be hugely important in all our work across the middle east , and nowhere more so than the occupy Palestinian Territories . the Committee to protect Journalists have say that 57 palestinian journalist have be kill in the Gaza strip since 7 October . it say this be the bad period for the killing of journalist since it start keep record in 1992 . do that not illustrate the wholly indiscriminate nature of what be be do by the Israel Defence Forces ? will the Minister impress upon the Netanyahu Government the complete unacceptability of this situation ? I do not accept the right hon . Gentleman ' s description of it be " wholly indiscriminate " , but of course I take seriously his comment about 57 journalist have be kill . that be tragic , but I take issue with his characterisation of it be " wholly indiscriminate " . of course we make representation to Israel to constrain and focus its operation , and we will continue to do so . like so many member , I again receive hundred of email this weekend from my constituent who be appal and horrify at the continue killing of innocent palestinian man , woman and child . they want the killing to stop , so will the Minister condemn the act of violence and extremism by israeli settler in the west bank and call on the israeli authority to prevent settler violence , to ensure accountability for perpetrator and to condemn extremist rhetoric ? this Government be on record — I say it in my statement — in condemn settler violence in the west bank , but we must be very clear that this military operation be under way in Gaza because of the terrorist atrocity carry out by Hamas on 7 October . that be the terrible and tragic truth . over 15 , 000 civilian have now be kill in Gaza , and Israel ' s military operation have not abate follow the pause in fighting . what specific request be the Government make to their israeli counterpart to stop the killing ? when the Minister say a ceasefire be " premature " , it sound like a tacit acceptance that the disproportionate and indiscriminate destruction of civilian area be a legitimate mean of Israel pursue its war aim . a ceasefire would only be possible if Hamas have not state their intent to wipe Israel off the map and to perpetrate another atrocity of the nature of 7 October . we be argue for a humanitarian pause to allow de - escalation and the further flow of humanitarian aid . I echo the call for a long - term political solution to this dreadful conflict , and for an end to the international community , include this Government , consign it to the " too difficult " pile . in the absence of the permanent ceasefire that I be sure we all want to see , do the Minister recognise , and will he reinforce , the warning from the United States and other that Israel ' s action in Gaza must be proportionate , otherwise they be in clear breach of international law , as the comprehensive evidence from multiple agency work on the ground in Gaza strongly suggest ? I be sure he care deeply about humanitarian issue , so will he join I in say that send text or qr code to advise people to evacuate a war zone , when there be no internet and no power to charge phone , be wholly inadequate and can not protect civilian and save innocent life ? we have call and continue to call on Israel to abide by international humanitarian law — that be not in doubt . its military response must be proportionate , and we continue to argue strongly that it should show constraint in its pursuit of Hamas ' s terrorist operative embed in the Gaza strip . on Friday , the hope for a permanent ceasefire turn to despair with the continuation of the collective punishment and killing of palestinian civilian , a large proportion of whom be woman and child , in what the United Nations be call " unprecedented " number . the Minister have just say that a ceasefire would be " premature " . will he clarify whether there be any limit — any limit at all — on the number of palestinian civilian that this Government support kill before call for a permanent ceasefire ? will he explain what he understand to be the long - term plan for Gaza and how that plan be in keep with international law ? regrettably , Hamas do not want a ceasefire . it would be good if that be the case , but it be not . they be a terrorist group commit to the destruction of Israel and they be on record state their desire to perpetrate another atrocity on the scale of 7 October . while that be a fact , the inevitable consequence be an israeli military response . we support Israel ' s right to protect its sovereignty , but we implore it to show constraint and avoid civilian casualty . attendant to that , we will argue for a further humanitarian pause to allow humanitarian aid to flow . Israel be clearly undertake an act of cleansing of the entire population of Gaza . it be illegal in international law and in no way be it a proportionate response to the appalling event of 7 October . what do the Minister think be Israel ' s long - term objective ? be it to expel the entire population of Gaza into Egypt ? what be the role , purpose and military objective of british military participation in the whole area ? can he assure we that there be no british soldier on the ground in Gaza ? it will be no surprise that I do not share the right hon . Gentleman ' s assessment or view of the context . it be clear that Israel ' s objective be to defend itself against the terrorist group of Hamas . in an early answer , the Minister say that the british Government be " forthright " in their condemnation of the atrocity of 7 October , which everyone agree with . when will the british Government be forthright in their condemnation of the murder of innocent palestinian child ? some 15 , 000 people have die so far . at the start of the conflict , half the Gazan population be child . when will the british Government call that out and say enough be enough ? we continue to argue for constraint , restraint and the application of military power accord to humanitarian law . Jason Lee , save the Children ' s country director for the Occupied Palestinian Territories , have just return from a five - day trip to Gaza . he write : " a young child might not understand what be happen , but they see the destruction around they . they see when their home , school and community be destroy . they hear everything that be happen around they , the air strike , the cry for help . and they feel the terror , the insecurity and the helplessness . " many right hon . and hon . member have raise the issue of innocent child , who have no part in what be go on , be kill . we can not watch while that continue . do the Minister agree that work towards a definitive ceasefire be the only way to a sustainable peace in the region ? the hon . Lady make a painful allusion to the view of Save the Children ; a large proportion of our increase aid budget be go to unicef to support child who have be affect . we would all like a de - escalation and ceasefire , but while Hamas remain intent on perpetrate another atrocity , like the one on 7 October , it be hard to see how there can be any other response than the military response of Israel defend its sovereignty . the Office of the Prosecutor of the International Criminal Court have issue a call for evidence regard possible breach of international humanitarian law in Israel and Palestine . be the UK Government in a position to contribute — indeed , will it be contribute — to that investigation ? not at this stage , but we will continue to take note . blacken by mould , eat by worm , and maul by stray dog . that be the fate of four premature baby who medical staff be force to leave behind after be force by the israeli military to evacuate al - Nasr Hospital in just 30 minute . what be the crime of those four vulnerable premature baby , who be leave to an unimaginable fate , and just how do the Minister plan on tell I that a humanitarian pause help they when a ceasefire would have save they ? the hon . Gentleman talk painfully about the humanitarian impact . of course , the tragedy be that Hamas do not want a ceasefire , and therefore the conflict will surely continue . I accept that Hamas be a terrorist organisation and their infrastructure need to be dismantle so that they can not commit any more atrocity , but that do not justify the unrelenting bombing that we see return to Gaza over the weekend . have the Government satisfy themselves that israeli bombing be precision bombing against terrorist target , and if they have not be able to satisfy themselves of that , why be they not call for a ceasefire ? we have argue , and will continue to argue , for restraint . the whole House will share the anguish that the hon . Gentleman express about the humanitarian and human impact . we continue to make the argument to Israel that it must be restrain and it must follow international humanitarian law . the UN Secretary - General recently say : " we be witness a killing of civilian that be unparalleled and unprecedented in any conflict since I have be Secretary - General . " over 16 , 000 Palestinians be dead , 70 % of they woman and child . hospital be be flood by an influx of dead body . over 41 , 000 people have be injure , 84 , 000 have diarrhoea , and 100 , 000 have acute respiratory distress syndrome . thousand of people be trap under the rubble , and 80 % of the Gazan population be now internally displace . there be bomb everywhere in Gaza . there be no safe place for these people to go to , so when will the Government ask for a definitive ceasefire and allow access for humanitarian aid ? the hon . Lady paint a move picture of the terrible human cost . that be why we will continue to call , with renew effort , for a humanitarian pause so that a great degree of aid can flow . I be a strong advocate of a full and proper ceasefire as a prelude to a wide political process . however , work have to be do to create the condition for a ceasefire , include the potential provision of security guarantee . what plan do the Government have to discuss with their international partner the creation of some form of peacekeeping or monitoring presence , either on the basis of the United Nations or some form of ad hoc arrangement , include in particular the arab state , in order to provide some form of confidence - building measure ? the hon . Gentleman make an interesting point . we be certainly use our regional network of diplomacy and diplomatic presence to discuss regional solution that may involve other arab state , because the political settlement will depend on long - term and sustainable regional support , whatever the outcome might be . I want to see an end to the violence in Gaza , which be what I recently vote for , along with Labour colleague . after the end of the fragile ceasefire last week , we desperately need the UK Government to work with international ally and push for peace , with the release of all hostage and an end to the killing of thousand of innocent Palestinians . as winter set in , do the Minister share my concern about a potential outbreak of cholera and other waterborne disease , and the risk of starvation and dehydration ? what step be the Government take to avert that ongoing crisis ? we be acutely aware of the manifold health risk in Gaza . that be why we have triple our aid budget , a lot of which will be channel through OCHA , UNICEF and UNRWA to attend to the risk pose by cholera and other disease . we continue to push for peace , and a humanitarian pause would be the first step towards that . on 30 October , the IDF ' s evacuation order direct Gaza ' s civilian southward , trigger mass internal displacement that the IDF say be for their own safety . on 1 December , the IDF order people to leave district in Khan Yunis , where many have go for their own safety , say they be in a " dangerous combat zone " . give that the IDF military action now stretch from Gaza City in the north to Rafah in the south , do the Minister agree with the UN ' s Volker T ü rk that " there be no safe place in Gaza " , and that only a permanent ceasefire can end this collective punishment of the Palestinians ? the hon . Lady make a good point , but tragically the reason be that Hamas have often seek to embed themselves among civilian infrastructure , and as long as that be the case , tragedy will ensue . the solution be a de - escalation , the defeat of Hamas and , in the first instance , a humanitarian pause to improve humanitarian access . allegation of breach of international humanitarian law should always be treat with the utmost seriousness . assess specific allegation be the proper task of lawyer in competent international court . do the Minister recognise , with Labour , that the International Criminal Court ' s jurisdiction must address the conduct of all party in Gaza ? we have long be on record as call for all party to abide by international humanitarian law . as the israeli authority be now bomb south Gaza — the very area they ask civilian to reach in order to be safe — do the Minister agree that the supply of arm to the israeli Government must be suspend , give that serious violation amount to crime under international law be be commit ? we support , and be on record as support , Israel ' s right to defend itself , and our relationship with Israel be in accordance with that . that do not mean that we do not at the same time argue for a de - escalation , a humanitarian pause and a return to peace . the United Nations Children ' s Fund say that Gaza be the most dangerous place in the world to be a child . France have offer place in its hospital to treat the most severely injure child . will the Minister now make a similar offer to the injured child of Gaza ? we need to be support child ; that be why a significant portion of our humanitarian aid , which we have triple to £ 60 billion , will be channel through UNICEF to attend to the need of child affect . we know that more than 15 , 000 Palestinians have be kill , 70 % of whom be woman and child , and there be still thousand unaccounted for under the rubble . the event of the last two day demonstrate that a pause in fighting be never go to be sufficient . I ask the Minister what on earth it will take for his Government to call for a permanent ceasefire on all side in order to prevent the bombardment of Gaza ' s civilian infrastructure , include not only its hospital and school — or what be leave of they — but its water facility . the hon . Lady be correct that the pause be not sufficient to meet all the humanitarian need . that do not stop we argue for a further pause , because of course that be the first step to a more sustainable path towards peace . I must say that the Minister come across as a passive observer while the further horror unfold . I wish he would use his agency and his role , because 1 . 8 million people in Gaza have be forcibly displace . People be tell to go south to avoid the bombing , but now Israel be indiscriminately bomb area there . the UN say that " there be no safe place in Gaza . " above all , this be a war on child . how many more child have to die before the Government add their name to the grow list of country around the world call for an immediate and sustained ceasefire ? I would say gently to the hon . Gentleman that in actuality this be a war on Hamas . surely the event of the weekend have show that a temporary pause or cessation of hostility be just not enough , and that what we need be a permanent ceasefire , which be what many people , include the british public as a whole , want to see . they want to see the release of hostage and a sustainable , credible political process so that we have a safe and secure palestinian state alongside a safe and secure israeli state , but it have come across in the statement that the Government have absolutely no plan . how many UK citizen and UK visa holder be still await evacuation from Gaza ? the hon . Lady say that one humanitarian pause be not enough . of course it be not enough ; that be why we be argue for another . that be an important part of our sense of there be a long - term obligation on we all to argue for a sustainable and long - term two - state solution . without a ceasefire or truce in place , there be no safe zone in Gaza . I have express concern before about the inadequacy of Al - Mawasi as a safe zone without any infrastructure or ability to get aid to innocent civilian . give that there seem to be no place for people to go and no hope for innocent civilian , do the Minister share my worry that the constant bombardment will drive the besiege people of Gaza into the arm of extremist , and what representation be the Government make to the israeli Government to express those concern ? frankly , the solution would be for Hamas to come out of their tunnel and surrender so that Gaza can return to normality . that be what we hope might happen . I accept that Hamas be a terrorist organisation , but child , journalist , aid worker and innocent civilian have die and continue to be under threat in Gaza . there be now a potential outbreak of airborne and waterborne disease . surely it be now time for the UK Government to finally call for a ceasefire as they work towards the release of all hostage and a political peace process . the hon . Lady make a good point about disease . it be why a large portion of the triple humanitarian fund of £ 60 million , channel through the three UN agency , will be focus on the prevention of contagious disease . we all want the killing to stop , and if we get to a point where there be an end to the violence on a long - term basis , what guarantee can we obtain from the UK Government that the many people who have be displace will be allow to return and that there will be sufficient infrastructure in place to ensure that they have something to return to ? the hon . Gentleman make a good point about post - war reconstruction and the return of civilian . of course , the UK will be at the heart of the international response that will attend to that . Madam Deputy Speaker : " a night of utterly relentless bombardment " — the bad of the war so far . those be the word of a unicef spokesperson this morning in Khan Yunis in the south of Gaza , where 1 . 8 million Palestinians be now trap as israeli bomb rain down on they . they be order to flee the north , and they be now be slaughter in the south . nowhere be safe in Gaza . as even UN expert warn of the grave risk of genocide , the UK Government continue to give their full support to Israel , call for pause in the slaughter but not a permanent ceasefire and an end to the slaughter . be the Minister happy to be part of a Government so deeply complicit in the horror be inflict on the palestinian people ? we continue to be forthright in our support for the absolute right of Israel to defend its people and its sovereignty . the tragedy that have unfold follow the Hamas terrorist abomination on 7 October of course bring pain to all side , but we will continue to be forthright in our commitment to Israel ' s security and , ultimately , I hope , to palestinian statehood , in a long - term and sustainable peace in the middle east . many of we absolutely recognise Israel ' s right to defend itself , and that Hamas and their approach be a barrier to a last peace solution , but we also absolutely despair that the Government ' s call for restraint be be so ignore by the israeli Government . do the Minister agree that the international community need to make it absolutely clear to every combatant in the conflict that the International Criminal Court be watch and people will be hold to account for their conduct ? his saying , " we call for humanitarian law to be follow " be simply not enough . People will be hold to account for their conduct in this war . the hon . Gentleman be state the fact of the matter : international humanitarian law , which we expect all side to follow , be there to be uphold . the humanitarian situation be escalate ; the disease burden be rise at such a pace that , without intervention , this will end up as a real humanitarian catastrophe . what discussion be the Minister have with the World Health Organisation and the UN to put in place what the aid agency be call for — a ceasefire — so that they can get on top on the disease burden across Gaza ? the hon . Lady make a good point about the disease burden . we be argue for an increase flow of humanitarian support and medical supply , not just via land but maybe via a seaborne route , and we will continue to do so . so many of my constituent continue to ask I to press the Government regard their action towards secure a ceasefire and to help the suffering of innocent civilian in Gaza . to that end , what recent discussion have the Foreign Secretary hold to urge Israel not to besiege or blockade Gaza , and to comply with international law and protect innocent life ? the Foreign Secretary have be hugely active , engage with many different nation . he be in Israel just some 10 day ago , make the point that we must ensure that the humanitarian impact of this conflict be constrain and limited . in Gaza , innocent Palestinians be face an unimaginable nightmare — a humanitarian catastrophe , with thousand of civilian , include child , be kill . far to his response to my hon . friend the Member for Luton South ( Rachel Hopkins ) , can the Minister provide more detail about what the UK Government be do to urge Israel not to besiege or blockade Gaza , and to comply with international law and protect innocent life ? we be point out that all side must abide by international humanitarian law , and that ultimately there can not be a military solution to political problem in the middle east . clearly , we hope that the terrorist group Hamas will not have a political role represent the palestinian people , but de - escalation and peace must come first . I thank the Minister for answer the urgent question . Legal Migration with permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I would like to make a statement on legal migration . migration to this country be far too high and need to come down . today , we be take more robust action than any Government have before in order to bring it down . since my first day in the Home Office , just three week ago , I have be determine to crack down on those who try to jump the queue and exploit our immigration system . I have be work closely with my right hon . friend the Immigration Minister on this subject . the recent figure from the Office for National Statistics show a provisional estimate of net migration for the year end June 2023 of 672 , 000 . while that be low than the ONS estimate for net migration for the year end December 2022 , it be still far too high . when our country vote to leave the European Union , we also vote to take back control of our border . thank to this Conservative Government , we now have a point - base immigration system through which we can control who come to the UK . we prioritise the skill and talent we need to grow our economy and support our NHS , and we have a competitive visa system for globally mobile talent ; for example , last year we expand health worker visa access to address the urgent need for more social care worker . the whole country can be proud that in the past decade we have also welcome more than half a million people through humanitarian route — people from Ukraine , Hong Kong and Afghanistan , include 85 , 000 from Ukraine and Hong Kong in the past year alone . the british people will always do the right thing by those in need , but they also , absolutely rightly , want to reduce overall immigration number . that mean not only stop the boat and shut down illegal route , but a well - manage reduction in legal migration . People be understandably worried about housing , GP appointment , school place and access to other public service when they can see their community grow quickly in number . from January 2024 , the right for international student to bring dependant will be remove unless they be on postgraduate course designate as research programme . we always want to attract the global bright and well . we have also stop international student switch out of the student route into work route before their study have be complete . these change will have a tangible impact on net migration ; around 153 , 000 visa be grant to dependant of sponsor student in the year end September 2023 . today , I can announce that we will go even far , with a five - point plan to far curb immigration abuse that will deliver the big ever reduction in net migration . in total , this package , plus our reduction in student dependant , will mean that around 300 , 000 few people will come to the UK in future year than come last year . these measure be possible because we be build up our domestic workforce and support british worker . thank to the excellent work of my right hon . friend the Work and Pensions Secretary , our back to work plan will help people stay healthy , get off benefit and move into sustainable employment . it build on the ambitious £ 7 billion employment package from the spring Budget to help up to 1 . 1 million people with long - term health condition or disability , or who have be in long - term unemployment , to look for work , get into work and stay in work . we be also invest heavily in help adult learn valuable skill and prepare for the economy of the future , and of course we have world - class university that help in that endeavour . the first point of our five - point plan will be to end the abuse of the health and care visa . we will stop overseas care worker bring family dependant , and we will require care firm in England to be regulate by the Care Quality Commission in order to sponsor visa . approximately 120 , 000 dependant accompany 100 , 000 care worker and senior care worker in the year end September 2023 . only 25 % of dependant be estimate to be in work , which mean that a significant number be draw on public service rather than help to grow the economy . we recognise that foreign worker do great work in our NHS and health sector , but it be also important that migrant make a big enough financial contribution . therefore , we will increase the annual immigration health surcharge this year by 66 % , from £ 624 to £ 1 , 035 , to raise on average around £ 1 . 3 billion for the health service of this country every year . secondly , we will stop immigration undercut the salary of british worker . we will increase the skilled worker earning threshold by a third to £ 38 , 700 from next spring , in line with the median full - time wage for those kind of job . those come on health and social care visa route will be exempt , so we can continue to bring in the healthcare worker on which our care sector and NHS rely . thirdly , we will scrap cut - price shortage labour from overseas by end the 20 % go rate salary discount for shortage occupation and reform the shortage occupation list . I have ask the Migration Advisory Committee to review the occupation on the list because of our new high skilled worker salary threshold , and we will create a new immigration salary list , with a reduce number of occupation , in co - ordination with MAC . fourthly , we will ensure that people bring only dependant whom they can support financially , by raise the minimum income for family visa to the same threshold as the minimum salary threshold for skilled worker , which be £ 38 , 700 . the minimum income requirement be currently £ 18 , 600 and have not be increase since 2012 . this package of measure will take effect from next spring . finally , have already ban overseas master ' s student from bring family member to the UK , I have ask the Migration Advisory Committee to review the graduate route to prevent abuse and protect the integrity and quality of the UK ' s outstanding high education sector . it need to work in the good interest of the UK , support the pathway into high - quality job for the global talent pool , but reduce opportunity for abuse . this package of measure , in addition to the measure on student dependant that we announce in May , will mean that around 300 , 000 few people will be eligible to come to the UK than come last year . that be the large reduction on record . immigration policy must be fair , consistent , legal and sustainable . that be why we be also take the fight to illegal migration . our plan to stop the boat be work . small boat arrival be down by a third , even as illegal migration across the rest of Europe be on the rise . today we have take decisive action to reduce legal migration with our five - point plan . enough be enough . we be curb abuse of the healthcare visa , increase threshold , cut the shortage occupation list discount , increase family income requirement and cut the number of student dependant . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Home Secretary . I thank the Home Secretary for advance sight of the statement . today ' s statement be an admission of year of total failure by this Conservative Government — failure on the immigration system and failure on the economy . it be another example of the total chaos at the heart of this Government . net migration have treble since the last election , when the Conservatives promise to reduce it , as a result of their policy on the economy and on immigration , include the Prime Minister ' s policy decision . in a chaotic panic , the Prime Minister now oppose the policy that he introduce and think that the Government ' s own decision be a problem . who do the Home Secretary think have be in charge for the past 13 year ? More chaos , more veer all over the place . net migration should come down . labour have call for an end to the 20 % unfair discount , for increase salary threshold to prevent exploitation and for the inclusion of advice from a strengthen Migration Advisory Committee . Most of all , we have call for a proper plan , with clear link between the immigration system , training and the economy , and workforce plan , none of which be in the statement , because the Government have no grip and no proper plan . this be a chaotic approach . immigration be important for Britain , and we have rightly help Ukraine and Hong Kong . we benefit from international talent and student . that be why the immigration system need to be control and manage , so that it be fair and effective , and why net migration should come down from record level . but there need to be a proper plan . it be this Conservative Government who bring in the 20 % wage discount that allow employer to recruit at less than the go rate , even though the Migration Advisory Committee warn against it , and even though it be completely unfair . they choose to apply salary threshold that be low than the Migration Advisory Committee originally propose , and to not update they for year . as Chancellor and then as Prime Minister , the right hon . member for Richmond ( Yorks ) ( Rishi Sunak ) repeatedly block proposal to tighten the rule , include in May this year , and include when the Government refuse labour ' s call to end the unfair 20 % discount . they repeatedly fail to listen to warning about the failure to train or pay properly in the UK . twelve month ago , I warn that work visa have substantially increase as a result of major skill shortage in the UK and that the Conservatives be not take any serious action to address those shortage . the Leader of the opposition warn 12 month ago that the immigration system should be link to new requirement to train up worker at home , but the Conservatives do nothing ; unbelievably they be still do nothing . there be nothing in this statement about training requirement or workforce plan . the Conservatives say that they want few shortage occupation , but it be only four month ago that they add bricklayer , roof tiler and plasterer to the shortage list . they have totally fail on construction training , and there be no plan to tackle that . engineering apprenticeship have halve since 2018 , so it be no wonder that engineering visa have go up . again , there be nothing to tackle those failure . social care visa have go up from 3 , 500 a year to more than 100 , 000 a year because the Government have fail for year to heed warning about recruitment and retention in social care . they halve the budget for social care workforce recruitment and support back in the spring , and they be still not listen and still refuse to adopt Labour ' s plan for a proper workforce strategy for social care , include professional standard and a fair pay agreement . they be fail to tackle the delay in the asylum system that have also push the net migration figure up . they be fail to tackle NHS waiting list that be prevent the long - term sick from go back to work . the Prime Minister be just crash around all over the place , reverse policy that he introduce , criticise policy he defend six month ago and introduce new immigration policy without any of the economic policy to match . a previous Prime Minister be accuse of be a shopping trolley , veer around from one side to another . the current Prime Minister be clearly veer , but he certainly be not steer ; he have just climb into someone else ' s shopping trolley and be be push around all over the place . can the Home Secretary tell we where the workforce plan be on social care , on engineering , on bricklaying and on all the shortage occupation that the Government ' s total economic failure have leave we with ? have the Migration Advisory Committee advise on these policy ? where be the reform to strengthen the committee so that it can do so ? why have the Government still not introduce our requirement on employer or on the Government to address the skill and labour shortage that be drive the increase in net migration in the first place ? the Conservatives be in chaos . they have no serious plan for the economy , no serious plan for the immigration system , and no serious plan for the country . Britain deserve well than this . I be wait for the policy announcement from the Labour party , and sadly I be still wait . the right hon . Lady talk about skill training . Hers be the party which , in government , dissuade people from invest in their own skill , tell people that the only good job be a graduate job , undermine apprenticeship . that be something we have set about repair through our entire time in government . Hers be the party that , in government , fail to put transitional measure in place when the EU expand , import significant number of people in the construction industry , which mean there be a disincentive to invest in people , technology and productivity — a situation that she now decry . she fail to make reference to the £ 7 billion employment package announce in the spring Budget that will help 1 . 1 million people get back into work and stay in work . when I be at the Dispatch Box in the day after my appointment , I say that Labour have a plan for migration . the problem that Labour Members have be that the plan they be propose be the plan I be already implement . work with the Minister for Immigration , my right hon . friend the Member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) since the day I be appoint , we have put forward the most substantial package of legal migration reform that the country have ever see . their great idea be already be put in place by this great government . I be very pleased to welcome about four and a half of the five announcement that my right hon . friend have make , particularly the crackdown on abuse of the dependant route , which have prove a weakness in the system over recent year , and the increase in the family visa rate . he be tell that this will cause apocalyptic damage , but when I first introduce the visa 10 year ago and set the rate at £ 18 , 700 , which he now say be too low , I be tell it would be apocalyptic for family life in this country . it be not — it be the right protection — and I be glad he be increase it now . however , may I ask he about the health and care visa , and particularly about the inability of people to bring dependant with they ? how many care worker do he think will be deter by that ? how many few will be come here ? there be a shortage of about 150 , 000 in the care sector at the moment , and I hope that the new approach be not a significant contributor to the reduction in number . if it be , it will cause damage to the care sector . my right hon . Friend ask an important question . my right hon . friend the Immigration Minister and I have crunch the number in great detail . what we have see through this scheme be the displacement of british worker . the total number of people in the sector have not increase by anywhere near as much as the number of people who have enter on the family visa route . we also suspect that , globally , there be significant surplus demand . although an individual with a family might be dissuade because of the restriction on family member , someone who do not have those family commitment will almost certainly be willing to put themselves forward , so we do not envisage a significant reduction in demand because of the change . it will mean , however , that we have the care worker we need and not the estimate 120 , 000 other people who have come with they in recent year . I call the SNP spokesperson . the statement will be judge on whether it be pander to the right wing of the Home Secretary ' s party or address the need of the economy — [ interruption . ] I see they all cheer . on the 120 , 000 dependant figure , can the Home Secretary tell I how many of they be child ? be he suggest that child should be go into work ? he mention his discussion with the Department of Work and Pensions , but what discussion have he have with the Health Secretary ? the Home Office figure show that 143 , 990 health and care worker visa be grant in the year end in September . that be more than double the figure for September next year , which perhaps demonstrate the real impact that create more barrier and red tape will have on the NHS and care sector . finally , Professor Brian Bell , chair of the Migration Advisory Committee , recently warn that limit on overseas care worker number could see a situation whereby " lot of people win ' t get care . " do the Home Secretary recognise that his proposal may cause irrevocable harm to the care sector ? the point about dependant be an incredibly important one . if the hon . Gentleman have listen carefully to the answer I give to my right hon . friend the Member for Ashford ( Damian Green ) , I make the point that we do not envisage a reduction in the number of people work in the care sector , but a reduction in the number of people come with those worker , the vast majority of whom be not in work . whether they be child or out - of - work adult , the simple truth of the matter be that that create a burden on the british welfare system , the education system , housing , school place and GP ' s surgery . the offer that we be make be clear : we be support the health sector and the social care sector , but we be do so in a way that minimise the additional pressure on community . it be incredibly easy for we to say and do thing that might superficially be view as generous , but the people who disproportionately carry the burden of the decision we make be those on the low salary , those who be struggle to find housing , and those who be on waiting list . we should be conscious of their need . that be why we be be thoughtful and careful about the people we be welcome into our country . rise — Order . before we go any far , colleague will recognise that a large number of people want to catch my eye for this statement . we have another statement afterwards , and then we have an important piece of legislation to which a large number of people want to speak , so I urge colleague to be brief in their question so that the Home Secretary can be concise in his answer . I will only be call people who arrive for the beginning of the Home Secretary ' s statement . I be trust those who be late not to be stand . do my right hon . friend think it would be a good idea to have a cap on the number come in ? although I understand the call for a cap , in practical term , manage a cap be difficult . we want to ensure that we be be as generous as possible to the people who contribute to our society and our economy . we also recognise that not every single individual be the same — a child could count as one person against a cap , as would an investor who may bring a huge number of job — and we want a difference between the two to be possible . I call the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee . as the Home Secretary will appreciate , the Home Affairs Committee be keen to scrutinise the policy of the Home Office . at our meeting last week , that prove difficult because we could not get information about , for example , the cost of the Rwanda policy , asylum backlog or the number of unaccompanied asylum - seek child still miss from hotel . can we please have an assurance from the Home Secretary that when the Immigration Minister appear before the Committee next week , we will have the full evidence base and economic impact for the policy announcement make today ? I have no doubt that the Immigration Minister , who be hugely experience in this portfolio , will come fully armed with fact and figure at his fingertip . we ease the driver shortage by train more people at home and pay they more . be that not the right model for the scarcity occupation ? my right hon . friend be right . what we want be a high - skilled , high - productivity , high - wage economy . these proposal and the work that my right hon . friend the Chancellor announce support that . labour would do the opposite . these proposal — some of they , at least — will be meet with absolute horror in the Lake district hospitality and tourism industry , which be a £ 3 . 5 billion industry . twenty million people visit our community every year , but because of the Government ' s failure to provide sufficient affordable home for local people and their stupid visa rule , we now have a massive workforce crisis . two third of our business can not meet demand because of inadequate number of worker . have the Home Secretary speak to anybody work in or manage the lake hospitality industry , or do he not care what they think ? my right hon . friend the Immigration Minister meet the Lake District tourist Board ; so , specifically in answer to the hon . member ' s question , yes , he have . the simple truth of the matter be that we have analyse the figure , and we know which sector have bring in the most people . hospitality in the UK be an incredibly important sector and a fantastic employer of local people . that be what we want to see in that sector . the net immigration figure be unsustainably high , notwithstanding the large element of Ukrainian and Hong Kong people come here , so I welcome most of the proposal , and particularly the action on dependant , which have go up sevenfold since 2020 , particularly pertain to care and health worker . we have hear about care worker recruit to home that do not exist and people trafficker put together people award visa and dependant with whom they have no connection . how will measure be take to ensure that the proposal be enforce and that such abuse do not continue ? we have already start to take action , and the plan that we have put forward today will take that far . ensure that care home be register with the Care Quality Commission go a long way to address the abuse that my hon . Friend discuss . we be put forward plan that support our economy , our health sector and the british people in a clear , transparent , predictable and fair way . can the Home Secretary tell we which business group or trade association support the proposal and be involve in develop they ? I have hear concern from business today that our national economic interest be once again in the hand of Tory head - banger . we continue to work extensively with business to ensure that their need for employee be support , and to support our economy in a way that do not undermine community or depress wage but support the high - skill , high - wage economy that we aspire to . clearly , the hon . Gentleman do not . be not the problem with a skill - base immigration policy that it give preferential access to banker , lawyer , accountant and economist , even though we have no need for such people in this country ? we have plenty of homegrown talent here . that make it difficult to recruit the people we do need : care worker ; people in the food industry and in manufacturing , or produce thing generally ; or in the tourism industry . will the Secretary of State consider move away from the fail skill - base migration policy towards one base on the need of our economy ? I have huge respect for my right hon . friend , but the figure just do not bear out his assessment . the vast majority of people in the last couple of year ' worth of immigration figure be in the low end of the skill spectrum . the figure do not bear out his point . there be no evidence that immigration push down wage . I do not know if the Secretary of State have any elderly relative in care , but I do . I know the invaluable contribution that overseas care worker make . many be young man and woman , for example from the Philippines , who be wonderfully hard - work , care and very respectful of elderly people . why should they be force to leave their dependent child thousand of mile away in the Philippines ? no one be be force to do anything . if people choose to come here , they choose to abide by the rule that we put in place . that be completely fair and appropriate . my mother come to work in the NHS in the 1960 . we value the people from around the world who have come to support we , but it be right and fair that we put rule in place , that we let people know those rule and , if they wish to come and join we in this wonderful country and work in our wonderful society , it be right and fair that they abide by those rule . my constituent will warmly welcome today ' s announcement , because immigration figure in recent year be clearly unsustainable . do it not speak volume that we be describe as head - banger for point out what be blindingly obvious to Government member ? what consideration have my right hon . friend give to an annual migration budget , so that we can all be hold accountable in this House for the choice that we make on behalf of our constituent ? my right hon . friend make an important point . ultimately , the decision that we make here affect the life of other . we should always be conscious of the impact of our decision . that be why we have listen carefully to those who have speak of housing shortage and school place become hard to find in their local area . with figure significantly high than promise , they would want we to take action . we be now take action — that be always part of take back control . we hear over and over from Opposition Members that they do not want we to take action . they be fundamentally wrong on this issue . when it be raise last week by my right hon . friend the Member for Normanton , Pontefract and Castleford ( Yvette Cooper ) , the shadow Home Secretary , it appear that the Home Secretary do not even realise that foreign worker be be pay 20 % less than UK worker — the so - call " salary discount " — but he have follow her good advice and I welcome the end of that discrepancy . how will the new payroll be apply to those already here ? it will be bring in in the early part of next year , in close co - ordination with the Migration Advisory Committee . no one who be already here will be disadvantage . ultimately , we want a high skilled , high wage , high productivity economy . the shadow Home Secretary say that the Labour party want to address those issue , but I make a quiet prediction to myself and other that each and every intervention from the Labour Back Benches would be in complete contradiction to her position from the Labour Front Bench . let we see . I thank the Home Secretary for his statement on the measure he will be take to bring down the number , which be too big and unsustainable , particularly for community in the south - east . now that he be make the good of be able to change the policy to suit the need of this country , will he consider an annual review to alter the requirement and rule to suit the need of this country over time ? my right hon . friend make exactly the right point . our promise to the british people be to take back control of our immigration system and our border , a policy that be , at the time and subsequently , oppose by the Labour party . take back control mean make adjustment , address the need of our economy and our society . the change I be put forward today be in response to our economic need , as well as our social need . there be a global skill shortage of health and care worker , so they have choice to go to other country that will accept dependant . what message do the Home Secretary have for the 7 . 8 million people currently on the NHS waiting list , when we will not have the skill to provide the care they desperately need ? as predict , each and every one of the speaker on the opposition Benches thus far have oppose the proposal I put forward , despite what the shadow Home Secretary say . as the hon . Lady will have hear I answer on two occasion , we do not envisage a reduction in demand because of the significantly large number of applicant that be originally envisage when the visa scheme be put in place . I find it baffle , give that well over 1 million people come to this country in the past two year , that the opposition party do not seem to think it a good idea to scale back . I congratulate my right hon . friend on this package . will he also look at the question of those who come she to study ? there be an automatic assumption at the moment that those who do so have a right to stay after they have study and look for a job . there be a case for revisit that and ask whether that be right in all circumstance . my right hon . friend be right to draw our attention to student . our university sector be a global success story and widely respect around the world . we want to make sure it maintain that reputation for quality . we want to make sure that the global bright and good who choose to come to study and work here be genuinely the global bright and well . high education should be a route to study and education , rather than a visa route by the back door . since the crew for fishing vessel be add to the shortage occupation list by the Government , only a handful of visa have be grant . that be not because of the earning threshold — most would meet that requirement comfortably — but because of the requirement for the english language test at level b1 . why do the Home Secretary think that b1 be an appropriate level for somebody work on a fishing boat ? an inability to speak English would hamper anybody , and it really be entirely reasonable to expect people come here to work to be able to do so . this year , vacancy in adult social care fall a little — the figure now stand at a " mere " 152 , 000 — which be due to a large increase in the number of care worker come to this country as part of the shortage occupation list . the Library tell I that , as of September , there be 121 , 000 vacancy in the NHS . what exact change do the Home Secretary envisage make to the shortage occupation list ? can he please show the working - out of the change to family arrangement , for which he say that he have crunch the number with the Immigration Minister ? above all , who do Ministers consult in the health and care sector ahead of today ' s legal migration announcement ? we ask the Migration Advisory Committee to look into these thing — that it why it exist — however my hon . friend make a very important point , which speak to why we be tighten the system to prevent abuse . anyone look at the number will see that a significant number of people have come through the health and social care visa system over the last couple of year , yet we have lose they from health and social care . that be not what any of we need or want . the right thing to do be to ensure that those who come be genuinely employ in that sector , which be where we need they — that be the promise that they have make to we , and that we have make to they . ensure that that be the case be the right and fair thing to do . the Minister say : " migration to this country be far too high and need to come down . " but as other have say , so many of those who come to this country make a critical contribution to our employment sector , no more so than by fill the gape hole in our social care and health sector . I would be interested to hear the Minister ' s response to Unison , the social care trade union , which say : " the care system would implode without migrant care staff . " do he not agree that a well , more humane approach would be to fund local government to improve social care pay and condition ? there we go again . as I have say , while the shadow Home Secretary say that immigration number be too high , each and every one of her Back Benchers disagree with any action to deal with it . we have get to bring these number down , we have commit to do so , and we have put forward a thoughtful plan , which take into consideration the need of the health and social care sector . I think the howl of outrage from the Opposition Benches highlight the inconsistency in Labour ' s position , give that it be the party that want to overturn the referendum and introduce unlimited free movement of labour . do the Home Secretary agree that pressure from migration put pressure on local family and young people who want to buy or rent their own house , and will he consider that every time he grant more visa for people to come to this country ? this be an incredibly important point , and it be why control of immigration be so important . we be a generous country . we have demonstrate that generosity time and time again , whether it be towards the Ugandan Asians , people from west Africa , people from Hong Kong or people from Ukraine . we be rightly proud , but it be also important that we prove that we be thoughtful about the implication for those who live here , whether they have live here for decade , for year , or for generation . that be why it be right that we have put forward these proposal , which be carefully calibrate to support our economy and our health and social care need , but also to bring down those figure . the net migration figure be now 672 , 000 — three time the level at the 2019 general election , when the Conservatives promise to reduce it . do the Home Secretary concede that the Tories have fail miserably on immigration policy , along with a whole host of other policy , and that that be why their time be now well and truly up ? no , I do not . I congratulate the Government on take a thoroughly common - sense view in raise the threshold to £ 38 , 000 — and I say that as a senior citizen member of the New Conservatives — but the Home Secretary say in his statement : " those come on health and social care visa route will be exempt , so we can continue to bring in the healthcare worker on which our care sector and NHS rely . " what do that phrase mean ? will such action not drive a coach and horse through this measure ? surely the solution be for the care sector to pay proper wage . we have recognise the recruitment challenge for domestic worker in the health and social care system , and we have make it clear on a number of occasion that we will not allow those extremely important public service , on which we rely , to be without the staff that they need . what we want to do be bring in the people who be employ in those sector , but not the dependant whom they have typically bring with they . that will enable we to lower the headline number , which we have commit ourselves to do , while protect the health and social care sector , which we have also commit ourselves to do . the Home Secretary have admit several time that we be lose people from the health and social care sector , both domestic worker and people whom the Government have bring in , but he have say nothing about increase pay , have he ? we have say over and over again that we be work towards a high - productivity , higher - skilled , high - wage employment sector , across all sector of employment . what we have say be that the current visa regime have displace worker , which be why we be change it . the people of Stoke - on - Trent , North Kidsgrove and Talke will welcome today ' s announcement from the Home Secretary and the Immigration Minister , while also recognise the faux outrage of Opposition Members who can talk tough through their rhetoric from the Front Bench . the squirming on the Back Benches of uncomfortableness when it come to talk about immigration be something that I thoroughly enjoy , especially as we know that they wish to return free movement via the back door . will my right hon . friend confirm that future review will look to stop the dependency route for those on one - year Masters by Research degree course as well ? we have commit to do a wide review of the high education , post - graduate route , and I take my hon . friend ' s point on board . we have already take action , but I commit to review it , and once we have see the outcome of the review , I will be able to update my hon . friend and the House on the decision that we make . a choice could have be make between protect the flank against Reform UK and back british business . I do not understand how the Home Secretary can think that the way to create job for local people be to starve sector such as the science industry of , for example , the lab technician require to drive what they need to do . how on earth do he think that anyone in Oxford West and Abingdon will be help to get a job when the industry that employ they be not able to grow ? it would have be well have the hon . Lady listen to the point that be make about protect the scientific community in and around Oxford by ensure that we remain attractive to the global bright and good , and protect the people who need our protection in the health and social care sector by ensure that those sector be staff . the simple fact be , however , that we have commit ourselves to bring these number down . what we be propose will bring those number down , and will do so in a way that reinforce our commitment to a higher - skilled , more productive , high - wage economy . do the Home Secretary accept that , in order for any large - scale immigration policy to succeed , it be necessary for people to wish to integrate ? what step be the Government take to ensure that there be a smooth path to integration for those large number of people who come here ? my right hon . friend make an incredibly important point . I reply early about the need for english language . if somebody be deny the ability to communicate in the country that they choose to call home , they will be permanently disadvantaged and find it hard to integrate . we want people to integrate ; we want people to be and feel part of our community . we want the community that they move into to welcome they and to be confident that the immigration system of this country support not only those new arrival who choose to make this country their home but the people who already live here . after 13 year in power and seven year after we vote to leave the EU , I do not know why anyone would believe that this Government will reduce net migration in the way that be be claim today . but if we assume the Home Secretary ' s figure be right , net migration will still be high than it be in 2019 when his party promise to reduce it . that be right , isn ' t it ? the simple truth be that the british people have far more confidence in the party that campaign to take back control of its immigration system , than they do in the party that would maintain free movement and whose contribution from the Opposition Benches have , unsurprisingly , be in opposition to the decision that we be take to bring down the number of net migration . I very much welcome the announcement today , and particularly the measure to stop the abuse of the health and care visa . the Home Secretary will be aware of a number of bogus care company that be charge people ten of thousand of pound to come to this country , only to find that there be no job . many of they be end up in Cornwall . I think I understand he to say that these measure would be introduce in the spring . can I urge he to look at bring that forward so that we can end what be effectively people traffic and rip people off and the misery that it be cause ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . the people who be bring here on a false premise be victim of abuse of this system . we be already take action to address those abuse , and this package of reform go far still , with the necessity to be subscribe to the Care Quality Commission . he be absolutely right to say that abuse hurt everybody , and we will continue to take action to address they . net migration figure be also affect by the number of people who choose to leave the country , and since Brexit it have be much more difficult for people from Glasgow North who want to live , study or work in Europe for any extended period of time . what step be the Government take to negotiate more visa exchange programme with the European Union and other country that could allow the sharing of skill and experience across border , with at the very least a neutral effect on net migration ? without want to drift back into my old portfolio , I have , in close co - ordination with my right hon . friend the Immigration Minister , negotiate a number of youth mobility programme to attract the bright and the good . the hon . Gentleman talk about people leave certain geography . he might want to reflect on the fact that a significant number of people be leave Scotland to come south of the border because of the pernicious income tax regime that the Scottish National party Government in Edinburgh have put in place . I would like to thank my right hon . friend the Home Secretary and the Immigration Minister for listen to we . I be sure that the measure he have announce today will be welcome by constituent in Grimsby , but do he agree that we need these measure to come quickly and that we perhaps need more conditionality ? for instance , if people be come here supposedly to take up skilled or skill - shortage job but be not do so , perhaps we should invite they not to stay . I thank my hon . friend for her comment about these reform , and I pay tribute to my right hon . friend the Immigration Minister , who have be work on this for long than the three week that I have be in this role . my hon . friend be right to say that we want to bring people here in good faith and that we expect they to act in good faith . if they apply via a certain visa route , we expect they to abide by the conditionality of that visa route . if they contribute , play by the rule and do the right thing , they will always be welcome , but we take a dim view of those people who seek to abuse our hospitality . immigration figure have treble since the 2019 general election , and it be worth remind ourselves that , back then , the Conservatives tell we that they be go to reduce immigration to the ten of thousand . the scale of the failure be enormous , as underline by the Office for National Statistics , which say that 90 , 000 asylum seeker have be wait over a year for their asylum case to be deal with , so more than 15 % of it be due to the sheer incompetence of the Secretary of State ' s Department . what be he go to do about that ? I do not hear any reference to it in his statement . we have increase the pace of decision making in our asylum processing system tenfold . I remind the hon . Gentleman that in recent year we have make very generous offer to the people of Hong Kong and Ukraine . I know the british people will recognise which of our two party will grip immigration , and it certainly be not his . this excellent package be a big step in the right direction , towards a high - skill , high - wage economy with less pressure on our housing and infrastructure . will my right hon . friend put in the Library the analysis behind his statement that this package , plus the previously announce reduction in student dependant , will mean that more than 300 , 000 people who come last year would no long be able to do so ? it would be interesting to understand how much of that be the previously announce reduction in student dependant , how much of it come from each of the announcement make today and how it compare with the forecast for future migration lay out by the OBR in the most recent economic and fiscal outlook . will he put that in the Library ? a previous Government be rightly mock for say that only ten of thousand of people would come from eastern Europe , and they be completely wrong . as well as have a well policy , can we also have more transparency ? my hon . friend make an important point , and I be more than happy to put in the Library our estimate of the impact of these announcement and the previous announcement . I understand exactly what the Home Secretary be try to do on migration , and there be a need to do some of those thing . I work closely with the Northern Ireland Fish Producers Organisation back home , and fishing be an industry that welcome foreign worker as there be a clear shortage . when we leave the EU , the fishing sector be promise that thing would get well , that quota would make stock more available and that the fishing sector would therefore grow . the fishing sector welcome that . the minimum income be set at £ 18 , 600 , whereas the average wage of a fisherman in Northern Ireland be £ 24 , 000 . the english language become the next obstacle , and the fishing sector try to agree to it . will there be some realism on the skilled worker threshold of £ 38 , 700 , which will not give the fishing sector the opportunity it need to be active in employ people ? I take the hon . Gentleman ' s point . we will work with the MAC to ensure that , as we get rid of the shortage occupation list , we do not undermine key industry . I want to ensure that the fishing industry , whether in Northern Ireland or on the east coast of Scotland , can remain viable and profitable . that will always be part of our thinking . I warmly welcome this statement and these measure . I thank my right hon . friend , the Home Secretary and the Minister for Immigration , for listen to colleague on both side of the House , and especially those in our New conservative group . extraordinary growth in immigration level over recent year have be mask some long - term structural weakness in our economy , such as low productivity , high debt , fall birth rate and a negative balance of trade , by prop up the OBR ' s superficial gdp growth figure . do my right hon . friend the Home Secretary agree that , in order to bring down immigration number permanently , the OBR must instead turn its attention to the kind of growth that really matter to our constituent : skill growth , wage growth , housing growth and industry growth ? in other word , real growth . I assure my hon . friend that the Government remain relentlessly focused on those very issue . increase skill , increase productivity and increase investment in plant , machinery and technology to unlock the full economic potential of this country be at its heart . we will always make our case to the OBR . we will do what we know to be in the good interest of this country and of the people who work in this country . I commend my right hon . friend on at last tackle an unsustainable issue , but be he , like I , a little concerned that two very high - rank official be unable at a parliamentary Committee to answer basic question on migrant issue ? will he assure I that this will not happen in future and that he will push through these five excellent point forthwith ? I assure my hon . friend that we will deliver these proposal with alacrity and at pace . my constituent believe migration figure be too high , so I welcome today ' s statement and thank the Home Secretary and the Immigration Minister for their hard work to develop the proposal . we hear from the opposition how some large business will bemoan the fact that they no long have access to cheap labour undercut the british workforce , but do the Home Secretary agree that raise the threshold to £ 38 , 000 mean that business will need to invest in technology , high wage and well condition for the domestic workforce ? to be really profitable , a lot of business understand that their good choice be to invest in their own business and people . through the super - deduction policy put forward by my right hon . friend the Chancellor , we be encourage business to invest in technology to unlock productivity and in the people they employ , because we be committed to a high - wage , high - productivity , high - growth economy . I welcome today ' s announcement , which will cut about 300 , 000 people off our net migration figure . do the Home Secretary agree that the number of migrant the UK allow in each year should be directly proportionate to the number of new home , GPs and school place we have , because at the moment the situation be completely unsustainable ? an important part of take back control of our migration process be to give planner , particularly at local government level , some kind of certainty about the demand . we see the demand from migration fall unevenly across the UK , put some community , particularly coastal community , under great pressure . we want to ensure we have a plan , control immigration system . we be make these change and bring the number under control so that local government planner and other have more certainty about the future . I welcome the measure , but it be a shame they have take so long . they should have be publish after the last ONS stat be publish , when I suggest a number of idea about how we could keep our promise to the british public . there be great cynicism among the public about politician talk about immigration — they have hear it all before . will the Home Secretary promise that in the month ahead , he will explicitly demonstrate to the british public that this time it be different , we mean it and they will see change ? I assure my hon . friend that the Immigration Minister and I have our first conversation on these figure before the ONS figure come out . I discuss the plan , which he have be work on for some time , within hour of be appoint to this role . we be work closely with the Treasury and other Departments on the implication . across Government , the package be subscribe to and it will be deliver . while we recognise that it will not provide an instant fix — the House have to be realistic about that — we be commit to bring the figure down and take back control of our border . I warmly welcome the measure . I thank the Home Secretary for his highly robust statement and the Immigration Minister for his excellent work , which respond to the concern of my constituent in Bassetlaw and the constituent of other member . do my right hon . friend agree that the measure mean we will continue to bring the bright and good to this country , as well as those seek help and refuge , such as those from Ukraine and Hong Kong , but not those who , along with their dependant , do not represent a net benefit to the UK and who consume more than they contribute ? I visit business in my hon . friend ' s constituency not long ago , and I could see the desire among the business that we meet , whether they be traditional metalworking business or high - tech drone business , for the bright and the good . they want people who be genuinely committed to contribute to our economy . that be the default setting of the british people . we be generous at heart , and we have a track record of be very generous , but we expect people to play by the rule and to contribute to our society and economy . that be not too much to ask . we be put those condition in place — condition that , unsurprisingly , be oppose over and over again by all opposition party . I declare an interest as the chair of the all - party parliamentary group for the Philippines . after the UK and India , the Philippines provide the third high number of worker in our health service , and we would be in a very difficult place without their vital work to keep we safe and well . I welcome that people come on the healthcare visa will be exempt from the increase salary requirement , but the cost of permanent residency remain extremely challenging and a barrier to entry . give that the Home Secretary have speak a number of time about integration , and the importance of such people in our community , will he meet I and representative of the Philippine Nurses Association to discuss how we might help they to make this country their permanent home as thank for their amazing work ? I recognise the contribution that medical professional from the Philippines make to the UK ; indeed , I be in Manila not long ago , just before I be appoint Home Secretary . I value their contribution . we want to ensure that we support the people who want to come here and work , that we fill those role , and that by use technology — there be technological opportunity in the health and social care sector — we increase productivity to fund wage increase . I will of course speak with the hon . member , and if my diary commitment allow I will try to find an opportunity to speak with representative of the Filipino community in the UK as well . risk and resilience : Annual statement we live in a dangerous and volatile world . the risk be more numerous , more complex , and evolve more rapidly than ever before . the aftermath of the global pandemic , Russia ' s ongoing aggression in Ukraine , extreme weather event , cyber - attack , malign AI use case — all those and more threaten the security , safety and stability of our nation . protect people be the first duty of government , which be why resilience be a top priority for this Government . it be quite simply the mean by which we seek to prevent risk from become a reality . when I publish the resilience framework last December , I promise to provide an annual update to the House on our progress . this statement fulfil that commitment . the accompany paper set out in full the progress that we have make , but allow I to detail to the House the key improvement that I be confident have greatly improve our resilience . we have make change to our structure , such as the introduction of the resilience directorate , COBR unit and situation centre . we have initiate new capability , such as the new emergency alert system . we have bolster our resource towards severe threat , such as through our biological security strategy , underpin by over £ 1 . 5 billion of annual investment , and we be embed a whole - of - society approach to resilience that reflect the fact that everybody have their part to play . as Deputy Prime Minister , I be the lead Minister for resilience and I chair a new resilience sub - committee of the National Security Council . the Government need to be ready to respond to any and all risk , so we must maintain the flexibility to respond to whatever confront we . in the last year , as chairman of the UK resilience forum , I have regularly convene blue light and local responder , industry leader and representative from the voluntary sector with Government . we have continue to play an active role with international partner , include the OECD , NATO and five Eyes , and bilaterally with our ally . through the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities we be significantly strengthen the capability and capacity of local resilience fora . the national risk register publish this year be the most transparent ever , because it be vital that we all understand the threat that we face — and when I say all of we , I mean the whole of society , from Government to emergency responder , industry , voluntary and community leader , and citizen . last week I be at Porton Down — in the constituency of my right hon . friend the Minister for the Cabinet Office and Paymaster General , I believe — to inspect the vital work do there to protect the United Kingdom from chemical , biological and radiological threat . I see the laboratory where highly skilled staff dedicate themselves to improve our preparedness for future pandemic and to defend our country against malicious attack such as those we see in Salisbury . the people I meet at Porton Down and our wide resilience community be on the frontline . they make our people safe and our country strong . I champion they and pay tribute to they for the work they do . I also pay tribute to the local resilience fora up and down the country , who be there for we when we need they through every kind of crisis , as we see demonstrate most vividly during the covid pandemic . our work to make our country as resilient as possible be a constant endeavour . the resilience framework set out ambitious plan to continue to strengthen the framework , system and capability that underpin the UK ' s resilience through to 2030 , and we be build on those plan . the Government have a role in bring all the actor together and give they the skill they need . today I can announce that we be develop a new UK resilience academy that will improve the skill of those group . it will provide a range of learn and training opportunity for the whole of society . for professional , there will be a curriculum to build skill , knowledge and network , and a centre of excellence for exercise . for business , there will be great guidance , with particular assistance on threat to critical national infrastructure and cyber . for citizen , there will be a unified Government resilience website , which will provide practical advice on how household can prepare as part of a campaign to raise awareness of the simple step individual can take to raise their resilience . the covid pandemic demonstrate the overwhelming community spirit of our nation , through the vaccine army , the thousand of NHS worker who return to the frontline and the million who , through little act of kindness , seek to protect the vulnerable and the lonely . there will be a new website to provide a volunteering hub — a one - stop shop to help all those who want to help their community when crisis strike . we be continue to develop our approach to chronic risk — the challenge that , if leave unchecked , will continue to erode our economy , society , community and national security . build on the national risk register , we be develop new analysis and a programme of action that we will publish next year . as the covid - 19 pandemic show , shock have impact across the whole of society , include impose significant economic consequence . that be why we have allocate an additional £ 10 million of new funding for research on risk to the economy and to our public finance , to well factor in the saving we can achieve in the long run by spend on resilience today , ensure the stability of our economy and support the sustainability of our public finance well into the future . we have make considerable progress over the past year and our focus be now firmly on the month , year and , indeed , decade ahead . we be learn the lesson of the covid - 19 pandemic , which shine a light on the importance of resilience , as well as the lesson of the UK ' s world - lead vaccine programme , which set we free again and demonstrate the importance of prevention rather than cure . resilience be our immunisation against risk . these measure be a shot in the arm for Britain and its national security . the world may be more dangerous than ever , but we will be well prepared than ever . I commend the statement to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I thank the Secretary of State for advance sight of his statement . he be right that resilience be a critical function for the Government , local government , public service , business and society in an ever more volatile world . I congratulate he on survive the year between the publication of the national resilience framework and the delivery of this statement . that be a rare achievement in a Government in which the principle be that everybody get to be famous for 15 minute . I congratulate he on his longevity . I also welcome the Secretary of State ' s announcement of the UK resilience academy and the volunteering hub . he be right that , give the chance , the british public will step up to help their fellow citizen . we should have a broad concept of resilience , be it physical , cyber , financial , in supply chain , in the public realm , in our value or in our democracy , so let I ask the Secretary of State about some of that . the need for great resilience have be underline by the recent history of our country . Covid expose huge flaw in advance planning , which end up cost the taxpayer billion of pound , some of which be waste on dodgy contract , some lose to downright fraud . never again should the country be put at the mercy of inside track , vip lane and special access for those who happen to know ministerial phone number . what lesson have the Government learn from the huge degree of waste and fraud in covid contract , and why have so little taxpayer ' money be recover compare with the vast amount that be lose in the first place ? the invasion of Ukraine and the subsequent energy crisis expose the short - sightedness of get rid of gas storage , ditch home insultation programme and be expose to hugely volatile energy spot market . why be the Government ' s new policy to roll back on the transition mandate by their own net zero legislation and prolong our reliance on international fossil fuel market ? for those failure , the british public have pay a heavy price . how will the Government increase resilience in the public estate ? school ' capital budget be cut back on the Prime Minister ' s watch when he be Chancellor . school roof be fall in , disrupt child ' s education . when will the Government be able to ensure that child do not have to be teach in classroom in which the ceiling be hold up by temporary support ? that should not be too much to ask . of course , not all risk be physical , and we have both opportunity and challenge in the development of artificial intelligence . we have see cyber - attack in recent year , such as the WannaCry attack on the NHS and the ongoing attack on the British Library . I appreciate that that be a major challenge ; the old distinction between state and non - state actor be blur . what more can the Government do to protect critical system from cyber - attack ? that bring I to perhaps our most important asset : our democracy itself . with an election come some time in the next year , I be sure that the Secretary of State would agree that we need to do all we can to ensure that it be conduct in a free and fair manner . with that in mind , why have the Government be so slow to implement the recommendation of the Intelligence and Security Committee in its report on Russia , which be publish a couple of year ago ? the Committee call russian influence in the UK " the new normal " , cite connection at the high level with " access to UK company and political figure , " and say that Russia carry out " malicious cyber activity in order to assert itself aggressively , " for example by interfere in other country ' election . in the face of those finding , how will the Government ensure that our forthcoming election be protect against interference , either from Russia or by any other actor ? finally , may I ask the Secretary of State about the governance of the strategy ? the perennial question for a cross - departmental strategy such as this one be whether it be drive by the Departments or by the centre . give the traditional strength of Departments in the whitehall system , how can he ensure that the centre over which he preside be strong enough to enforce preparedness and deliver the national resilience that member on both side of the House want to see ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his word about my longevity — I very much intend for that to continue , and I will take his comment in the spirit in which I be sure he mean they . he ask about a range of issue and I will seek to address as many as I can , but I will be happy to follow up if I miss any . first , the right hon . Gentleman talk about the range of risk that we face as a nation . he be absolutely right that one of the principal task of the Government and , indeed , my Department be to be across all of those risk , which we have do for many year through thing such as the national security risk register . however , what we have do differently since covid be to be much more public about those risk through the national risk register , which set out the range of risk that the nation face , their likelihood and their impact . we have put an unprecedented amount of information into the public domain to help people prepare , whether as individual or in business , local government or voluntary organisation . the right hon . Gentleman ask about covid preparedness . that be precisely why we have introduce the biological security strategy , a £ 1 . 5 billion annual investment to prepare ourselves for the whole range of biological hazard we might face . the 100 - day challenge be part of that strategy . if we have another pandemic , whatever form it take , the crucial thing will be get rapidly from the point at which the disease be sequence to an effective vaccine . we be boost our capability to enable we to do that within 100 day , because we see during covid that that be the key to set people free . turn to covid contract , I gently point out to the right hon . Gentleman and the opposition that at the time of covid , Opposition Members be constantly call for we to go fast and look at a wide range of supplier ; I think at one point we be urge to seek the service of costumier and football club . since then , we have recover huge amount of money by establish the Public Sector Fraud Authority , which have recover double its target in the first year . the right hon . Gentleman mention energy resilience . this government have invest in renewable . we have not only the world ' s large offshore wind farm , but the second , third , fourth and now the fifth large , with many more in the pipeline . I be in constant contact with my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , and we continue to work to ensure the resilience of our energy network this winter . the right hon . Gentleman be absolutely right to raise the risk around cyber . as I have say to the House previously , it be undoubtedly the case that the risk landscape around cyber continue to increase , not just in this nation but around the world , year in and year out . that be drive by a range of factor , not least , as he highlight , the grey zone between hostile state actor and cyber - criminal . against that backdrop , we continue to increase our resilience , include through the creation of the ministerial cyber board and the National Security Council ' s resilience committee , which I chair . the right hon . Gentleman also mention democracy and how we will prepare ourselves for forthcoming election . election will happen not just in this nation but in many other next year — indeed , in this nation , it could be the year after . that be why we have instruct the defend democracy taskforce to make sure we be fully resilient . finally , the right hon . Gentleman talk about governance . for many year , include when he be a Minister , we have be govern by the lead Government Department model , in which each Department take responsibility for the risk set out in the national risk register . however , this Government have create for the first time a specific committee of the National Security Council — the resilience committee , which I chair — whose task be to hold those Departments to account . that be precisely what we be do . I remind colleague that a lot of right hon . and hon . member be hope to participate in the next debate . as such , it would be very helpful if question be brief , so that the Deputy Prime Minister can be concise in return . how would a future pandemic be different from the previous one in term of strategic stock of protective equipment , and vaccine research , manufacture and distribution , should we be visit with such a disaster by a chinese wet market or even a laboratory ? my right hon . friend tempt I to talk about the origin of covid . I will simply highlight that the World Health Organisation continue its investigation , and we be very much supportive of that . as for what we be do differently , the key thing be to move from the establishment of the disease to the vaccine with the 100 - day taskforce . we have also overhaul our governance structure . for example , we have split the long - term risk and the short - term risk by create a totally separate unit that deal with long - term risk , which be head by a head of resilience . that will enable the Government to deal with the long - term risk but also focus on the short - term challenge . when I be at Porton down last week , I see the kind of investment that the UK Health Security Agency be make in precisely this area , whether in capacity to test vaccine ’ effectiveness or to test the testing equipment . I be confident that while there be more to do , as I set out in my statement , we continue to improve our performance . I call the SNP spokesperson . the Deputy Prime Minister have talk about resilience , and the requirement that the whole of society step up and assist . I appreciate and agree with the whole - society approach that he have describe ; it be right that everybody — every individual , public service and charitable organisation — should assist at time when there be massive public issue , such as during covid . however , we have have 13 year of austerity and a constant squeeze on the public sector . the public sector be cry out for more help and support , charity be scream that they can no long cope with this austerity , and individual be struggle more than I have see in my 16 year as an elect representative . I have never see people struggle to such a level , yet the Deputy Prime Minister be ask they to step up . how can he have the gall to ask they to step up and assist other when they have nothing leave to give ? it be within the gift of the Government to help and support people , but they be refuse to do so , instead require those people to take it upon themselves . how can the Deputy Prime Minister ask that of people today , when I be see more people have to choose between heating and eating than I have ever see before , and more people who be suicidal come through the door of my surgery than ever before , and this Government have it within their power to help people ? the hon . Lady ' s characterisation be simply false . first , it be because of the discipline the Government show between 2010 and when the pandemic strike that we have the resource that enable we to intervene in an unprecedented way , through the covid recovery scheme and other measure , to help over 10 million people keep their job . we would not have be able to do that without the fiscal discipline this Government show . on measure to support people , we have : the boost to the winter fuel payment of an additional £ 300 per household ; the pensioner cost of live payment of £ 600 that will help with heating cost over the colder month ; a £ 150 rebate on winter electricity bill through the warm home discount ; and I could go on . we be provide support for the vulnerable . the website and other measure facilitate people ' s ability to volunteer and help their community , so I find it odd that the SNP be set against that . the report of disruption at the British Library , and report in the Guardian today that computer system at Sellafield may have be hack by foreign actor , be an alarming reminder of how digitally dependent we be and the potential huge risk associate with cyber - security . what single thing since the Deputy Prime Minister ' s last annual report have change to make we a more cyber - resilient country ? since the last report , through the ministerial cyber board we have for the first time map the risk across all of Government , and hold Departments to account for improve their performance . on the point raise by my right hon . friend about Sellafield , I assure the House that many of the issue be historical . the regulator have for some time be work with Sellafield to ensure that the necessary improvement be implement , and we be expect regular update on progress . the Environment Agency estimate that the number of home at risk of flooding could double by 2050 due to the impact of climate change . this mean that the recent devastating flood in my constituency will become only more common . what be the Government do to prevent that increase in flood risk and to build defence that will withstand not the current rain level but the deluge that be anticipate by 2050 ? that be exactly why we be invest over £ 5 . 2 billion for the period 2021 to 2027 , which be double the previous amount . that have already result in more than 60 , 000 property be well protect , and there be a large pipeline of work arise from that unprecedented investment . I welcome the great transparency that my right hon . friend have bring to the threat face the country . can he assure I not only that there be robust plan in place to deal with the high impact risk , but that they be regularly test through tabletop and proper exercise , include with Ministers ? how will the new resilience academy enhance that capability ? my hon . friend speak from experience , have previously work in the Cabinet Office , and he be absolutely right to highlight the importance of exercise . indeed , we conduct Exercise Mighty Oak , a major national exercise programme in relation to power outage , early this year . we be currently develop the forward programme for national exercise , and I will be able to provide an update shortly on our progress . indeed , it form part of the national resilience academy to train people in that kind of exercise . one big driver of flood risk from our waterway be raw sewage pollution , which have not improve since 2016 . when I be start out as a math teacher , it do not take I long to realise that let some of my class mark their own homework be quite a naive approach and do not drive performance . when will the Government learn the same lesson and recognise that the current self - report regime for raw sewage discharge simply be not work ? the Government have introduce an unprecedented package to address sewage discharge . on resilience more widely , we have put £ 150 million into the flood and coastal resilience innovation programme to ensure that , as we develop flood defence , we also look at how we protect against , for example , coastal erosion and wide risk to seawater . I welcome this statement . although prevention be of course vital , resilience be also about how we respond to crisis and fight back . that be well illustrate in the help give by agency during the massive recent cyber - attack on Gloucester City Council , when not only be our service restore , but our enemy be disrupt . local authority be a big target of hacker and ransomware seeker , so will the Deputy Prime Minister look carefully at the suggestion make by the Joint Committee on the National Security Strategy that he emulate his predecessor Oliver Letwin ' s Flood re scheme with a new " Cyber re " to insure those who can not be insure by the market and provide local authority with the resilience and the finance to withstand any such attack ? my hon . friend raise a very important point . first , I pay tribute to the National Cyber Security Centre , which help council up and down the country deal with these cyber - attack when they hit . I be discuss insurance with my right hon . friend the Security Minister , and we be keep an open mind . there be argument for and against it , not least that we do not want to create incentive whereby local authority and other will not undertake the necessary measure , but there may well be a case for do so and we be continue to explore that . I welcome , as other have , the recognition that resilience will be crucial if we be to withstand another pandemic or major incident , and that the one thing we have learn be the danger of complacency . however , my constituent in Edinburgh West also want to know what be be do to improve our resilience to those event that hit we every year , such as flooding , heavy snowfall and storm . will that be a high priority for this resilience group ? the short answer to that be yes . that be why , for example , we have for the first time introduce cold weather warning , work with the Met Office , which we have not do before . I have already outline to the House the unprecedented level of funding we be put into flood risk prevention . indeed , when we look at the risk that may face we , the most common risk be likely to be relate to severe weather in this country , and it be a big focus for the Government ' s effort . whether it be fraud , threat to cyber - security or the emergent risk of new technology such as AI , the great defence we can have be well education and awareness so that individual and business can well protect themselves , and that be especially true for our child . could my right hon . friend talk about how the new academy can play into the curriculum so that child can protect themselves against threat of misinformation , disinformation and criminal attack , and about how that will help child and family ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to highlight this . as he say , AI will increase the threat landscape vis - à - vis cyber risk ; I hope that we can also apply AI to reduce those risk . we be already work with the National Cyber Security Centre to develop product to inform individual , and the new academy will work to provide education material . if everyone act straight away when they get one of those annoying alert to run the update on their mobile phone , it would be the single good thing we could do to increase this nation ' s cyber - resilience . I very much thank the Deputy Prime Minister for his statement and the answer — every one — that he have give . on encourage business to build resilience in a broad range of operation , I believe we must consider the risk in relation to the cost of energy , and other have ask similar question . what discussion have the Deputy Prime Minister have with devolve administration — for example , on ensure that business be able to build resilience on net zero target and energy commitment — to ensure and secure prosperity for the future for everyone ? the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right to raise this . under this government , we have see a 68 % reduction in carbon emission , which be fast than the EU , the United States of America and other . we be world leader in many technology , not least offshore wind and , I hope shortly , in the next generation of carbon capture and storage . we continue to work very closely with business to help they build that resilience [ Official Report , 16 January 2024 , Vol . 743 , c . 10mc . ] . I thank the Deputy Prime Minister for his statement and for respond to question . Bill Presented Animal Welfare ( Livestock Exports ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Secretary Steve Barclay , support by the Prime Minister , Secretary Oliver Dowden , Secretary Alister Jack and Secretary David T . c . davy , present a Bill to make provision to prohibit the export of certain livestock from Great Britain for slaughter . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time tomorrow , and to be print ( Bill 17 ) with explanatory note ( Bill 17 — EN ) . victim and Prisoners Bill consideration of Bill , as amend in the Public Bill Committee [ relevant document : Second Report of the Justice Committee of Session 2022 - 23 , Pre - legislative scrutiny of the draft Victims Bill , HC 304 , and the Government response , HC 932 ; Third Report of the Justice Committee of Session 2022 - 23 , IPP sentence , HC 266 , and the Government response , HC 933 ; oral evidence take by the Justice Committee on 9 May and 16 May , on the Victims and Prisoners Bill , HC 1340 ; correspondence from the Ministry of Justice , on the Victims and Prisoners Bill , report to the House on 26 June and 28 November 2023 ; correspondence from the Chair of the Justice Committee to the Lord Chancellor , on the Victims and Prisoners Bill , report to the House on 6 June 2023 . ] New Clause 20 - domestic abuse relate death review ' ( 1 ) the Domestic Violence , Crime and Victims Act 2004 be amend in accordance with subsection ( 2 ) to ( 4 ) . ( 2 ) after section 8 insert — " domestic abuse relate death review 8a Establishment and conduct of review ( 1 ) in this section " domestic abuse relate death review " mean a review of the circumstance of the death of a person which be hold — ( a ) where the death have , or appear to have , result from domestic abuse towards the person within the meaning of the Domestic Abuse Act 2021 , and ( b ) with a view to identify the lesson to be learn from the death . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State may in a particular case direct a specified person or body within subsection ( 6 ) to establish , or to participate in , a domestic abuse relate death review . ( 3 ) it be the duty of any person or body within subsection ( 6 ) establish or participate in a domestic abuse relate death review ( whether or not hold pursuant to a direction under subsection ( 2 ) ) to have regard to any guidance issue by the Secretary of State as to the establishment and conduct of such review . ( 4 ) a person or body within subsection ( 6 ) that establish a domestic abuse relate death review ( whether or not hold pursuant to a direction under subsection ( 2 ) ) must send a copy of any report set out the conclusion of the review to the Secretary of State and the Domestic Abuse Commissioner . ( 5 ) the copy must be send as soon as reasonably practicable after the report be complete . ( 6 ) the person and body within this subsection be — chief officer of police for police area in England and Wales ; local authority ; NHS England ; integrate care board establish under section 14Z25 of the National Health Service Act 2006 ; provider of probation service ; Local Health Boards establish under section 11 of the National Health Service ( Wales ) Act 2006 ; NHS trust establish under section 25 of the National Health Service Act 2006 or section 18 of the National Health Service ( Wales ) Act 2006 . ( 7 ) in subsection ( 6 ) " local authority " mean — ( a ) in relation to England , the council of a district , county or London borough , the Common Council of the City of London and the Council of the Isles of Scilly ; ( b ) in relation to Wales , the council of a county or county borough . ( 8 ) the Secretary of State may by order amend subsection ( 6 ) or ( 7 ) . " ( 3 ) in section 9 ( establishment and conduct of domestic homicide review ) — ( a ) in each of subsection ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) — ( i ) for " Secretary of State " substitute " Department of Justice in Northern Ireland " ; ( ii ) for " ( 4 ) " substitute " ( 4 ) ( b ) " ; ( b ) omit subsection ( 3A ) , ( 3b ) , ( 3c ) , ( 4 ) ( a ) , ( 5 ) and ( 6 ) . ( 4 ) in section 61 ( order ) , in subsection ( 3 ) , for " 9 ( 6 ) " substitute " 8a ( 8 ) " . ( 5 ) in section 26 of the Police , Crime , Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 ( relationship of offensive weapon homicide review with other review requirement ) , in subsection ( 1 ) ( b ) — ( a ) after " of a " insert " domestic abuse relate death review or " ; ( b ) for " section " substitute " section 8a and " . ' — ( Edward Argar . ) this new clause , to be insert after clause 15 , concern review of death in England and Wales that may be relate to domestic abuse . bring up , and read the first time . I beg to move , that the clause be read a second time . with this it will be convenient to discuss the follow : government new clause 21 — information relate to victim : service police etc . government new clause 22 — mean of " major incident " etc . government new clause 23 — appointment of standing advocate . government new clause 24 — Publication of report . government new clause 25 — Part 2 : consequential amendment . government new clause 26 — imprisonment or detention for public protection : termination of licence . government new clause 37 — restrict parental responsibility where one parent kill the other . new clause 1 — re - sentence those serve a sentence of imprisonment for public protection — ' ( 1 ) the Lord Chancellor must make arrangement for , and relate to , the re - sentencing of all prisoner serve IPP sentence within 18 month begin on the day on which this Act be pass . ( 2 ) those arrangement must include arrangement relate to the establishment of a committee to provide advice regard the discharge of the Lord Chancellor ' s duty under subsection ( 1 ) . ( 3 ) the committee establish by virtue of subsection ( 2 ) must include a judge nominate by the Lord Chief Justice . ( 4 ) a court that impose an IPP sentence have the power to re - sentence the prisoner in relation to the original offence . ( 5 ) but the court may not impose a sentence that be a heavy penalty than the sentence that be impose for the original offence . ( 6 ) in relation to the exercise of the power in subsection ( 4 ) — ( a ) that power be to be treat as a power to re - sentence under the Sentencing Code ( see section 402 ( 1 ) of the Sentencing Act 2020 ) ; ( b ) the Code apply for the purpose of this section ( and , accordingly , it do not matter that a person serve an IPP sentence be convict of an offence before 1 December 2020 ) . ( 7 ) in this section — " ipp sentence " mean a sentence of imprisonment or detention in a young offender institution for public protection under section 225 of the Criminal Justice Act 2003 or a sentence of detention for public protection under section 226 of that Act ( include such a sentence of imprisonment or detention pass as a result of section 219 or 221 of the Armed Forces Act 2006 ) ; " original offence " mean the offence in relation to which the IPP sentence be impose . ( 8 ) this section come into force at the end of the period of two month begin with the day on which this Act be pass . " this new clause would implement the recommendation of the Justice Committee ' s 2022 report that there should be a resentencing exercise in relation to all IPP sentence individual , and to establish a time - limit expert committee , include a member of the judiciary , to advise on the practical implementation of such an exercise . new clause 2 — appointment of an advocate to represent IPP prisoner ' interest — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State may , by regulation , establish a list of advocate to further the interest of prisoner serve imprisonment for public protection ( IPP ) sentence . ( 2 ) for the purpose of subsection ( 1 ) , the Secretary of State may set out minimum qualification for any person to be appoint as an IPP advocate . ( 3 ) a person may only act as an IPP advocate if the Secretary of State consider that the follow condition be satisfied — ( a ) they have have appropriate experience or training or an appropriate combination of experience and training ; ( b ) they be of integrity and good character ; and ( c ) they be able to act independently of any other person who be professionally concerned with the qualifying prisoner ' s continue imprisonment . ( 4 ) the Secretary of State may pay to , or in respect of , such a person — ( a ) amount by way of remuneration , pension , allowance or gratuity , and ( b ) sum in respect of the expense of the IPP advocate . ( 5 ) regulation under this section be to be make by statutory instrument ; and an instrument contain regulation make under this section be subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of Parliament . ' this new clause , and new clause NC3 would allow the Secretary of State to appoint a number of independent advocate to act on behalf of over - tariff prisoner sentence to imprisonment for public protection . new clause 3 — function of an IPP advocate — ' ( 1 ) any IPP prisoner who have exceed their minimum tariff period be entitle to ask for the assistance of an IPP advocate . ( 2 ) an IPP advocate may not provide legal service or advice to an IPP prisoner . ( 3 ) an IPP advocate may — ( a ) visit and advise an IPP prisoner at the facility where they be imprison ; ( b ) subject to subsection ( 2 ) , appear before the Parole Board on behalf of an IPP prisoner ; ( c ) visit and advise an IPP prisoner who have be release on licence . ( 4 ) for the purpose of this Act , " IPP prisoner " mean a person sentence to imprisonment for public protection under the Criminal Justice Act , or any successor Act . ' this new clause set out the function of an IPP advocate . they will not provide legal advice , but will provide practical advice , support they at the Parole Board and on release . new clause 4 — Parole Board : victim personal statement — ' ( 1 ) it be the duty of the Parole Board to ensure that victim be offer the opportunity to give their view in the criminal justice process by make a personal statement . ( 2 ) where a victim have opt - in to the Victim Contact Scheme , the Parole Board must record whether the victim have be offer the opportunity to provide a personal statement to the Parole Board before it make a decision relevant to the victim . ( 3 ) the Parole Board must report annually to the Secretary of State on the datum record under subsection ( 2 ) and on its compliance with the duty under subsection ( 1 ) . ( 4 ) the Secretary of State must lay a copy of any report receive under this section before Parliament within 15 day of receipt . ' this new clause would place a duty on the Parole Board to ensure that victim be offer the opportunity to give their view in the criminal justice process and require it to report to the Secretary of State on its compliance with that duty . new clause 5 — duty to develop a single core datum set of victim of child sexual abuse — ' ( 1 ) the responsible authority must make arrangement to develop a shared , single core datum set concern victim of child sexual abuse and child sexual exploitation in England and Wales . ( 2 ) in accordance with subsection ( 1 ) the responsible authority must direct child ' s social care and criminal justice agency to collect consistent and compatible datum which include — ( a ) the characteristic of victim and allege perpetrator of child sexual abuse , include — ( i ) age , ( ii ) sex , and ( iii ) ethnicity , ( b ) the factor that make victim more vulnerable to child sexual abuse or exploitation , and ( c ) the setting and context in which victim have experience child sexual abuse or exploitation . ( 3 ) the responsible authority must ensure that the data be publish each month . ( 4 ) for the purpose of this section , the responsible authority be — ( a ) in England , the Secretary of State ; and ( b ) in Wales , the Welsh Ministers . ' new clause 6 — assessment of number of independent domestic violence and sexual violence advisor , stalk advocate and specialist support service — ' within six month of the passing of this Act , and annually thereafter , the Secretary of State must — ( a ) make an assessment of the adequacy of the number of independent domestic violence and sexual violence advisor , stalk advocate , and specialist support service in each region of England and Wales , have regard to the population in each region , and ( b ) publish that assessment . ' this new clause would require the Secretary of State to make an assessment of the adequacy of the number of isva , idva , stalk advocate and specialist support service in each region of England and Wales . new clause 7 — improve accessibility and awareness of the Victims ' code — ' ( 1 ) in prepare the draft of the victim ' code under section 2 , the Secretary of State must take all practicable step to ensure that the code be fully accessible to all victim and to promote awareness of the code among those victim and associate service . ( 2 ) for the purpose of this section the Secretary of State must by regulation prescribe — ( a ) that criminal justice body must signpost victim to appropriate support service , and ( b ) that appropriate training be deliver to staff in criminal justice body , include by specialist domestic abuse service . ( 3 ) the step take under subsection ( 1 ) must include step aim at ensure that victim who — ( a ) be deaf , ( b ) be disabled , ( c ) be visually impaired , or ( d ) do not speak English as their first language , be able to understand their entitlement under the code . ' this new clause seek to ensure that the victim ' code be accessible to all victim and associate service . new clause 8 — access to service for victim with no recourse to public fund — ' ( 1 ) notwithstanding the provision of any other enactment , a victim of domestic abuse who — ( a ) have leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom which be subject to a condition that they do not have recourse to public fund , ( b ) require leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom but do not have it , ( c ) have leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom give as a result of a maintenance undertaking , be entitle to be provide with service in accordance with the victim ' code . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation make provision that be consequential on this section . ( 3 ) for the purpose of this section — " domestic abuse " have the same meaning as in section 1 of the Domestic Abuse Act 2020 ; " victim " have the meaning give by section 1 of this Act . ' this new clause would ensure that victim of domestic abuse who do not have recourse to public fund be still entitle to be provide with service in accordance with the victim ' code . new clause 9 — meaning of " honour - base abuse " — ' ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must by regulation make by statutory instrument define the meaning of " honour - base abuse " for the purpose of section 1 . ( 2 ) before make regulation under this section , the Secretary of State must carry out a consultation about — ( a ) what conduct should amount to " honour - base abuse " for the purpose of section 1 , and ( b ) any definition of the meaning of " honour - base abuse " propose by the Secretary of State . ( 3 ) in carry out a consultation under subsection ( 2 ) , the Secretary of State must consult — ( a ) organisation that appear to the Secretary of State to represent those who have an interest in the meaning of " honour - base abuse " for the purpose of section 1 ; ( b ) any other person that the Secretary of State consider appropriate . ( 4 ) a statutory instrument contain regulation under this section may not be make unless a draft of the instrument have be lay before and approve by a resolution of each House of Parliament . ' new clause 10 — Sewage Illness Victim Compensation Scheme — ' ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must by regulation provide for a compensation scheme for victim who have suffer harm as a direct result of criminal conduct in relation to sewage and waste water . ( 2 ) regulation under subsection ( 1 ) must — ( a ) provide for the payment of compensation to people who have become unwell as a result of bathe in water contaminate by sewage , ( b ) make provision in relation to the medical evidence require to support a claim for compensation under the regulation . ( 3 ) regulation under this section may not be make unless a draft of the instrument have be lay before and approve by resolution of each House of Parliament . ' new clause 13 — duty to co - operate with Commissioner for Victims and witness — ' ( 1 ) the Commissioner may request a specified public authority to co - operate with the Commissioner in any way that the Commissioner consider necessary for the purpose of monitor compliance with the victim ' code . ( 2 ) a specify public authority must , so far as reasonably practicable , comply with a request make to it under this section . ( 3 ) in this section " specify public authority " mean any of the following — ( a ) a criminal justice body , as define by subsection 6 ( 6 ) , ( b ) the Parole Board , ( c ) an elect local policing body , ( d ) the British Transport Police Force , ( e ) the Ministry of Defence Police . ( 4 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation amend this section so as to — ( a ) add a public authority as a specify public authority for the purpose of this section ; ( b ) remove a public authority add by virtue of paragraph ( a ) ; ( c ) vary any description of a public authority . ( 5 ) before make regulation under subsection ( 4 ) the Secretary of State must consult the Commissioner for Victims and witness . ( 6 ) a statutory instrument contain regulation under subsection ( 4 ) may not be make unless a draft of the instrument have be lay before and approve by resolution of each House of Parliament . ' this new clause would place a duty on specified public authority to co - operate with the Commissioner for Victims and witness . new clause 14 — major incident : duty of candour — ' ( 1 ) in discharge their duty in relation to a major incident , public authority and public servant and official must at all time act within their power — ( a ) in the public interest , and ( b ) with transparency , candour and frankness . ( 2 ) if a major incident result in a court proceeding , official inquiry or investigation , public authority and public servant and official have a duty to assist — ( a ) relate to their own activity , or ( b ) where their act or omission may be relevant . ( 3 ) in discharge the duty under subsection ( 2 ) , public authority and public servant and official shall — ( a ) act with proper expedition ; ( b ) act with transparency , candour and frankness , ( c ) act without favour to their own position , ( d ) make full disclosure of relevant document , material and fact , ( e ) set out their position on the relevant matter at the outset of the proceeding , inquiry or investigation , and ( f ) provide further information and clarification as order by a court or inquiry . ( 4 ) in discharge their duty under subsection ( 2 ) , public authority and public servant and official shall have regard to the pleading , allegation , term of reference and parameter of the relevant proceeding , inquiry or investigation but shall not be limit by they , in particular where they hold information which might change the ambit of the say proceeding , inquiry or investigation . ( 5 ) the duty in subsection ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) shall — ( a ) be read subject to exist law relate to privacy , datum protection and national security , ( b ) apply in a qualified way with respect to private law and non - public function as set out in subsection ( 6 ) , and ( c ) not be limit by any issue of insurance indemnity . ( 6 ) the duty in subsection ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) shall be enforceable by application to the relevant court or inquiry chairperson by any person affect by the allege breach , or the court or inquiry may act of its own motion . where there be no extant court or inquiry proceeding , the duty may be enforce by judicial review proceeding in the High Court . ' this new clause would require public authority and public servant and official to act in the public interest and with transparency , candour and frankness when carry out their duty in relation to major incident . new clause 15 — referral of release decision to the Court of Appeal : life prisoner — ' after section 32za of the Crime ( Sentences ) Act 1997 insert — " Referral of release decision to Court of Appeal 327ZAA Referral of release decision to Court of Appeal ( 1 ) this section apply where — ( a ) a prisoner be serve a life sentence impose in respect of an offence specify or describe in section 32zab ( the " relevant sentence " ) , ( b ) the Parole Board be require to make a public protection decision about the prisoner under section 28 ( 6 ) ( b ) or 32 ( 5A ) , and ( c ) the public protection decision relate to the relevant sentence . ( 2 ) where the Parole Board have make a decision in a case to which this section apply — ( a ) the Secretary of State may refer the decision to the criminal division of the Court of Appeal , or ( b ) a victim may apply to the Secretary of State to request that the prisoner ' s case be refer to the criminal division of the Court of Appeal . ( 3 ) within [ 30 day ] of an application be make under paragraph ( 2 ) ( b ) , the Secretary of State must — ( a ) exercise the power under subsection ( 2 ) ( a ) and refer the prisoner ' s case to the criminal division of the Court of Appeal , or ( b ) provide to the victim a write statement explain why they have decide not to exercise that power . ( 4 ) this section apply in relation to a prisoner whose sentence be impose before , as well as after , this section come into force . ( 5 ) but nothing in this section affect the duty of the Secretary of State to release a prisoner whose release have be direct by the Parole Board before this section come into force . ( 6 ) in this section , " public protection decision " have the meaning give by section 28za ( 2 ) . 327ZAB Offences for purpose of Court of Appeal referral ( 1 ) the offence specify or describe in this section ( for the purpose of section 32zaa ) be — ( a ) murder ; ( b ) manslaughter ; ( c ) an offence under section 5 of the Domestic Violence , Crime 10 and Victims Act 2004 , where a child have die as a result of the prisoner ' s unlawful act ; ( d ) an offence specify in any of paragraph 41 to 43 of Schedule 18 to the Sentencing Code ( specify terrorism offence other than inchoate offence ) ; ( e ) an offence that be not an inchoate offence and be determined to have a terrorist connection , within the meaning give by section 247A ( 7a ) of the Criminal Justice Act 2003 ; ( f ) an offence under section 1 of the Sexual Offences Act 2003 ( rape ) ; ( g ) an offence under section 5 of that Act ( rape of a child under 13 ) ; ( h ) an offence under section 6 of that Act ( assault of a child under 13 by penetration ) ; ( i ) an offence under section 8 of that Act ( cause or incite a child under 13 to engage in sexual activity ) ; ( j ) an offence under section 47 of that Act ( pay for sexual service of a child ) against a person age under 16 ; ( k ) an offence under section 1 of the Sexual Offences ( Scotland ) Act 2009 ( asp 9 ) ( rape ) ; ( l ) an offence under section 18 of that Act ( rape of a young child ) ; ( m ) an offence under section 19 of that Act ( sexual assault on a young child by penetration ) ; ( n ) an offence under section 20 of that Act ( sexual assault on a young child ) ; ( o ) an offence under section 21 of that Act ( cause a young child to participate in a sexual activity ) ; ( p ) an offence under Article 5 of the Sexual Offences ( Northern Ireland ) Order 2008 ( S . I . 2008 / 1769 ( N . I . 2 ) ) ( rape ) ; ( q ) an offence under Article 12 of that order ( rape of a child under 13 ) ; ( r ) an offence under article 13 of that order ( assault of a child under 13 by penetration ) ; ( s ) an offence under Article 15 of that order ( cause or incite a child under 13 to engage in sexual activity ) ; ( t ) an offence that — ( i ) be abolish , and ( ii ) would have constitute an offence refer to in paragraph ( a ) to ( s ) if commit on or after the date on which it be abolish . ( 2 ) a sentence in respect of a service offence be to be treat for the 35 purpose of section 32zaa as if it be a sentence in respect of the corresponding offence . ( 3 ) in subsection ( 2 ) — ( a ) " service offence " mean an offence under — ( i ) section 42 of the Armed Forces Act 2006 , ( ii ) section 70 of the Army Act 1955 or the Air Force Act 1955 , or ( iii ) section 42 of the Naval Discipline Act 1957 ; ( b ) " correspond offence " mean — ( i ) in relation to an offence under section 42 of the Armed Forces Act 2006 , the corresponding offence under the law of England and Wales within the meaning of that section ; ( ii ) in relation to an offence under section 70 of the Army Act 1955 or the Air Force Act 1955 , the corresponding civil offence within the meaning of that Act ; ( iii ) in relation to an offence under section 42 of the Naval Discipline Act 1957 , the civil offence within the meaning of that section . 327ZAC Powers of the Court of Appeal ( 1 ) on a referral of a prisoner ' s case under section 32zaa , the Court of Appeal may — ( a ) direct the Secretary of State to release the prisoner on licence as soon as be reasonably practicable in all the circumstance include , in particular , the need to make arrangement in connection with any condition that be to be include in the licence , or ( b ) decide that the prisoner should remain confined and direct the Secretary of State accordingly . ( 2 ) in make a decision under subsection ( 1 ) , the Court of Appeal must have regard to whether there be no more than a minimal risk that , be the prisoner no long confine , the prisoner would commit a further offence the commission of which would cause serious harm . ( 2A ) in make a decision under subsection ( 1 ) , the Court of Appeal must consider — ( a ) any statement make by the Parole Board as to the reason for its decision , ( b ) the evidence consider by the Parole Board in reach its decision , ( c ) any representation make to the Parole Board by the Secretary of State , by a victim , or on behalf of the prisoner , ( d ) any transcript make of a Parole Board hearing in respect of the case . ( 3 ) no judge shall sit as a member of the Court of Appeal on the hearing of a reference under this section in respect of a sentence they pass . " ' new clause 16 — Referral of release decision to the Court of Appeal : fix - term prisoner — ' ( 1 ) after section 256azb of the Criminal Justice Act 2003 insert — Referral of release decision to the Court of Appeal 256AZBA Referral of release decision to the Court of Appeal ( 1 ) this section apply where — ( a ) a prisoner be serve a fix - term sentence impose in respect of an offence specify or describe in section 256azbb ( the " relevant sentence " ) , ( b ) the Board be require to make a public protection decision about the prisoner under a relevant provision of this chapter , and ( c ) the public protection decision relate to the relevant sentence . ( 2 ) where the Parole Board have make a decision in a case to which this section apply — ( a ) the Secretary of State may refer the decision to the criminal division of the Court of Appeal , or ( b ) a victim may apply to the Secretary of State to request that the prisoner ' s case be refer to the criminal division of the Court of Appeal . ( 3 ) within [ 30 day ] of an application be make under paragraph ( 2 ) ( b ) , the Secretary of State must — ( a ) exercise the power under subsection ( 2 ) ( a ) and refer the prisoner ' s case to the criminal division of the Court of Appeal , or ( b ) provide to the victim a write statement explain why they have decide not to exercise that power . ( 4 ) this section apply in relation to a prisoner whose sentence be impose before , as well as after , this section come into force . ( 5 ) but nothing in this section affect the duty of the Secretary of State to release a prisoner whose release have be direct by the Parole Board before this section come into force . ( 6 ) in this section — " correspond power of direction " , in relation to a relevant provision , be the power of the Board to direct the Secretary of State to release the prisoner , for the purpose of which the public protection decision be make ( see section 237B ) ; " public protection decision " have the meaning give by section 237a ( 2 ) ; " relevant provision " have the meaning give by section 237B . 256azbb offence for the purpose of Court of Appeal referral ( 1 ) the offence specify or describe in this section ( for the purpose of section 256azba ) be — ( a ) manslaughter ; ( b ) an offence under section 5 of the Domestic Violence , Crime and Victims Act 2004 , where a child have die as a result of the prisoner ' s unlawful act ; ( c ) an offence specify in any of paragraph 41 to 43 of Schedule 18 to the Sentencing Code ( specify terrorism offence other than inchoate offence ) ; ( d ) an offence that be not an inchoate offence and be determined to have a terrorist connection , within the meaning give by section 247A ( 7a ) ; ( e ) an offence under section 1 of the Sexual Offences Act 2003 ( rape ) ; ( f ) an offence under section 5 of that Act ( rape of a child under 13 ) ; ( g ) an offence under section 6 to 51 of that Act ; ( h ) an offence under section 1 of the Sexual Offences ( Scotland ) Act 2009 ( asp 9 ) ( rape ) ; ( i ) an offence under section 18 of that Act ( rape of a young child ) ; ( j ) an offence under section 2 to 11 of that Act against a mentally disorder person , as define by section 17 of that Act ; ( k ) an offence under Part 4 or Part 5 of that Act ; ( l ) an offence under Article 5 of the Sexual Offences ( Northern Ireland ) Order 2008 ( S . I . 2008 / 1769 ( N . I . 2 ) ) ( rape ) ; ( m ) an offence under Article 12 of that order ( rape of a child under 13 ) ; ( n ) an offence under Part 3 or Part 4 of that order ; ( p ) an offence that — ( i ) be abolish , and ( ii ) would have constitute an offence refer to in paragraph ( a ) to ( o ) if commit on or after the date on which it be abolish . ( 2 ) a sentence in respect of a service offence be to be treat for the purpose of section 256azba as if it be a sentence in respect of the corresponding offence . ( 3 ) in subsection ( 2 ) — ( a ) " service offence " mean an offence under — ( i ) section 42 of the Armed Forces Act 2006 , ( ii ) section 70 of the Army Act 1955 or the Air Force Act 1955 , or ( iii ) section 42 of the Naval Discipline Act 1957 ; ( b ) " correspond offence " mean — ( i ) in relation to an offence under section 42 of the Armed Forces Act 2006 , the corresponding offence under the law of England and Wales within the meaning of that section ; ( ii ) in relation to an offence under section 70 of the Army Act 1955 or the Air Force Act 1955 , the corresponding civil offence within the meaning of that Act ; ( iii ) in relation to an offence under section 42 of the Naval Discipline Act 1957 , the civil offence within the meaning of that section . 256azbc Powers of the Court of Appeal ( 1 ) on a referral of a prisoner ' s case under section 256azba , the Court of Appeal may — ( a ) direct the Secretary of State to release the prisoner on licence as soon as be reasonably practicable in all the circumstance include , in particular , the need to make arrangement in connection with any condition that be to be include in the licence , or ( b ) decide that the prisoner should remain confined and direct the Secretary of State accordingly . ( 2 ) in make a decision under subsection ( 1 ) , the Court of Appeal must have regard to whether there be no more than a minimal risk that , be the prisoner no long confine , the prisoner would commit a further offence the commission of which would cause serious harm . ( 3 ) in make a decision under subsection ( 1 ) , the Court of Appeal must consider — ( a ) any statement make by the Parole Board as to the reason for its decision , ( b ) the evidence consider by the Parole Board in reach its decision , ( c ) any representation make to the Parole Board by the Secretary of State , by a victim , or on behalf of the prisoner , ( d ) any transcript make of a Parole Board hearing in respect of the case . ( 4 ) no judge shall sit as a member of the Court of Appeal on the hearing of a reference under this section in respect of a sentence they pass . " ' new clause 17 — monitor compliance — ' ( 1 ) all agency with responsibility under the victim ' code have a duty to monitor and report how relevant service be provide in accordance with the victim ' code . ( 2 ) in accordance with the duty in subsection ( 1 ) , the agency must provide an annual report to the Secretary of State on their assessment of their compliance with the code . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State must make an annual statement to the House of Commons on the delivery of service provide in accordance with the victim ' code . ' this new clause would place a duty on the Secretary of State to make an annual statement on compliance with the victim ' code . new clause 18 — compliance with the code : threshold level — ' ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , by regulation , issue minimum threshold level of compliance with each right of the victim ' code . ( 2 ) if a minimum threshold be breach by an organisation in a particular area , the Secretary of State must commission an inspection of that body with regard to that breach . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State must , as soon as be reasonably practicable , lie before Parliament the report of any such inspection . ' this new clause would require the Secretary of State to set minimum threshold level of compliance with each right of the victim ' code . new clause 19 — non - disclosure of victim ' counselling record ( no . 2 ) — ' ( 1 ) subsection ( 3 ) of this clause apply where — ( a ) in connection with any criminal investigation , access to record of a victim ' s protect confidence in a counselling setting be seek ( whether pre - or post - charge ) , or ( b ) in any criminal proceeding record contain a protect confidence be to be serve as evidence or disclose by the prosecution to the defendant . ( 2 ) in this section — " protect confidence " mean a communication make by a person in confidence to another person when the confidant be act in a professional capacity provide counselling , psychological or mental health service ; " victim " have the same meaning as in section 1 of this Act . ( 3 ) permission for access to , service or disclosure of record contain a protect confidence may only be grant by the court . ( 4 ) the court must direct that access should not be grant , or evidence should not be serve or disclose , if the court find that do so would disclose a protect confidence . ( 5 ) subsection ( 4 ) do not apply if the court find — ( a ) that the information be of substantial probative value , and ( b ) that the public interest in disclosure substantially outweigh that of non - disclosure . ( 6 ) in make a determination under subsection ( 5 ) ( b ) , the court must take into account — ( a ) the need to encourage victim of sexual offence to seek counselling , ( b ) that the effectiveness of counselling be likely to be dependent on the maintenance of the confidentiality of the counselling relationship , ( c ) the public interest in ensure that victim of sexual offence receive effective counselling , ( d ) that the disclosure of the protect confidence be likely to damage or undermine the relationship between the counsellor and the counselled person , ( e ) whether disclosure of the protect confidence be seek on the basis of a discriminatory belief or bias , or ( f ) that the adducing of the evidence be likely to infringe a reasonable expectation of privacy . ' new clause 27 — compensation for victim of the infected blood scandal ( no . 2 ) — ' ( 1 ) in accordance with section 2 ( 3c ) , the Secretary of State must , within three month of the passing of this Act , establish a body to administer the compensation scheme for victim of the infected blood scandal . ( 2 ) the body create under this section must be chair by a judge of High Court or Court of Session with status as sole decision maker . ( 3 ) in exercise its function , the body must — ( a ) have regard to the need of applicant for speed of provision , simplicity or process , accessibility , involvement , proactive support , fairness and efficiency ; ( b ) involve potentially eligible person and their representative amongst those in a small advisory board , and in the review and improvement of the scheme ; ( c ) permit the hearing of applicant in person ; and ( d ) have an independent appeal body which will reconsider decision of the scheme refer to it . ( 4 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation make further provision about the body establish under this section . ( 5 ) for the purpose of this Act , a victim of the infected blood scandal mean any infected or affected person whom the Second Interim Report of the Infected Blood Inquiry , as lay before Parliament on 19 April 2023 , recommend should be admit to a compensation scheme . ( 6 ) this section come into force on the day on which this Act be pass . ' new clause 28 — report on impact on victim of the UK ' s reservation in respect of article 59 of the Istanbul Convention — ' ( 1 ) within six month of the passing of this Act , the Secretary of State must lay before Parliament a report contain an assessment of the impact on victim of the UK ' s reservation in respect of article 59 of the Council of Europe Convention on prevent and combat violence against woman and domestic violence ( " the Istanbul Convention " ) . ( 2 ) the report lay under subsection ( 1 ) must contain — ( a ) an assessment of the impact on victim of domestic abuse , ( b ) an assessment of the impact on the child of such victim , and ( c ) an assessment of the merit of implement the measure necessary for compliance with article 59 of the Istanbul Convention . ' new clause 29 — mandatory training — ' ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must by regulation require certain police officer and employee of the Crown Prosecution Service to receive training in respect of violence against woman and girl . ( 2 ) regulation under subsection ( 1 ) must — ( a ) make provision about the content of mandatory training , include training on the impact of trauma on victim of violence against woman and girl , and ( b ) make provision about the person for whom this training be mandatory . ( 3 ) a statutory instrument contain regulation under this section may not be make unless a draft of the instrument have be lay before and approve by a resolution of each House of Parliament . ' new clause 30 — victim of specify offence : data - sharing for immigration purpose — ' ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must make arrangement for ensure that the personal datum of a victim of a crime as specify in subsection ( 3 ) , that be process for the purpose of that person request or receive support or assistance relate to the crime , be not use for any immigration control purpose without the consent of that person . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State must make arrangement for ensure that the personal datum of a witness to a crime as specify in subsection ( 3 ) , that be process for the purpose of that person give information or evidence to assist the investigation or prosecution of the crime , be not use for any immigration control purpose without the consent of that person . ( 3 ) the crime refer to in subsection ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) be – ( a ) domestic abuse as define by section 1 of the Domestic Abuse Act 2021 , ( b ) an offence under any of section 2 , 2A , 4 or 4A of the Protection from Harassment Act 1997 or section 42a ( 1 ) of the Criminal Justice and Police Act 2001 , ( c ) an offence under any of section 1 , 2 or 4 of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 , ( d ) an offence under Part 1 of the Sexual Offences Act 2003 , or ( e ) such other offence as may be specify in regulation make by the Secretary of State . ( 4 ) paragraph 4 of Schedule 2 to the Data Protection Act 2018 shall not apply to personal datum process for the purpose of subsection ( 1 ) or ( 2 ) . ( 5 ) for the purpose of this section , the Secretary of State must issue guidance to those person mention in subsection ( 10 ) about the effect of subsection ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) . ( 6 ) the Secretary of State may from time to time revise any guidance issue under this section . ( 7 ) before issue or revise guidance under this subsection , the Secretary of State must consult – ( a ) the Domestic Abuse Commissioner , ( b ) the Victims ' Commissioner , ( c ) the Independent Anti - Slavery Commissioner , and ( d ) such other person as the Secretary of State consider appropriate . ( 8 ) subsection ( 7 ) do not apply in relation to any revision of the guidance issue under this section if the Secretary of State consider the propose revision of the guidance be insubstantial . ( 9 ) the Secretary of State must publish – ( a ) any guidance issue under this section , and ( b ) any revision of that guidance . ( 10 ) the person mention in subsection ( 5 ) be — ( a ) person who be victim of or witness to the crime in subsection ( 3 ) , ( b ) person from whom support or assistance may be request or receive by a victim of crime in England and Wales , ( c ) person provide support to , or conduct investigation or prosecution with the support of , witness of crime in England and Wales , ( d ) person exercise any function of the Secretary of State in relation to immigration , asylum or nationality and , ( e ) person exercise any function confer by or by virtue of the Immigration act on an immigration officer . ( 11 ) a person exercise public function to whom guidance issue under this section relate must have regard to it in the exercise of those function . ( 12 ) for the purpose of this section – " consent " mean a freely give , specific , informed and unambiguous indication of the individual ' s wish by which the individual , by a statement , signify agreement to the processing of the personal datum ; " immigration control " mean the exercise of any function of the Secretary of State and of immigration officer under the Immigration act within the meaning of section 61 of the UK Borders Act 2007 ; " support or assistance " include the provision of accommodation , banking service , education , employment , financial or social assistance , healthcare and policing service and any function of a court or prosecute authority ; " victim " , in relation to a crime , mean the particular person who appear to have be affect by the crime , and their dependent , where that dependent be also affect by the crime . ' new clause 31 — Duty to notify school safeguarding lead of domestic abuse incident — ' ( 1 ) the police must notify the designate safeguarding lead or officer of a child ' s school of any incident that meet the criterion in subsection ( 2 ) . ( 2 ) those criterion be that — ( a ) the police have attend an incident of domestic abuse , and ( b ) the child be a child of an adult party involve in the incident . ( 3 ) a notification under this section must occur before the start of the next school day follow the incident . ( 4 ) in this section , " domestic abuse " have the meaning give by section 1 of the Domestic Abuse Act 2021 . ' new clause 32 — Victims ' right in relation to datum — ' ( 1 ) the UK GDPR be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in article 21 ( right to object ) , after paragraph 1 , insert — " ( 1A ) the datum subject shall have the right to object , on ground relate to his or her particular situation , at any time to processing of personal datum concern he or she , or a third party where that party be a child for whom they have parental responsibility , which be base on point ( a ) to ( f ) of Article 6 ( 1 ) , include profiling base on those provision , if exceptional circumstance apply ( 1b ) the exceptional circumstance mention in paragraph 1b be — ( a ) that the processing of the datum be connect to , or reliant upon , conduct which could reasonably be suspect to constitute a criminal offence , or ( b ) that the processing of the datum be connect to , or reliant upon , conduct which could reasonably be consider as be intend to cause harassment , alarm or distress to the datum subject or another live individual . ( 1C ) the Secretary of State may by regulation subject to the affirmative resolution procedure prescribe other exceptional circumstance where the right to object mention in paragraph 1a apply . " ( 3 ) in article 17 ( right to erasure ( " right to be forget " ) ) , after paragraph 1 ( c ) , insert — ( can ) the data subject object to the processing pursuant to article 21 ( 1A ) . " ' this new clause would allow victim of third party harassment to request the deletion of any personal datum which be gather or hold as part of activity which could be consider criminal conduct – prevent third party report from cause ongoing distress to victim . new clause 33 — Commissioner for Victims : enforcement of victim ' code — ' ( 1 ) the Commissioner for Victims ( " the Commissioner " ) may investigate a complaint that a person to whom the code of practice under subsection 2 ( 1 ) of this Act apply have fail to carry out their duty under the victim ' code . ( 2 ) where the Commissioner uphold a complaint under subsection ( 1 ) , the Commissioner may — ( a ) recommend action to rectify the breach of the victim ' code , or ( b ) impose a fine on the person who have fail to comply with the victim ' code . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation make further provision in connection with this section . ' new clause 34 — funding for domestic abuse service : review — ' ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within 3 month of this Act be pass , conduct a review into the level of funding and provision for domestic abuse service . ( 2 ) the review must , in particular , consider — ( a ) counselling and advocacy service , and ( b ) refuge in the UK . ( 3 ) upon completion of the review , the Secretary of State must publish and lie before Parliament a report set out — ( a ) the finding of the review , and ( b ) the action that the Secretary of State propose to take in response to the review . ' new clause 35 — experience of victim of domestic abuse in the criminal justice system : review — ' ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within 3 month of this Act be pass , conduct a review into the experience of victim of domestic abuse in the criminal justice system . ( 2 ) the review must consult , in particular — ( a ) victim of domestic abuse who have be through the criminal justice system , specifically ensure that view be seek from woman with protect characteristic , and ( b ) organisation , both inside and outside of the criminal justice system , who represent victim of domestic abuse . ( 3 ) upon completion of the review , the Secretary of State must publish and lie before Parliament a report set out — ( a ) the finding of the review , and ( b ) the action that the Secretary of State propose to take in response to the review . ' new clause 36 — data collection in relation to child of prisoner — ' the Secretary of State must collect and publish annual datum identify — ( a ) how many prisoner be the primary carer of a child , ( b ) how many child have a primary carer who be a prisoner , and ( c ) the age of those child . ' new clause 38 — free independent legal advocate for rape victim — ' ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must develop proposal for a scheme to give victim of rape access to free , independent legal advocate available in every police force area in England and Wales . ( 2 ) for the purpose of this section — " independent legal advocate for rape victim " mean a person who be a qualified solicitor , with experience work with vulnerable people , who provide appropriate legal advice and representation to individual who be victim of criminal conduct which constitute rape . ' new clause 39 — duty to inform victim and family of the Unduly Lenient Sentencing Scheme — ' ( 1 ) the Criminal Justice Act 1988 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) after section 36 , insert — " 36a duty to inform victim and family of the Unduly Lenient Sentencing Scheme ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must nominate a Government Department ( " relevant body " ) to inform victim and their family of their right under the Unduly Lenient Sentencing Scheme , and such information must include the type of sentence and the time limit for application , and advise that application must be make to the Attorney General . " ' new clause 40 — unduly lenient sentence : time limit — ' ( 1 ) the Criminal Justice Act 1988 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in Schedule 3 , paragraph 1 , at end insert " , subject to paragraph 1a . " " ( 1A ) the time limit of 28 day shall be extend in exceptional circumstance , where the relevant body have fail to inform the victim and family of their right under the Unduly Lenient Sentencing Scheme . " ' new clause 41 — independent legal advice and representation for victim of rape and sexual assault — ' ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must establish a Sexual Violence complainant ' advocate scheme ( " the scheme " ) . ( 2 ) the scheme must provide free legal advice and representation to victim of rape and sexual offence in England and Wales . ( 3 ) the scheme must — ( a ) provide legal advice to victim in relation to request for access to their personal datum ; ( b ) provide victim with advice on their right under the Victims ' right to Review scheme , and assist they with make request under that scheme ; ( c ) provide legal advice to victim in relation to sexual history application under section 41 of the Youth Justice and Criminal Evidence Act 1999 ( d ) provide legal advice to victim in relation to complaint make to justice agency ( e ) provide legal advice to assist victim to negotiate fully inform consent to access to their personal datum ; or ( f ) subject to subsection ( 4 ) , provide legal representation of victim in relation to the police , prosecutor , or court , where that representation be necessary to prevent irrelevant or excessive material be access . ( 4 ) section 3 ( f ) be limit to those circumstance in which a complainant have right of audience , include hearing on disclosure of third - party material where a court choose to invite participation by a complainant under Criminal Procedure Rules 17 . 4 - 17 . 6 ( 5 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation make further provision about the scheme " ' new clause 42 — statement on report of Infected Blood Inquiry — ' ( 1 ) within 25 sit day of the publication of the final report of the Infected Blood Inquiry , the Secretary of State must make an oral statement to the House of Commons respond in full to the recommendation of the report , include — ( a ) how victim of the infected blood scandal will be able to access compensation , and ( b ) what step will be take to establish a body to administer the compensation scheme . ( 2 ) in this section , ' sit day ' mean day on which the House of Commons sit . ' new clause 43 — victim of major incident : registration of death — ' ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must by regulation make provision for a relative to provide information in the connection with the registration of the death of a person who be a victim of a major incident , even if an investigation be conduct under Part 1 of the Coroners and Justice Act 2009 . ( 2 ) regulation under this section must — ( a ) amend form 13 in Schedule 2 of the Registration of Births and Deaths Regulations 1987 as follow — ( i ) add an additional section , entitle " victim of major incident " , to include the name , qualification and usual address of the relative , ( ii ) provide for the signature of the relative to be give under the statement " I certify that the particular give by I above be true to the good of my knowledge and belief " , and ( b ) provide that the relative may provide these detail during the five day period begin with the day on which a registrar complete the form . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation make further provision consequential on this section . ( 4 ) the power to make regulation under subsection ( 3 ) may ( among other thing ) be exercise by modify any provision make by or under an enactment . ' this new clause would enable a relative of a person who have die in a major incident to have their detail include in the registration of the person ' s death . amendment 160 , page 1 , line 7 , at end insert — " ( aa ) witness criminal conduct , ( ab ) have subsequent responsibility for care because of criminal conduct , ( ac ) experience vicarious harm due to criminal conduct . " Amendment 1 , page 1 , line 16 , at end insert — " ( e ) where a person have enter into a non - disclosure agreement that have the effect of prevent that person from speak about behaviour that may be criminal misconduct . " amendment 2 , page 1 , line 16 , at end insert — " ( e ) where the person have experience , or make allegation that they have experience — ( i ) sexual abuse , sexual harassment or sexual misconduct , or ( ii ) bullying or harassment not fall within paragraph ( i ) . " Amendment 5 , page 1 , line 16 , at end insert — " ( e ) where the person have experience adult sexual exploitation . " amendment 7 , page 1 , line 16 , at end insert — " ( e ) where the person be the child of a person pose sexual risk to child . " this amendment would include child of a person pose a sexual risk to child ( that is , paedophile ( include perpetrator of offence online ) , suspect or offender ) as victim . Amendment 27 , page 1 , line 16 , at end insert — " ( e ) where the person be a victim of honour - base abuse ( see section [ meaning of " honour - base abuse " ] ) . " Amendment 28 , page 1 , line 16 , at end insert — " ( e ) where the person have suffer harm as a direct result of criminal conduct in relation to sewage and waste water " Amendment 33 , page 1 , line 16 , at end insert — " ( e ) where the person have experience anti - social behaviour , as define by section 2 of the Anti - social Behaviour Act 2014 , and the condition necessary for an ASB case review under section 104 of that Act have be meet . " this amendment would include victim of anti - social behaviour in the definition of a victim . amendment 144 , page 1 , line 16 , at end insert — " ( e ) where the person be a victim of the infected blood scandal , as define in section ( compensation for victim of the infected blood scandal ) ( 5 ) of this Act . " Amendment 147 , page 1 , line 16 , at end insert — " ( e ) where the person have suffer significant harm as a result of , and know or know of any other victim of , criminal conduct . " this amendment would include those who suffer from vicarious trauma after a crime in the scope of the Victims Code . Amendment 157 , page 1 , line 16 , at end insert — " ( e ) where the person have experience child criminal exploitation ; " . this amendment would include victim of child criminal exploitation in the definition of a victim . amendment 148 , page 1 , line 16 , at end insert — " ( 3A ) for the purpose of this section , it do not matter whether the criminal conduct happen within the United Kingdom or elsewhere . " this amendment would explicitly require that victim do not miss out on support as a result of the crime affect they be carry out outside the UK . government amendment 34 . amendment 8 , page 2 , line 5 , after " that " insert — " no report of the conduct have be make to a criminal justice body and that " . this amendment aim to ensure that a person could meet the definition of a victim without need to make a report to a criminal justice body . amendment 6 , page 2 , line 6 , at end insert — " ( c ) " adult sexual exploitation " mean conduct by which a person manipulate , deceive , coerce or control another person to undertake sexual activity . " this amendment create a statutory definition of adult sexual exploitation . amendment 158 , page 2 , line 6 , at end insert — " ( c ) " child criminal exploitation " mean conduct by which a person manipulate , deceive , coerce or control a person under 18 to undertake activity which constitute a criminal offence ; " . this amendment provide a definition for the term " child criminal exploitation " . amendment 9 , in clause 2 , page 2 , line 18 , leave out paragraph ( a ) and insert — " ( a ) should be provide with information from all state agency with responsibility under the victim ' code , include the NHS , to help they understand the criminal justice process and beyond , include grant of leave or discharge . " this amendment would extend the principle that victim should be give information about the criminal justice process to explicitly include the NHS , in order to bring mental health tribunal decision in line with the rest of the criminal justice system . amendment 10 , page 2 , line 19 , at end insert — " in a language or format that they can understand ; " . amendment 11 , page 2 , line 23 , at end insert — " and should be provide with appropriate support to communicate these view ; " . amendment 12 , page 2 , line 23 , at end insert — " and with all state agency with responsibility under the victim ' code , include hmct and the NHS when consider leave or discharge ; " . this amendment seek to ensure that the NHS and HM Courts and Tribunals Service be include when victim have a right to be hear in the justice process , bring mental health tribunal decision in line with the rest of the criminal justice system . amendment 3 , page 2 , line 25 , at end insert — " ( 3A ) the victim ' code must make provision in relation to people who have experience , or make allegation that they have experience — ( a ) sexual abuse , sexual harassment or sexual misconduct , or ( b ) bullying or harassment not fall within paragraph ( a ) . ( 3b ) provision under subsection ( 3A ) must include — ( a ) provision relate to the enforcement of non - disclosure agreement sign by such victim , and ( b ) provision about legal advice and other support for such victim in case where they be ask to sign , or have sign , a non - disclosure agreement . ( 3c ) in this section — " non - disclosure agreement " mean an agreement which purport to any extent to preclude a victim from — ( a ) publish information about a relevant complaint , or ( b ) disclose information about the relevant complaint to any one or more other person ; " misconduct " mean — ( a ) sexual abuse , sexual harassment or sexual misconduct , and ( b ) bullying or harassment not fall within paragraph ( a ) ; " relevant complaint " mean a complaint relate to misconduct or allege misconduct by any person . " this amendment would require the victim ' code to include specific provision for people who have experience , or make allegation that they have experience , sexual abuse , sexual harassment or sexual misconduct , or other bullying or harassment . amendment 13 , page 2 , line 25 at end insert — " ( 3A ) in accordance with subsection ( 3 ) ( e ) , the victim ' code must include provision require that — ( a ) all victim of child sexual abuse , include online - base abuse , be entitle to compensation under the Criminal Injuries Compensation Scheme , ( b ) victim with unspent conviction , whose offence be link to the circumstance of their sexual abuse as a child , be entitle to compensation under the Criminal Injuries Compensation Scheme , and ( c ) victim of child sexual abuse may apply for compensation under the Criminal Injuries Compensation Scheme within a 7 year period of whichever of these two date be the later — ( i ) the date the offence be report to the police , or ( ii ) if the offence be report whilst the victim be a child , the date the victim turn 18 . " this amendment would provide that all victim of child sexual abuse ( CSA ) , include online , be entitle to compensation under the CICS and that those with unspent conviction directly link to the circumstance of their abuse can access compensation . it would also extend the period by which victim can apply . amendment 14 , page 2 , line 25 , at end insert — " ( 3A ) the victim ' code must — ( a ) require criminal justice body to take all reasonable step to identify and record any change of name by a perpetrator , and ( b ) require criminal justice body to inform a relevant victim when a perpetrator change their name . ( 3b ) for the purpose of subsection ( 3A ) — " perpetrator " mean a person whose conduct or allege conduct result in another person be a victim as define by section 1 of this Act ; " relevant victim " mean a person who become a victim as a result of the perpetrator ' s conduct . " this amendment would require criminal justice body to monitor name change of perpetrator and inform victim of any name change . amendment 15 , page 2 , line 25 at end insert — " ( 3A ) the victim ' code must make provision about pre - trial therapy for victim , include — ( a ) a requirement that all criminal justice agency inform victim of their right to pre - trial therapy , and ( b ) a requirement that the Crown Prosecution Service annually review their pre - trial therapy guidance and its implementation . " this amendment would include in the victim ' code a requirement to inform all victim of their right to access pre - trial therapy , and require the CPS to annually review the implementation of pre - trial therapy guidance . amendment 29 , page 2 , line 25 , at end insert — " ( 3A ) the victim ' code must make provision about support for victim of burglary . ( 3b ) provision under subsection ( 3A ) must include a requirement that a victim of a burglary must be visit by a police officer . " amendment 142 , page 2 , line 25 , at end insert — " ( 3A ) the victim ' code must include provision require that all victim of the infected blood scandal , as define in section ( compensation for victim of the infected blood scandal ) ( 5 ) of this Act , be entitle to compensation . ( 3b ) subject to subsection ( 3c ) , compensation must be administer by a body establish for that purpose by the Secretary of State under section ( compensation for victim of the infected blood scandal ) . ( 3c ) the Secretary of State must ensure that an interim compensation payment of £ 100 , 000 be make within one month of the passing of this Act in the following circumstance — ( a ) where an infected victim die as a child or die as an adult without a partner or child , the compensation payment should be make to their bereaved parent ( split equally if separate ) ; ( b ) where an infected victim have die and there be no bereaved partner but there be a bereaved child or child ( include any adopt child ) , the compensation payment should be pay to the child or child ( split equally ) ; and ( c ) where an infected victim have die and there be no bereaved partner , child nor parent but there be a bereaved full sibling or sibling , the compensation payment should be pay to the sibling or sibling ( split equally ) . " amendment 143 , page 2 , line 25 , at end insert — " ( 3A ) within one month of the passing of this Act , the victim ' code must make specific provision for a bespoke psychological service in England for victim of the infected blood scandal , as define in section ( compensation for victim of the infected blood scandal ) ( 5 ) of this Act . " amendment 146 , page 2 , line 25 , at end insert — " ( 3A ) the victim ' code must include provision about therapy and other support service for victim who be child . ( 3b ) provision under subsection ( 3A ) must include — ( a ) a requirement that support must be provide to such victim within one month of a request for support be make , ( b ) provision relate to the type of support to which such victim be entitle , ( c ) minimum standard for the quality of support to which such victim be entitle , ( d ) a requirement that support should be available to such victim — ( i ) throughout the criminal justice process , and ( ii ) after that process have be complete . " Amendment 159 , page 2 , line 25 , at end insert — " ( 3A ) the victim ' code must provide that , where a victim have sign a non - disclosure agreement relate to criminal conduct to which they have be subject , nothing in that agreement may prevent they from access service to which they be entitle under the code . " Amendment 26 , page 2 , line 34 , at end insert — " ( 5A ) regulation under subsection ( 4 ) must make provision for a person to be able to obtain free of charge , on request , a transcript of a trial in which the person be involve as a victim . " Amendment 156 , in clause 6 , page 4 , line 38 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) the Secretary of State must publish and implement , in consultation with the Commissioner for Victims and witness , a strategy for provide training on the impact of crime on victim and on victim ' right for relevant staff of the follow organisation — ( a ) the Police ( b ) the Crown Prosecution Service ; ( c ) probation service ; ( d ) the Foreign and Commonwealth Office ; ( e ) health and social service ; ( f ) victim support service ( g ) maintain and independent school and college of further education ; and ( h ) such other body as the Secretary of State deem appropriate . ( 1b ) the Secretary of State must review and update the strategy publish under subsection ( 1A ) every three year . " government amendment 35 to 46 . amendment 4 , in clause 12 , page 10 , line 22 , at end insert " ( d ) stalk . " Amendment 16 , page 10 , line 22 , at end insert " ( d ) modern slavery . " this amendment would extend the duty to collaborate to include victim support service for victim of modern slavery . government amendment 47 . amendment 149 , page 10 , line 40 , at end insert — " ( 10 ) for the purpose of this section , the relevant authority for a police area , as define in subsection ( 2 ) , must together conduct a joint strategic need assessment . ( 11 ) the Secretary of State must provide a National Statement every three year on support for victim of domestic abuse and sexual violence , include — ( a ) volume of provision at the time at which the National Statement be provide , ( b ) level of need , include a breakdown of demographic , include victim with protect characteristic , and ( c ) level of investment in service . ( 12 ) in prepare a National Statement under subsection ( 11 ) , the Secretary of State must have regard to the joint strategic need assessment prepare under subsection 10 . ( 13 ) the Secretary of State must ensure that sufficient funding be provide annually to ensure that the relevant authority , as define in subsection ( 2 ) , be able to commission relevant victim support service , as define in subsection ( 4 ) . ( 14 ) the Secretary of State must provide sufficient funding to enable ' by and for ' service to deliver service to , and to increase the capacity for deliver service to , victim of domestic abuse and sexual violence . ( 15 ) in this section , " ' by and for ' service " mean service which — ( a ) be design for and deliver by those that share the same protect characteristic ( s ) as the victim they be intend to serve , and ( b ) provide service to black and minority ethnic , LGBT + , deaf or disabled victim and survivor of domestic abuse . ( 16 ) the Secretary of State must issue guidance in relation to this section about — ( a ) the production of Joint Strategic Needs Assessments by the relevant authority , ( b ) the identification of victim ' need and of gap in provision by the National Statement , ( c ) the principle which must be follow in the application and allocation of funding , ( d ) the condition under which " by and for " organisation that do not have specialism in domestic abuse service provision may be eligible to apply for funding . ( 17 ) in prepare guidance under subsection ( 16 ) , the Secretary of State must consult — ( a ) " by and for " organisation work with victim of domestic abuse and of violence against woman and girl , ( b ) the Domestic Abuse Commissioner , ( c ) the Commissioner for Victims , ( d ) the Children ' s Commissioner . " government amendment 48 to 52 . amendment 155 , in clause 15 , page 12 , line 3 , leave out " Secretary of State " and insert " responsible authority " . amendment 17 , page 12 , line 5 , at end insert " ( c ) independent stalk advocate . " Amendment 154 , page 12 , line 5 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) for the purpose of this section , the responsible authority be — ( a ) in England , the Secretary of State ; and ( b ) in Wales , the Welsh Ministers . " Amendment 19 , page 12 , line 5 , at end insert — " ( c ) any other specialist community - base service relevant to the criminal conduct . " Amendment 18 , page 12 , line 12 , at end insert — " ( c ) " independent stalk advocate " mean a person who provide a relevant service to individual who be victim of criminal conduct which constitute stalk . " this amendment ensure that the Secretary of State must also provide guidance around stalk advocate , in addition to guidance about isva and idva . amendment 20 , page 12 , line 12 , at end insert — " ( c ) specialist community - base service " mean a person who provide a relevant service to individual base on a protect characteristic under the Equality Act 2010 or the specific nature of the crime face by the victim . " Amendment 21 , page 12 , line 13 , leave out " or ( b ) " and insert " , ( b ) or ( c ) " . amendment 22 , page 12 , line 16 , leave out subsection ( 4 ) and insert — " ( 4 ) guidance under this section about service provider under subsection ( 1 ) must include provision about — ( a ) the role of such provider ; ( b ) the service they provide to — ( i ) victim , include ( where relevant ) victim who be child or have other protect characteristic , or ( ii ) person who be not victim , where that service be provide in connection with a service provide to a victim ; ( c ) how such provider and other person who have function relate to victim , or any aspect of the criminal justice system , should work together ; ( d ) appropriate training and qualification for such provider . " Government amendment 53 . amendment 23 , page 12 , line 28 , leave out from begin to " must " and insert — " the service provider list in subsection ( 1 ) " . amendment 24 , in clause 22 , page 18 , line 26 , at end insert — " ( d ) be satisfied that the victim have be inform of their right in relation to the request . " government amendment 54 to 56 . Amendment 25 , page 20 , line 23 , at end insert — " ( d ) include a full statement of the victim ' s right in relation to the request . " Government amendment 57 . amendment 145 , page 22 , line 21 , at end insert — " 44F Requirements for training in respect of victim information request ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must by regulation require certain person to receive training in respect of victim information request . ( 2 ) regulation under subsection ( 1 ) must — ( a ) require authorise person to undertake training relate to the making of victim information request , include on the meaning of " reasonable line of enquiry " , ( b ) require certain employee of the Crown Prosecution Service to undertake training in respect of victim information request , include training in the appropriate use of material obtain through such a request , ( c ) require person who provide service to victim and who may receive victim information request to undertake training in relation to those request , ( d ) make provision about the content and delivery of the training require . ( 3 ) a statutory instrument contain regulation under this section may not be make unless a draft of the instrument have be lay before and approve by a resolution of each House of Parliament . " government amendment 58 to 99 , 150 and 100 . amendment 152 , page 35 , line 28 , leave out Clause 36 . government amendment 101 to 112 . amendment 153 , page 38 , line 10 , leave out Clause 37 . government amendment 113 to 135 , and 151 . government motion to transfer Clause 51 . government amendment 136 to 141 . there be a lot of pressure on speaker for this debate , and I would be grateful if people could be conscious of that , particularly on the front Benches . I be unlikely to impose a time limit from the start , but it would be helpful if those on the Front Benches also give some consideration to that . it be a privilege to open this debate and bring the Bill to the House for Report . this important Bill have be long call for by member across the House , and in progress it we be deliver on our manifesto . its central mission , and indeed that of this government , be to ensure that victim be not just spectator in a criminal justice system , but be treat as participant in it . victim tell we that they want to be treat fairly , properly , and with dignity . they want clear , timely , accurate information , and the opportunity and help to make their voice hear . the Bill aim to do just that . it will amplify victim ' voice , ensure that they get the high - quality support they deserve , and make service more join up well to support they . by put the overarching principle of the victim code on a statutory footing , we will send a clear signal about the service that victim can expect . we will place a new duty on criminal justice agency to promote awareness of the code so that victim be well informed . the Bill will also create an independent public advocate to speak up for those involve in major incident such as the Grenfell or Hillsborough tragedy . it will deliver further safeguard to the parole system to protect the public . those be critical reform , and in the spirit in which we conduct Committee and Second Reading , I take this opportunity to thank the opposition and all member for their constructive engagement . although there may be area on which we disagree , in some area we be able to work constructively together . I particularly wish put on record my gratitude to the hon . member for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) for her determination and engagement with a variety of amendment and issue , and for the depth of that engagement . even where we be not able to agree , I be grateful for the tone and manner in which the debate have be conduct thus far . the Government be fond of say that they be get on with the people ' s priority , however much opinion poll may suggest the opposite . I agree entirely that all party believe that the Bill be need , and all party want to get it on to the statute book . do the Minister share my concern that the sheer weight of amendment propose , and the widespread group of people who be say that a number of people be be miss by this glorious once - in - a - Parliament opportunity , mean that the Government should be much more ambitious about ensure that more victim get the support they need ? it will not surprise the hon . Gentleman to know that I do not share his characterisation of the Bill . we have seek to draw the definition of those entitle to support under the victim code as widely as possible , keep it to those who be victim of crime , because that be the nature of the Bill , but not be specific in list a range of different group or category of victim . that be precisely because we want the Bill to be inclusive , rather than inadvertently be too prescriptive and leave people out , thereby exclude they from service . we have try to be as broad base as possible in our definition and approach . to return to that core definition , this be about victim of crime and of criminal act . to conclude my comment about the tone of the debate , I be grateful to everyone , not just right hon . and hon . member who have engage with the Bill , but stakeholder across the criminal justice system , include many charity , campaigner and other . again , although we may not have always reach the same conclusion , the level of their engagement , and its tone , have be phenomenal and much appreciated , and I think it make for a well bill . indeed , some victim have bravely share their experience . it be not easy for someone to share their experience of crime with anyone they do not know , particularly in the context of a much debate Bill , so again , I be grateful to each and every one of they . the number of amendment table — that be the point make by the hon . member for Chesterfield ( Mr Perkins ) — and the amount of interest that the Bill ' s provision have generate , demonstrate how important it be . it be encouraging to see the number of right hon . and hon . member who be in the Chamber for the Report stage , which I think speak well of the House in that respect . it be , of course , vital that we deliver for victim , and for that reason , follow point raise by hon . member and other stakeholder , the Government will be table a number of amendment to strengthen the Bill far , to ensure that it deliver what we want it to , as well as reflect the listening that we have do during its passage . part 1 deal with victim of criminal conduct . we will bring forward a legislative requirement for those under the duty to collaborate to carry out a joint assessment of the need of victim when prepare their joint commissioning strategy for victim support service . that will require local commissioner to work together to assess the need of victim in their local police area , the service that be available , and whether and how victim ' need be be meet . there will be an explicit requirement to have regard to the particular need of certain victim such as child . that be raise in Committee , and I be particularly grateful to the Domestic Abuse Commissioner and her office , who have continue to raise the importance of joint need assessment to strengthen the duty to collaborate . I be pleased to accept her recommendation and proposal , and to table the relevant amendment . we will clarify the drafting of the Bill so that it clearly state and be understand that a crime do not need to have be report for an individual to be include within the definition of " victim " . that be always our intent , but concern be raise by stakeholder and parliamentarian that that be not explicit or clear enough , which be why we have table our new clause . victim ’ view be vital if we be to ensure that support service meet their need . we listen to feedback in Committee on how valuable such insight can be , and our amendment to clause 13 would place a requirement on local commissioner who be under the duty to collaborate to make reasonable effort to obtain the view of victim when prepare their commission strategy . there be also instance where seek a view from the Victims ' Commissioner on those strategy will be useful , give their expertise and insight . however , we should also be conscious that that be not always the most appropriate use of the Victims ' Commissioner ' s office , and may not be necessary in every case . the amendment clarify that that will not be a requirement , but it be possible for such engagement to take place . in Committee , the hon . member for Birmingham , Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) raise concern about support for those who be bereave by suicide where the cause be domestic abuse . I see she in her place on the Back Bench . I very much enjoy debate with she when she be on the Front Bench , and I suspect those debate will continue from her new seat . the content may be the same , it be just the seat that be different , and I welcome she back to the Back Benches and look forward to engage with she far . I agree it be right that suicide be also recognise as fatality follow domestic abuse . for that reason , new clause 20 will change the name of domestic homicide review and the circumstance in which they can be carry out . domestic homicide review be multiagency review that seek to identify and implement lesson learn from death that have , or appear to have result from domestic abuse . we will rename those " domestic abuse relate death review " , well to reflect the range of death that fall within the scope of a review . that name change will emphasise that all death link to domestic abuse should be treat as seriously as a domestic homicide . I also highlight the specialist support that be available for those bereave under such circumstance . it may not go as far as the hon . Lady would wish , but I hope she will see it as another step forward . we be committed to develop the evidence base and intervention for suicide that follow domestic abuse , and we will also update current legislation for such review , to ensure that a domestic abuse relate review be consider when a death have or appear to have result from domestic abuse , as define by the Domestic Abuse Act 2021 . government new clause 37 concern Jade ' s law . in October this year , the Lord Chancellor announce that the Government would suspend parental right from parent who murder their partner or ex - partner with whom they share child , and the new clause will give effect to that pledge . it will provide for the suspension of parental responsibility in the tragic situation where one partner have be convict of kill a partner or ex - partner . the new clause will allow the family court to review the suspension , which will be facilitate by place a new duty on the local authority to rapidly initiate and bring such proceeding when there be likely to be no one else hold parental responsibility for a child . I take this opportunity to offer my most sincere condolence to all family deal with these tragic circumstance , include the family of Jade Ward , who lose their daughter , mother and friend in such a horrific way . their tireless campaign , along with that of the right hon . member for Alyn and Deeside ( Mark Tami ) , have lead to and help shape this amendment . it be important that where we make these change , we recognise those in this House — from whichever side of the Chamber they come — who have put in the work to achieve they , and I do that now . our amendment will provide that where a parent be convict of the murder or voluntary manslaughter of their co - parent , the Crown court will make a prohibit step order . that will prevent that parent from exercise their parental responsibility in respect of any child they share at the point of sentencing . we must ensure that in any decision making , the family court consider the good interest of any child involve and the impact it may have on they . the convict parent may also make representation . the family court will decide whether the order should remain . there be some case where an immediate suspension of parental responsibility by the Crown court would not be appropriate . we will therefore include provision for the Crown court not to suspend parental responsibility where it conclude that it would not be in the interest of justice . this important amendment will give a clear route to help protect family from additional trauma in their dark moment . before move on to part 2 , I will address a number of other concern that have be raise by member and table as amendment to part 1 . I will not pre - empt what may be say by those member speak to or move those amendment — I wish to hear what they have to say — but I thank they for engage with I over the summer on their concern . after careful reflection , there be a number of amendment that we have not bring forward or have seek to address through non - legislative mean . some of they seek to expand the definition of a victim or expand support service to reference specific crime type . although I understand the rationale for that , as I mention to the hon . member for Chesterfield , and the positive impact on victim that recognise a specific crime in legislation can have , on careful consideration I remain of the view that it be right that the definition of victim in this Bill and for support service remain purposely broad and high - level , ensure that it capture every victim of crime . however , I recognise in particular the call make for non - criminal antisocial behaviour to be reference in this Bill . I also recognise , as I suspect do every Member of this House , the impact that persistent antisocial behaviour that do not reach a criminal threshold can have on individual and whole community . while we remain of the view that this be not the right bill for these measure , I reassure the House that the Government be commit to support this cohort . for that reason , the Criminal Justice Bill — it be currently before the House , with its second Reading so ably conclude by my hon . friend the Member for Newbury ( Laura Farris ) — contain provision relate to tackle all antisocial behaviour , and we therefore consider it the most appropriate vehicle for any legislative change and for this debate . it will be supplement by a suite of non - legislative measure . the Home Office , as the lead Department , recently relaunche its antisocial behaviour case review , formerly know as the community trigger , and raise awareness of the tool throughout ASB Awareness week 2023 . additionally , the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities be work on a one - stop shop reporting system for ASB , which will ensure that victim of ASB have easy and flexible way of report antisocial behaviour and will receive an update on what have happen as a result . it be also important to remember that a large amount of antisocial behaviour be in fact criminal . while it may not be categorise as antisocial behaviour , the individual offence that be criminal often apply to many of these case . the Minister be aware of the debate we have around child criminal exploitation . do he believe that that part of the Criminal Justice Bill could cover that definition ? the point that the hon . Lady raise do not directly relate to antisocial behaviour , because often what she be talk about be criminal in many way . as I set out in Committee , we believe that where ASB be criminal , it would already be capture under this legislation . I suspect that she may develop that point in her remark later . another area that have be raise , which my right hon . friend the Member for Basingstoke ( Dame Maria Miller ) will speak to , be non - disclosure agreement and how they may prevent victim from be able to seek the support they need . I particularly thank she for her constructive engagement on this important topic . I also thank the hon . member for Oxford West and Abingdon ( Layla Moran ) , although she be not her place . I recognise that non - disclosure agreement be misuse if they prevent someone from speak about what they have experience , whether it be criminality or equivalent . while this government recognise that nda , also know as confidentiality clause , can and do serve a valid purpose to protect commercially sensitive information and deliver finality , they should never be use to stop victim of crime get the support they need . I also note change in this respect in high education , if memory serve . I reassure the hon . Lady and my right hon . friend that we continue to work closely with the Department for Business and Trade , which hold overall policy responsibility for nda , to carefully consider how good to address the issue they have raise , include , where appropriate , through legislative option as this legislation progress . I will touch on some of the concern raise by member that do not require legislation , which we will address by bring forward non - legislative measure . on code compliance , we will set out a non - legislative notification process that show clear consequence for non - compliance in guidance . we will publish more detail on that shortly . we will also make update to the victim code , include add further information on how victim can access pre - trial therapy and get more timely information about , for example , restorative justice and how victim of crime overseas can access support . as chair of the all - party parliamentary group on restorative justice , I be grateful to the Minister for give way . I appreciate that he have say that he do not want to use this Bill as a vehicle to take through legislative change to access to RJ service , but could he set out in a bit more detail the non - legislative measure that he be plan to bring in to help improve access to restorative justice service for victim ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for his engagement on this issue . thank to his intervention and those of campaigner , and his tireless work to ensure that victim be give the right opportunity to participate in restorative justice , I be pleased today , at the Dispatch Box , to commit to the follow change . I will ensure that our new commission guidance for police and crime commissioner due to be publish next year will include specific information on restorative justice service so that those responsible for funding service understand these service when consider how good to address local need . I will also consult on a new entitlement in the victim code for victim to be give information about restorative justice service at the point of sentence , rather than the point of reporting , which I appreciate may not be the right time for consideration by either the victim or offender . I hope that those additional measure will improve awareness and provision of restorative justice , which I recognise can be extremely valuable for victim and offender in appropriate case . I be grateful to my hon . friend for his work in drive forward this change . on the issue of pre - trial therapy , will the Minister be take on board the recommendation from the Bluestar Project , which have be work to ensure that the victim code be up to date and that pre - trial therapy be readily accessible to all survivor of child sexual abuse ? in respect of pre - trial therapy , and in addition to what I say , we will be bring forward a revise victim code and consult on the detail of it . I be happy to look into the specific of what she propose , but I do not want to pre - judge that consultation . I appreciate that on some occasion people may think that the consultation be pre - determined , but I want this to be genuine engagement and consultation . I be happy to read anything that she want to send I , as always . I also put on record my thank to the hon . member for Richmond Park ( Sarah Olney ) for raise the important issue of court transcript . I recognise the cost challenge pose by transcription of every aspect of a case , and the full detail of the case and all its proceeding . what I be happy to announce today be that , from next spring , we will run a one - year trial pilot that will enable victim of rape and other serious sexual offence to request Crown court sentencing remark , which contain a summary of the case and the point that have be make , free of charge . we believe that this approach strike the right balance between support victim of these horrific crime and provide something that be affordable and achievable , and I be grateful to the hon . Lady for her work on this issue . I thank the hon . member for Westmorland and Lonsdale ( Tim Farron ) for his amendment and for raise the issue of criminal conduct relate to sewage and wastewater . like every Member of the House , I have every sympathy with those who be affect by these offence , and I have make it clear that individual who have be harm or impact by these offence can access support service where the issue for which they be seek support fit their eligibility . I will say no more than that at the moment , because I want to hear what he say when he speak to his amendment . I will seek to address they in more detail in my winding - up speech , if that be acceptable to he , because I want to hear what he have to say . I turn now to part 2 of the Bill , " victim of Major Incidents , " on which the Government will table a number of amendment relate to the Independent Public Advocate . before turn to those amendment , I wish to put on the record my thank for the time and dedication of Bishop James Jones , my right hon . friend the Member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) , the right hon . Lord Wills and , of course , the right hon . member for Garston and Halewood ( Maria Eagle ) , who be in her place and who have be phenomenally pragmatic throughout the process . while push for what she believe to be the right outcome , she have engage constructively and pragmatically to try to make improvement , and I be very grateful for the way she have do that . in what I be about to say , she will see some of the fruit of what she have do in that space . we have engage with victim directly , we have hear from they about what they most need after a major incident , and we have seek to listen . first , we will establish a permanent Independent Public Advocate for victim of major incident , who be refer to in the Bill as the standing advocate . this stand advocate will advise the Secretary of State on the interest of victim of major incident and their treatment by public authority in response to those major incident . a major incident will still be declare by the Secretary of State , and I appreciate that some have call for the IPA to be self - deploying . however , we do not believe that would necessarily be the most appropriate or sustainable approach . the Secretary of State be accountable to Parliament , be responsible for spend public money , and can be challenge on their decision in the court . secondly , our amendment will allow the standing advocate to advise relevant secretary of State on the appropriate Government review mechanism follow a major incident . these could include a statutory inquiry or a non - statutory panel model , such as the Hillsborough independent model . such advice can also cover the scope of any review , and the advocate will make representation for the question to which victim want answer . crucially , this advice will be inform by the view and need of victim themselves , and it will place their voice at the heart of the process . continue with the IPA , Government amendment 76 to 82 will introduce significant change to the advocate ' s report function and ability . they will place a duty on the standing advocate to report annually , and confer a discretion on an advocate to report on their own initiative , once appoint , in respect of a major incident . the amendment also make provision for the publication and laying of report before Parliament . the amendment will also clarify the ground on which the Secretary of State can omit material from report . I be aware that the ability of the Secretary of State to omit material from a report be a cause of concern for some , and I particularly appreciate this give the context of the IPA ' s establishment . for the avoidance of doubt , we have carefully consider the feedback and have bring forward measure to be more explicit about when a Secretary of State may omit material , and to be more specific than something simply be in the " public interest " . we have use the Inquiries Act 2005 as our touchstone . the ability to omit material in certain circumstance be vital to ensure that sensitive material , such as those relate to national security , be protect . amendment 64 will ensure that a lead advocate be appoint if more than one advocate be appoint for the same major incident , and I have reflect on the very helpful and constructive feedback from Lord Wills about the importance of have a clear structure in the Bill . amendment 84 to 86 allow for the disclosure of information by an advocate , where appropriate , to any person exercise function of a public nature , or by a person exercise function of a public nature to an advocate , subject to the Data Protection Act 2018 . this two - way flow of information be crucial to ensure that advocate be able to support victim properly . I want to make it clear that that do not provide the advocate with any data - compelling power . we expect strong co - operation between public authority and the advocate , and an advocate can report to the Secretary of State if they believe there have be a lack of co - operation . I appreciate that the right hon . member for Garston and Halewood may try to nudge I to go a little far , but I note that the Hillsborough independent panel , which be rightly credit with secure disclosure of information that show that fan be not responsible for the disaster , likewise do not have those datum - compelling power . the final change that the amendment make be to remove the current restriction in the Bill whereby the advocate could share personal datum only with the consent of the data subject . by remove that , the advocate now have great freedom and can rely on a wide range of legal basis to process personal datum , as outline in data protection legislation . I want to acknowledge the important issue raise by the Manchester Arena family and the hon . member for — [ hon . member : " South Shields . " ] I should have know that , because we have meet on a number of occasion , although we may have call each other by our first name on those occasion . I be grateful to the hon . member for South Shields ( Mrs Lewell - Buck ) and those family for their tireless campaign . in respect of have a role for the bereaved in the registration of their love one ' s death follow an inquest , I will say a little more on this in my closing remark , once the hon . Lady have have an opportunity to speak to her amendment in the course of this debate , but I want to reassure the House that I be sympathetic and understand what sit behind what the hon . Lady be campaign for and seek to do . I turn to the final part of the Bill , part 3 . the measure in respect of parole reform be design to protect the public and maintain confidence in the parole system by enable the Secretary of State to intervene in the release of the most serious offender . the first duty of any Government be to protect the public , and although the Parole Board have a very good record of assess risk , this power will give the public additional confidence that when it come to the release of those who have commit the gravest of crime , there be an extra safeguard to ensure that prisoner be release only when it be safe to do so and that dangerous offender remain behind bar . during the passage of the Bill , I have hear support for that important principle , but I have also hear concern from parliamentary colleague and other stakeholder about how the propose reform will be implement , and from victim ' representative about the potential for unnecessary delay in the process . I have therefore table amendment that will streamline the process to ensure that case be deal with as quickly and efficiently as possible , while still guarantee that the Secretary of State retain a power to intervene on behalf of the public whenever necessary to do so . the amendment mean that instead of Ministers be require to carry out the full assessment as to whether a prisoner meet the release test , which will be an onerous process require a full review of hundred of page of evidence , only for a prisoner to almost certainly challenge that decision in court , Ministers will now be able to send a case directly to a superior court for a judicial decision . in most case , it will be the upper tribunal . we be also make it clear that the Secretary of State will refer case that particularly affect public confidence , and where they believe that the court may reach different decision from those of the board . the amendment will make the exercising of the power quick and more cost - effective , remove the need to create a shadow Parole Board within the Ministry of Justice and provide swifter certainty for victim and the public . we be also propose two further minor change to the measure . clause 36 enable the Parole Board to refer case to the Secretary of State for a decision where it be unable to reach a decision itself . we have listen carefully to suggestion that this provision may not be require , as it be not easy to envisage the circumstance in which it might apply . we have listen and will remove the clause from the Bill . secondly , there be a small number of parole case — usually those where the index offence be terrorism — that involve the consideration of sensitive material relate to national security or closed material . it be usual for legal matter involve closed material to be hear in the High Court , so we be amend the Bill to enable the Secretary of State to refer any such specific parole case , which we would expect to be few in number , to that court rather than the upper tribunal . I hope that the change will be well receive and demonstrate our commitment to ensure swifter outcome for victim . will the Minister give way ? I will take a brief intervention . then I will try to conclude , because I be conscious that many member wish to speak . I thank the Minister . on many occasion , mp be ask to refer case for reconsideration . the Minister have indicate that the appeal board may do that . can mps also refer prisoner to be reconsider for long sentence or , indeed , for not get out at all ? I be grateful to the hon . Gentleman . the power in the clause rest with the Secretary of State , act in his capacity as Lord Chancellor and Secretary of State . of course , member of Parliament can put their representation to the Secretary of State , but the referral procedure to the upper tribunal will sit with the Secretary of State , not with individual member of this House . we be also propose amendment to change the period at which those on imprisonment for public protection sentence qualify for their licence to be consider for termination . the Justice Committee publish its report on IPP sentence in September 2022 , and I thank it for its valuable insight . one of its recommendation be to reduce the qualifying period at which an IPP prisoner in the community be refer to the Parole Board for consideration of licence termination from 10 year to five year . I be pleased to say that , on reflection , Government new clause 26 will reduce the period from 10 year to three year , which we believe strike an appropriate balance . it will also introduce a provision whereby , for IPP offender who have reach the three - year qualifying period and the Parole Board have not already direct that the licence be terminate , the Secretary of State must direct that the IPP licence cease to have effect after a further two year of continuous good behaviour in the community , which be define as not be recall to prison in that time . secondly , the new clause will remove clause 33 ( 5 ) from the Bill in order to decouple the test apply by the Parole Board when consider whether to terminate an IPP licence from other Parole Board decision in clause 33 , such as whether to release a prisoner from prison . the test be replace by that introduce in clause 47 ( 2 ) ( c ) , set out a clear presumption for termination of the licence require the Parole Board to direct the Secretary of State to make an order that a licence be to cease to have an effect unless it be satisfied that it be necessary for public protection that that licence remain in force . we be clear throughout that public protection must remain a priority , but that change in presumption — a rebuttable presumption — will mean that when the Parole Board consider a licence termination for an offender who have already be find safe to be release , it will approach that with the presumption in favour of terminating . I appreciate that do not necessarily go as far as my hon . friend the Member for Bromley and Chislehurst ( Sir Robert Neill ) might wish — that be evidence by his table new clause 1 — but I believe that we have make reasonable and balanced progress . of course , we will carefully consider any further recommendation . before I conclude , it be right that I highlight the amendment table by the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee , the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) , in respect of the infected blood inquiry . I have consider carefully what she have table . she will appreciate that this be a matter for the Cabinet Office . in my opening remark , I want to acknowledge the huge impact that that scandal have have on people — family and individual — up and down the country . I do not propose to say much more at this point , because I want to come to that in some detail once I have hear her remark in move new clause 27 . I have seek to be as comprehensive as possible in my opening remark — I be grateful to the House for its indulgence — to leave time in my closing remark to address specific point on that issue and other , once member have speak to their amendment . I be grateful to all who have engage with the Bill as it have progress . I will listen carefully to the debate , and I look forward to respond . I commend the Government ' s amendment to the House . rise — before I call Kevin Brennan , the House can see how many member be stand . the first few to be call should not be think about speak for long than six minute . that limit be very likely to be reduce . I do not want to put the mocker on people intervene on one another — it be a debate — but please be mindful that it will eat into other people ' s time . I rise to speak to the amendment stand in my name and will refer to other . the opposition acknowledge the significance of the Bill , but even if the new Government amendment that the Minister have just outline be adopt , we can not escape the reality that the Bill nevertheless remain a skeletal framework that require substantial enhancement . for too long — over a period of eight year and an octet of Justice Secretaries , which be an average of one per year — the promise of a comprehensive victim Bill have be dangle before we , yet still we be here try to fill in its gap . that provide little comfort for the victim of crime across the country . have pick up the Bill since it be consider in Committee , I wish to pay tribute to my colleague who work on it through that stage and do all the heavy lifting : in particular , my predecessor on the Front Bench , my hon . friend the Members for Cardiff North ( Anna McMorrin ) and for Lewisham West and Penge ( Ellie Reeves ) , as well as my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham , Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) , who be in her place on the Back Benches . I also pay tribute to those who have engage from the Opposition back Benches , include my right hon . friend the Members for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) and for Alyn and Deeside ( Mark Tami ) and my hon . friend the Member for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) and for South Shields ( Mrs Lewell - Buck ) . I also thank those who have table amendment for consideration today , include my right hon . friend the Member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) , my hon . friend the Members for Poplar and Limehouse ( Apsana Begum ) and for Walthamstow ( Stella Creasy ) , and my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Camberwell and Peckham ( Ms Harman ) . that really show the amount of interest in the Bill right across the House . throughout the Bill ' s passage in the Commons , Labour have consistently push for a Bill that do more than just acknowledge victim ; we seek to empower victim . to that end , we have table amendment that be need to strengthen the Bill into a more robust charter of support for victim . our key amendment be design to provide four pillar of justice that would place victim at the centre of the criminal justice system . they would : first , strengthen the power of the Victims ' commissioner ; secondly , add persistent antisocial behaviour to a comprehensive definition of a victim ; thirdly , implement a duty of candour require public authority and official to act in the public interest ; and , fourthly , provide independent legal advocate for victim of rape . that be not just about provide a service but about uphold the right of the most vulnerable in their time of need . we note that the Government be take up one of our previous amendment on reform the power of the Secretary of State in relation to overturn Parole Board decision . we also welcome their decision to join we in respond to the dreadful case of Jade Ward by finally agree to put Jade ' s law on the statute book . however , overall the Government have adopt a somewhat glacial approach to fast - track measure to address the plight of victim in the Bill , in a manner that betray a lack of total focus on and commitment to victim . they have show we that victim be not the top priority . that be evident in the inclusion of matter relate to prisoner and parole , which dilute the Bill ' s intend purpose . our plan be to put victim at the heart of the criminal justice system , ensure that their voice be not just hear but heed . as Labour have say throughout , we will not oppose the Bill — to do so would be to turn away from the potential for progress that it promise — but let we be clear that , however commendable its intention may be , intention alone do not suffice . that be why , without the amendment that we have table , the Bill be a shadow of what it could be . let I turn to our amendment . new clause 13 would impose a duty on specified public authority to collaborate with the Commissioner for Victims and witness . it would empower the commissioner to require co - operation from designated public authority to monitor compliance with the victim code , compel they to comply . despite the Government ' s acknowledgment of the commissioner ' s significance , the role recently remain vacant for more than a year . that stark fact in itself be a practical demonstration of the difference between Government rhetoric and reality when it come to victim . have a Victims ' Commissioner in post be just the first requirement ; strengthen the commissioner ' s power be imperative . for there to be effective accountability on behalf of victim , it be essential to grant the necessary power . Labour be dedicate to put victim first , include through empower the Victims ' commissioner to offer maximum support to victim , align with previous commissioner ’ call for those enhance power . minister have suggest during the Bill ' s passage that past commissioner command co - operation without the need for a legal duty to be encode , but we should not burden commissioner with the expectation of consistently surpass their role in order to ensure co - operation . the Government ' s Domestic Abuse Act 2021 grant the Domestic Abuse Commissioner comparable power , so why the reluctance to afford the same to the Victims ' Commissioner ? if the Government be genuinely committed to enhance the experience of victim and ensure that public authority be hold to account , they should grant the Victims ' commissioner additional power in line with our new clause . I turn to new clause 14 , which also stand in my name . it be clear that while the Bill be suppose to support victim , it fall short for victim of major incident . the new clause would compel organisation to face public scrutiny with honesty , especially during inquiry into state - relate death . it would maintain a duty of candour , which be crucial for public servant to perform their role with integrity and to call out harmful practice that endanger life . rise — I pay tribute to my right hon . friend the Member who be about to intervene . new clause 14 be much well than the Government ' s provision in the Criminal Justice Bill , which relate to produce code of practice only for the police . do my hon . friend agree that his new clause would be a vital part of implement a full Hillsborough law , which be what our party call for ? in all candour , I agree . the need for the new clause could not be more urgent . it be root in a simple expectation that those in public service , from health to policing , must not only act diligently but expose and challenge dangerous practice . the duty of candour would be not just a guideline but a legal obligation , and it would be particularly vital in tragedy like Hillsborough . I commend my right hon . friend ' s campaign over many year on that subject and on terrible tragedy such as the Grenfell Tower fire . new clause 14 aim to shift from a culture of defensiveness to one of openness , and would support those who wish to contribute to inquiry but feel pressured to remain silent . the NHS duty of candour have be a step in the right direction , but we need to go far for all public authority if we be to end the cycle of institutional defensiveness that not only delay justice but fail to safeguard the life of our citizen . the new clause seek to break down those barrier of evasiveness and foster a culture of accountability , where seek the truth become paramount . a statutory duty of candour would circumvent all such issue and direct investigation towards the most pertinent matter promptly and efficiently . most important of all , it would bring justice to the victim and their family who , for far too long , have be let down by public body that be mean to do the right thing . I turn to amendment 33 , which again stand in my name . the Bill intend to improve protection for victim , but it neglect a significant group , which the Minister make reference to in his remark : individual plague by the menace of persistent antisocial behaviour , who be often live in fear in their own home . the amendment seek to rectify that oversight by ensure that the definition of " victim " include those torment by antisocial behaviour such that they meet the threshold for an antisocial behaviour case review . there be no good reason why that group of people should have to deal with all the same agency as other victim without the benefit of the same right , so they should be add to the victim code . member across the House will know of many people in their constituency suffer from that kind of antisocial behaviour . it be a daily battle for they . it be not the mark of a just society that they should not be include in the code . currently , those victim be leave without the protection and support that the Bill extend to other victim . that be an unacceptable gap in the legislation . we must extend support to those affect by persistent antisocial behaviour . it be our duty to ensure that no victim be leave behind . the Bill must demonstrate that our support for those victim be unwavering and our commitment to all victim be absolute . we must ensure that every member of our society can live in dignity and peace , to which they have a right . I hear what the Minister say on this matter , but it be not good enough . I turn amendment 154 and 155 , though I will not dwell on they . they seek to maintain Welsh Ministers ' responsibility for issue guidance to independent domestic violence advocate and independent sexual violence advocate in Wales . in the Bill , the Secretary of State be slate to provide guidance to outline their role , the service to victim , and collaboration with the criminal justice system and other victim support entity . we support enhanced victim support , but our concern pertain to the Secretary of State assume responsibility for the guidance in Wales . the Welsh Senedd do not grant legislative consent to the Bill due to its reservation about the role of the Secretary of State for Justice . welfare and safeguarding be devolve matter . I will not go into great detail because of time , but whether by oversight or design , the UK Government ' s assumption of responsibility create a dual system with vary authority responsible for victim support provider base on the nature of the assistance render . that can not be the right approach for victim in Wales . elsewhere , the Government have show a disregard for devolution . I be not sure that it be deliberate in this case , and I genuinely hope that it be an oversight . the Minister ' s raise eyebrow suggest that I might be wrong about that , and that I be be too generous to he and the Government . as he have display some willingness to amend the Bill in our direction in other area , I hope that he will reconsider the drafting to prevent further encroachment on devolved power and , more importantly , to avoid less clarity for those help victim in Wales and for victim themselves . if he be not willing to support our amendment on Report , I would welcome at least a commitment from he — I hope he be listen — to give further consideration to this matter when the Bill arrive in the other place . new clause 38 on independent legal advocate be also significant . it seek to recognise that the criminal justice system as it stand do not provide an adequate mean of uphold the right of rape victim , who so often feel that they be on trial . the provision of free independent legal advocate for rape victim be not merely beneficial but fundamentally necessary . for far too long , sexual violence victim have navigate the treacherous water of the criminal justice system alone , often retraumatise by the very process that seek to deliver justice . the new clause aim to change that reality , and by table it we aim to go far than simply leave it to the police to ensure that they seek victim ' personal record only when really necessary . the new clause would give victim a real and reliable opportunity to challenge those sort of request when they go too far , by have an experienced advocate by their side . the new clause would fundamentally change a century - old legal system without endanger the right of defendant . in do so , it aim to rebuild the trust of victim — woman and girl in particular — because our justice system will cease to function if people do not feel able come forward and report crime . I turn to new clause 42 in my name and new clause 27 in the name of my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull North . I pay tribute to her incredible campaigning on this matter over many year and that of other member who have campaign alongside she . we have all be move by the appalling infected blood tragedy . the Labour party want to help ensure that justice and compensation for victim and their family be deliver urgently . I applaud campaign advocacy organisation , alongside the all - party parliamentary group on haemophilia and contaminate blood , which have work so tirelessly to secure justice . this issue have span many year and several Parliaments . the former Prime Minister , the right hon . member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) , set up the inquiry . many member and former member — include Andy Burnham and the current Chancellor of the Exchequer , when they be Health Secretaries — advocate for such an independent inquiry . the Government have accept that there be a moral case for compensation . the interim payment to a number of victim be an important recognition of that . I be sure that the Minister have see the letter that the shadow Chancellor write over the weekend to the Chancellor of the Exchequer on this matter . new clause 27 provide a chance to show that the Commons support the principle of deliver a compensation scheme and understand the urgency of deliver justice . new clause 42 relate to that , and would establish a deadline of 25 sit day from the publication of the final report on infected blood for an oral statement to this House set out how victim can access the scheme and what step will be take to establish a compensation body . I hope that the Government will accept both new clause tonight . the aim be to ensure that the Government move urgently after the final report be publish . this evening ' s vote be an important opportunity , and we be willing to work with the Government to ensure that a fair scheme can be set up and administer quickly . there be time before the Bill go to the Lords for we to work far on that . it be a hugely complex matter . we be keen to work on a cross - party basis to shape a final compensation scheme that can deliver justice urgently . we await the final finding of the independent infect blood inquiry chair by Sir Brian Langstaff . however , there be no reason for the Government not to move forward , especially as the King ' s Speech commit to action . be my hon . friend as surprised as I be that the Government be say it be not possible to set up the compensation scheme and make payment at this time , because we do not have the final report ? for the Post Office Horizon scandal , they be already make payment , ahead of the final report of the public inquiry . yes , and the answer to the last line of my right hon . friend ' s intervention be , " what be the difference here ? " that be a very pertinent question , which I know the Minister will want to answer when he get to the Dispatch Box to reply to the debate . I wish to pay tribute to Sir Brian Langstaff and the inquiry team for their work and their unstinting commitment to deliver justice for those infect . I would be grateful if the Minister could update the House on what work the Government have be do since the publication of the report . I accept that that be part of the Cabinet Office ' s responsibility , but it sit with we this evening and , of course , government be suppose to be join up . I know the House would also be grateful for an update on the expected timing of the publication of Sir Brian ' s final report , as this issue affect member across the House . in that spirit , let we try to rise to the occasion and find a way to work constructively on a cross - party basis , but crucially at speed . to be clear , I urge my hon . friend to support new clause 27 , table by my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull North , should it be press to a Division . new clause 1 be table by the hon . member for Bromley and Chislehurst ( Sir Robert Neill ) , and he be absolutely right that it concern a very serious matter . unfortunately , give the impact of the Government ' s effective destruction of the criminal justice system , we lack the infrastructure and resource to keep the public safe , should his new clause be implement immediately . our priority be , and always must be , the safety of the british public . we be concerned that if new clause 1 be enact without provision for significant improvement in probation and parole , we would potentially significantly increase the risk to the public and to the prisoner themselves . the Government ' s movement on this issue be a welcome first step . I look forward to see what further progress can be make by our colleague in the other place . on parole , I express our disappointment , generally , regard part 3 of the Bill , the addition of which divert attention away from the Bill be a victim Bill . however , I recognise the Government ' s acceptance of the basis of our argument , which be contain in new clause 15 and 16 . those new clause , table in my name , would prevent a Justice Secretary from overturn Parole Board decision and redirect appeal for an independent decision . I emphasise the critical need for the Government to fulfil their duty to protect citizen , rather than pursue political gain or attempt to exert control over independent quasi - judicial entity . the Government be right in recognise the gravity of the substantial challenge in parole , many of which , I be afraid , stem from 13 year of their own misrule , mark by systematic underfunding and undermining of our criminal justice system . we be devoted to uphold law and order , pledge to enhance the Parole Board ' s effectiveness and to reinvest in our criminal justice system . we extend an invitation to the Government to align with our endeavour and aspire to foster improvement for victim and prisoner alike . on the Government ' s amendment , there be a lot of they . it be not always the case that the Government be willing to table substantive amendment in the House of Commons . I think it be the right thing to do , rather than keep they until the Bill arrive in another place . quite a few of the amendment represent the Government ' s alignment with our previous amendment , so it would be churlish of I not to welcome they . after all , imitation be the sincere form of flattery . Sarcasm be the low form of wit ! I know the hon . Gentleman be an expert on that subject . new clause 22 and 23 represent movement by the Government towards our long - stand campaign for a Hillsborough law . they introduce a statutory definition of " major incident " and " victim " , and legislate for a permanent advocate on the side of victim to speak to their good interest and the treatment they receive from public body . minister will be all too familiar with our commitment to bring in a Hillsborough law . we table new clause 14 to push the duty of candour , which we have already discuss . I understand there be a possibility the House might divide on new clause 10 , table by the hon . member for Westmorland and Lonsdale ( Tim Farron ) . the Conservatives ' failure to prevent illegal sewage leak have lead to a drastic increase in illegal discharge , trash nature , damage tourism and put people ' s health at risk . they promise we the affluent society ; they give we the effluent society . Labour believe that when Ofwat conclude that the water company be inflict the damage , the cost must be pay by the offend company and not the taxpayer . the polluter should pay . finally , I want to refer to Jade ' s law and the work of my right hon . friend the Member for Alyn and Deeside . his campaigning , along with Jade Ward ' s family and the community , have be incredible ; they have fight to ensure that no family endure what that family do ever again . my right hon . friend stand by his constituent , who fight their campaign in an incredible and exemplary manner . it be welcome news that the Government will protect child where one parent murder the other . I must state some disappointment that element of the amendment that my hon . friend the Member for Lewisham West and Penge table in Committee be not carry over , too . none the less , it be a celebratory event for Jade Ward ' s family and the community , and for my right hon . friend . we should offer they our thank and congratulation . the Government have a once - in - a - generation opportunity to make a real change for victim . I urge they not to waste it . I hope they will support our amendment on that basis , and I hope they continue their trend in follow in our footstep . rise — Order . I be introduce a six - minute limit from the very beginning . give the time available , I will concentrate on some specific aspect of this very important Bill . I welcome the approach take by the Minister and by the Lord Chancellor and Secretary of State , whom I be delighted to see on the Front Bench . their constructive approach have improve the Bill considerably . I be particularly grateful to they for have take on board , in a large number of aspect , the Justice Committee ' s pre - legislative scrutiny of the draft Victims Bill , as it then be , and our September 2022 report on imprisonment for public protection sentence . they have move and I very much welcome that . I particularly appreciate the effort the Lord Chancellor have make personally to engage with I and member of my Committee . it be worth say that IPP sentence remain a blot on the justice system — not my word , but those , dare I say it , of my right hon . and learn Friend the Lord Chancellor . we want to try to remove that blot as much as possible . we need not rehearse the history . whatever the intention , the scheme do not have the desire effect . indeed , it have the effect of create real injustice to such an extent that this House , with cross - party support , abolish IPP sentence as long ago as 2012 . what we do not do be remove the sentence retrospectively , so we now have a situation where there be still some 2 , 600 people in prison with indeterminate sentence that we as a House think be not appropriate and do not work . the noble Lord Blunkett , the author of the scheme , say in another place , " I get it wrong " and that we need to put it right . against that honesty from the author of the scheme , I hope the House will reflect that we ought to grasp the nettle . there have be major change , and we should recognise the Government ' s good intent , in relation to the licence situation . as the Minister observe , these go beyond our recommendation . I appreciate that , and it will make a major change for very many prisoner . our Committee take evidence from more witness than for any other inquiry and publish a report of some 62 page about how the licence provision be set people up to fail . because they have a lifelong sword of Damocles over their head , their rehabilitation be inhibit . indeed , we hear compelling evidence about the negative impact on their mental health and ability to reintegrate into society . reduce the wait for a lifelong licence to be remove from 10 year to three , with the extra possibility after two further year , be a major reform , and I be grateful for it , particularly as there be more people who have be recall to prison on their licence than there be those serve their original sentence . that be important but , with all due respect to the Government , I do not think it go far enough , which be why I want to persist , if possible , with my new clause 1 — and , in set out the reason for do so , to address the point make by the hon . member for Cardiff West ( Kevin Brennan ) from the Opposition Front Bench . this be not about an immediate opening of the prison gate . I can understand people ' s perfectly proper concern about public protection , not least because many of those incarcerate on these sentence will have suffer real mental deterioration while in prison , as the indefinite nature of the sentence give they no hope , and so will potentially be in a bad state , in term of public protection , than when they go in . it would be unfair and unrealistic to pretend that new clause 1 would lead to the immediate release of every person in this situation . it be much more consider and modest than that , and would set up a process whereby an independent panel would advise on how good to embark on a resentencing exercise . that be an unusual thing , but the existence of the IPP sentence , without any retrospective change , be an unusual thing , too . this be recommend to we as the logical option by the noble Lord Thomas of Cwmgiedd , a former Lord Chief Justice . against the background of his eminence , I think the new clause warrant well consideration than we have yet have . if new clause 1 be not support in this House tonight , I very much hope that the other House will look at it again and that the Government will continue to engage on it , because it would not lead to an immediate release of anybody . it would , though , set in train a process to enable everyone to be give a determinate sentence . that seem to I only fair and just , and I hope that we can look at that go forward . it can not be just or accord with our sense of fairness that we should have people serve sentence in some case 10 year in excess of their tariff , which be out of all proportion to the sentence that the judge at the time thought be appropriate for the index offence , as we call it . there be other important part of this Bill — which I be afraid I do not have time to touch on — that I also welcome and hope will be take forward . in particular , I welcome the change to parole , which be a much more balanced set of measure now than they be when the Bill be originally bring forward . I know that the Lord Chancellor and the Minister have act personally to improve the Bill in that regard . I thank they for that , but I ask they still to reflect upon the position on IPP sentence . I call the SNP Front Bencher . it be a pleasure to follow the Chair of the Justice Committee , of which I recently become a member . I look forward to work with he . as this Bill cover most of the devolved competence , I will confine my observation — you will be pleased to hear , Mr Deputy Speaker — to new clause 27 , table by the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) , and explain why the Scottish National party will be support it . it should be note that over 140 member , of every political affiliation represent in the House , have sign it , which show the strength of feeling . since Sir Brian Langstaff consider the issue of compensation , many of we have have concern about the Government ' s sneak out write statement at recess or even before prorogation , which do not give member the opportunity to ask question of the Government and the Cabinet Office on the Floor of this House . we have hear the phrase , " work at pace " . I refer a couple of week ago to move at a snail ' s pace , but I be start to think that the tortoise , from the old story about the race with the hare , would already have lap the Cabinet Office in deal with this issue . that be a real frustration . as co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group on haemophilia and contaminate blood , the right hon . Member have lead with distinction . I thank she for table her amendment ; it be a pleasure to serve with she as one of the vice - chair of the APPG . I also pay tribute again to my Glasgow South West constituent , Cathy Young and her daughter Nicola Stewart , who have regularly raise this issue with I to ensure that they get justice . they deserve justice , because we be talk about individual who have put their career to the side , or perhaps their academic career and qualification to the side , to care for their love one . it be now time for compensation to be deliver . I refer the House to a series of tweet this morning by the Sunday Times political editor , Caroline Wheeler , justify the inclusion of these amendment . it be worth reiterate and build on the argument , as the shadow Minister do early . Sir Brian Langstaff have chastise the Government , tell they that " there aren ' t any detail . there be no timeline . there be no structure yet in place , " and that " if it trouble my conscience I would think it would trouble the conscience of a caring government and you have say that ' s what you would wish to be . " I be certainly of the view , along with those support the new clause , that the compensation scheme need to be establish immediately and begin its work . the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North refer in an intervention to the fact that the Government have overturn the wrongful conviction of Post Office worker for theft and false accounting , and that compensation be be pay while that inquiry be still ongoing . yet another example of the Government work at pace to meet the demand of the day be see during the pandemic , when they set up , within day , a complex system of payment under the furlough scheme affect million of people . those of we who be around at that time be give the opportunity to raise issue . if that could be do then and the political will be there , it should be there for this . however , if the Government do not have the political will , it be the responsibility of member of this House to impose our will on the Government to ensure that that happen . justice delay be justice deny . we need to remember , when consider this issue tonight , that four victim continue to die every four day . if that do not demand quick and immediate action from the Government , nothing will . however , if they believe for one second that delay compensation will save money , they be completely and utterly wrong , because no money will be save by delay . court case involve the survivor of this scandal will resume within three month of the finding of the inquiry be publish , and legal cost will be add to what the Government will pay . infected blood survivor should be consider not as entry on a spreadsheet , but as people whose life have be tear apart — people who have be deny opportunity and whose livelihood have be destroy . that be why I and my hon . and right hon . friend will support new clause 27 tonight . I call Dame Maria Miller , who have six minute . let I start by thank my right hon . friend the Minister for the constructive way in which he have engage with the Bill since its Second Reading . in the interest of time , I will confine my comment to the two amendment that I have table , which have cross - party support and to which I think the Government be listen intently . amendment 1 would recognise as victim people who have be silence by non - disclosure agreement . those people be victim by virtue of the very fact they have be silence , not know if they can talk to anyone without incur legal consequence . the Higher Education ( Freedom of Speech ) Act 2023 already deem the use of nda to be unlawful when there be allegation of bullying , harassment or sexual misconduct in publicly fund university , and my amendment be intend to do the same in other sphere . some individual make such allegation be already treat by the Government as need protection in law ; my amendment would merely apply what be see as essential legal protection in university to everyone . unfortunately , despite two warning notice issue by the Solicitors Regulation Authority alert solicitor to NDA misuse , one in three solicitor ' firm be still apparently unaware of the issue . I therefore think it be time to act through legislation to change a culture which , seven year on from # MeToo , continue to see it as acceptable for those in the legal and human resource profession to use device that be so destructive to the individual concern . the United States , Canada and Ireland have already legislate in this regard . I listen carefully to the Minister ' s opening remark , and I definitely hear a door be leave wide open to a change in the Bill . I hope we will see measure to outlaw this bad practice soon rather than later , because the time to leave it to the regulator be past ; that have not work . I thank Rape Crisis for help I to draft new clause 19 , which concern access to counselling record . rape and sexual abuse be traumatic crime and survivor need to gain access to therapy , but frontline service be report that survivor be be deter from access support because record be routinely request by the police and trawl through , often unnecessarily . a recent review show that nearly a third of 342 request for survivor ' record contain request for counselling record , and nearly a third of those request relate to victim ' reliability or credibility rather than aim to establish the fact of the incident involve . I sign new clause 19 because , have spend many year as defence and prosecution counsel in such case , I know the importance of get to the truth and look at previous inconsistent statement . do my right hon . friend agree that give a judge discretion to ensure that the disclose material be truly relevant to the issue in the case would be an excellent safeguard which would protect the wellbeing of victim of crime who be have to relive the circumstance every time those issue be bring up ? I think it go to the heart of the case when someone with such extensive experience endorse a change of approach , and my right hon . and learn Friend be entirely right . the new clause call for a change that would transfer the decision to release record to a judge , but would also ensure that counselling record be disclose only when they be " of substantial probative value " . I would say to my right hon . and learn Friend that I believe , and Rape Crisis believe , that it be not just the involvement of a judge but a heightening of the threshold that will help to improve the system . I believe that judicial oversight at this pre - charge stage will immensely improve the attitude of the police and the Crown Prosecution Service to survivor of rape , and their practice in that regard . I hope that the Government be able to hear the call behind amendment 1 and new clause 19 . I have already thank my right hon . friend the Minister for his positive approach to non - disclosure agreement , and I look forward to hear more about the action that I hope the Government will take in the future . I also hope that the Minister who wind up the debate will give some indication of the approach that will be take to counselling record . I rise to speak to new clause 27 and amendment 142 to 144 . there will be woman and man , child and family , in every constituency whose life have be forever touch by the infected blood scandal of the 1970 and 1980 . as we have already hear , one person die every four day on average as a result of the scandal , and many of those who have spend decade campaign for justice be no long alive . it be nearly eight month since , in April this year , Sir Brian Langstaff publish the infected blood inquiry ' s final recommendation on compensation . at the time , he say : " my conclusion be that wrong be do at individual , collective and systemic level . " most important — I hope the Minister might just listen to this — Sir Brian say in his report : " I can not in conscience contribute to that further harm by delay what I have to say about compensation . this be why I be take the unusual step of issue one set of recommendation in advance of all other at this stage . " Sir Brian have say all that he will say about compensation . there be nothing new to learn from the final report , despite the Government ' s protestation . however , in his summing up of the Government ' s work since April 2023 on respond to his recommendation , Sir Brian tell the Prime Minister in July : " there aren ' t any detail . there be no timeline , there be no structure yet in place … if it trouble my conscience I would think it would trouble the conscience of a caring government , and you have say that ' s what you would wish to be . " that be why I table the new clause and amendment , into which I have copy Sir Brian ' s recommendation . amendment 142 would extend interim compensation payment to bereaved parent , child and sibling who have lose love one as a result of infected blood but have never receive a penny . amendment 143 would establish a bespoke psychological service in England for those infected and affect , which already exist in Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland . amendment 144 would ensure that the Bill apply to people infect and affect , as set out in Sir Brian ' s second interim report . finally , let I say something about new clause 27 , on which I hope to seek to test the opinion of the House . it have be sign by a further 146 right hon . and hon . member , for which I be very grateful , and 10 political party be represent in that group . many other member have indicate their support . the new clause require the Government to set up a body to deliver compensation payment to people infect and affect by the contaminated blood scandal . let we not forget that the five - year infect blood inquiry be due to publish its final report in November , last month . the Government tell I , and the House , numerous time that they have be work " at pace " to that timeline . this should not have be a problem for the Government , because they have do all the work in prepare for the November deadline , but those who have be infect and affected have be tell by Ministers that they must accept a further delay , until next March , when Sir Brian will publish his final comment . Sir Brian have make it very clear that there be nothing else to say about compensation , because it be all set out in his second interim report of April 2023 . let I again reiterate the point about the Government ' s approach to the victim of the Post Office Horizon scandal . victim of that appalling injustice be to be compensate before the conclusion of the public inquiry , and I would argue that those infect and affect by the bad treatment disaster in the history of the NHS be equally entitle to compensation before the name plaque come down and the light go out on the inquiry headquarters , as Sir Brian envisage in his compensation recommendation in April . I fully support the right hon . Lady ' s new clause . in this regard , I have a constituent that I have to deal with when I be first elect as a Member of Parliament in 2010 . today ' s Bill be from the Justice Department , but justice delay be justice deny . it be crucial that all victim be treat with parity and we should not delay any far in ensure that they get justice . I thank the right hon . Lady for her work and support her new clause . I thank the hon . gentleman for his comment . it be important this evening that we show the Government that the will of this Parliament , across the party , be that that body should be set up to administer compensation payment and to start to deliver justice to those infect and affect by the contaminated blood scandal . I have a great deal of respect for the Minister , but I want to say to he how disappointing it be that his Government be mount a hard three - line Whip operation to defeat these amendment and new clause . that be shocking , when minister have stand at the Dispatch Box and say clearly that they accept the moral case for compensation . if they accept the moral case for compensation , now be the time for they to do the right thing and support new clause 27 . let we get on with this . let we get justice to these people who have be wait decade for justice to be deliver . I be grateful for the chance to speak in this debate and I want to commend the Minister for the diligent work he have do on the Bill and also the Bill Committee for its scrutiny of the legislation . some of we have be wait for over a decade for this Bill to come forward , and a great deal of positive work have take place . I welcome the amendment , many of they table by the Government , and in particular new clause 37 on Jade ' s law , which as the Minister have say be incredibly important . as the Bill go to the other place , I ask the Government to reflect on whether the measure could go far to cover other serious offence . the Minster will be aware of recent report of a family that spend £ 30 , 000 in legal cost to remove the parental right of a father from his daughter follow a conviction of child sexual abuse . these be complex issue , but we should make sure that we be protect all victim . I welcome the amendment on the introduction of a stand advocate and the clarification provide by the Government around major incident . we know from the Manchester Arena terror attack and other serious incident how important it be that victim and the family who be affect be give support . I pay tribute to all hon . and right hon . member who have campaign hard on this issue . I be afraid that too many of we have spend a lot of time with victim and their family and we know that their voice must be hear . legislation to ensure that a standing advocate be in place will provide the Government as well as the victim with an extra layer of focus and the protection that we would all welcome . a number of amendment and new clause relate to domestic abuse , and I shall comment on they briefly . a great deal of work have take place on the Bill , and new clause 20 on domestic abuse - relate death review be particularly welcome as it focus on ensure that lesson be learn from these horrific incident . I know from my previous work as Home Secretary and the work that take place on the Domestic Abuse Act 2021 that so many death take place , and it be right that the public service should review these incident to see whether lesson can be learn and whether any change can be make to prevent or reduce risk to other victim . I commend the hon . member for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) for her new clause 6 , which rightly highlight the importance of the role of independent domestic and sexual violence advocate and stalk advocate , and the specialist service that she be ask for . there be some really strong lesson that could be learn here with these annual review , and I hope that the Government will look at these area and give some assurance on the ongoing work that could take place as this legislation come forward . there be much more that we could do not only to prevent these horrific crime but to ensure that the victim and their family be give the support that be need . I be pleased to support amendment 14 , also table by the hon . member for Rotherham , which have cross - party support and would require criminal justice body to ensure not only that record be keep of name change of perpetrator but that victim be notify of this . this be all about make sure that victim be give representation . I want to pay tribute to Della Wright , who have campaign for this change with a great deal of personal courage and conviction . I look forward to hear the Government ' s approach to this amendment . I also want to comment on new clause 7 , again table by the hon . member for Rotherham , which deal with one of those area where victim feel that they get a poor service and have many frustration around a lack of information about their right and the support that they be entitle to . there be concern that the current victim code be not be promote enough , and much more work need to be do in this area . my right hon . friend and I have campaign hard to make this a reality and we welcome this day . do she agree that , alongside awareness of the code , we need to embed training within the police and the other agency ? in that spirit , will she look at my amendment 156 , which make that very point ? do she share with I a keenness to hear a response from the Government that embody training and awareness to ensure that the code be a reality for victim ? my right hon . and learn Friend be absolutely right , and I thank he for his intervention . I be go to come to his particular amendment and say how much I agree with he . it speak to the work that we have both undertake in Government on the victim code and on make sure that the structure can provide practical delivery and support for victim . these amendment speak to that , and it would be interesting to hear from the Minister about how this approach will be take far and how it can be strengthen . I welcome new clause 43 , table by the hon . member for South Shields ( Mrs Lewell - Buck ) , with whom I have have the privilege of discuss her concern . she have be a strong champion of this cause and I pay tribute to she and in particular to the family she have work with and choose to represent on this issue . our heart break for parent who want to register the death of a love one but have be prevent from do so because coroner ' inquiry and other process have be take place . we need to find way to address this , and I would press the Government to look at this with a degree of conviction and also of pure compassion for those family member so that we can find a way to work through this . I shall conclude in the interest of time . we could say much more about the numerous new clause and amendment , but I hope that those on the Government Front Bench will listen to our concern and comment so that we can work collectively to provide support for victim through the new clause and government amendment . victim of crime have wait a long time for this legislation and it be important that we do everything to stand by they . we will now go to a five - minute limit . I wish to speak in respect of Government new clause 37 . I welcome the fact that the Government have finally change their mind , despite tell we for so long that Jade ' s law could not be do . I would like to pay tribute to Jade ' s parent , Karen Robinson and Paul Ward , to their friend Edwin Duggan and to Jade ' s sibling for their tireless campaigning and the bravery and tenacity they have show in what be an incredibly tough situation . on 26 August 2021 , Jade , age just 27 , be brutally kill by her estranged husband Russell Marsh . on 12 April last year , Marsh be give a life sentence with a minimum of 25 year in prison . despite these distressing circumstance , Jade ' s family be horrify to learn that they face the prospect of continue contact with the man who murder their daughter . despite his appalling action , Russell Marsh , who share four child with Jade , still retain parental responsibility under law . the law as it stand allow a parent convict of the murder of the other parent the power on issue such as where the child go to school and whether they have passport , holiday abroad and medical treatment . these matter often end up in the family court . we can only imagine how traumatic this must be for the family go through this . after have already suffer the unimaginable pain of lose their daughter in the way Jade ' s family have , the current process compel they to face their daughter ' s killer and act as a constant reminder of their dark moment . in case where the convict parent show long - run obsessive and control behaviour prior to their imprisonment , the current process effectively grant they the mean to continue the control and coercion of the victim ' s family in the same way that they do with the victim . it can be extremely traumatic for child to know that the person who kill their mother know so much about their life , particularly in case where the child witness the murder . with the introduction of Jade ' s law , no long will perpetrator with a history of abusive behaviour be able to force control and psychological abuse upon the victim ' s family from inside their prison cell . that be why Jade ' s family and friend have be campaign to automatically suspend the parental responsibility of a parent find guilty of murder their child ' s other parent . the onus be currently on the family to prove why Marsh ' s parental responsibility should be revoke or restrict , whereas Jade ' s law will mean that parental responsibility will be automatically suspend in such circumstance , thereby shift the onus , with the substantial review process that the Government outline in their amendment , to ensure that the suspension of parental responsibility be in the child ' s good interest . last year , Edwin Duggan start a petition to put Jade ' s law on the agenda , collect more than 130 , 000 signature . since then , parliamentary colleague and I have push the Government to make Jade ' s law a reality . we secure a Westminster Hall debate when the petition surpass 100 , 000 signature , and I thank the Minister , the right hon . member for Charnwood ( Edward Argar ) , for engage with we . I thank Labour colleague who help with the campaign , include my hon . friend the Members for Lewisham West and Penge ( Ellie Reeves ) and for Birmingham , Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) . unfortunately , as I understand it , the Government amendment do not include provision to apply Jade ' s law retrospectively , as there will be a duty on the Crown court to make a prohibit step order only when sentence an offender . will the Government look at further step to ensure that people , like Marsh , who have already be convict of murder within the specification of Jade ' s law be make subject to it ? this campaign spring out of the injury and injustice face by Jade ' s family , and it be only right that Jade ' s law put it right for they and for other family . I conclude by read a statement issue by Jade ' s parent after their daughter ' s killer be sentence : " Jade be the sunshine in our life , she be the glue that hold we all together . she be also a devoted mum who would do anything for her child , a much - love friend , daughter , sister , aunty , niece and granddaughter . Jade ' s whole life be ahead of she , and her death have leave a void in all our life . " sadly , it be too late for Jade . but her child , and other in the same situation , still have their whole life ahead of they . we owe it to they to ensure that the system be on the side of victim . I be pleased that the Government have finally come to term with the injustice of the current process . I be delighted to speak in support of the Bill , and I thank the Public Bill Committee and the Minister for their hard work in get it to this point . my constituent in Redditch , and the public across the country , expect the law of the land to protect the law - abide majority , and there be nothing as infuriate or frustrating to they than when perpetrator of crime receive more attention and support than their victim , which be why I welcome the Bill . before I begin , I put on record my thank for the exceptional work of the criminal justice agency in my Redditch constituency — particularly Inspector Rich Field and his team of officer ; the police and crime commissioner , John Campion ; and support service such as the Sandycroft centre and its head of wellbeing — who work tirelessly to support victim of crime . in the interest of time , I will speak about a couple of measure that be of particular interest . I have the privilege of serve as a Minister in the Home Office and the Ministry of Justice , and some of this legislation have its genesis in the end - to - end rape review . I will never lose my strong commitment to serve and speak up for victim of the most hideous crime — rape , domestic abuse , sexual assault and child sexual abuse . these crime have no place in our society , which be why , in relation to the treatment of victim of rape and serious sexual offence , I particularly welcome the measure on disclosure of third - party material that be add to the Bill in Committee . I be pleased that these measure go far than exist protection , and that they will enable victim to trust that those work to bring perpetrator to justice will do so without violate their important therapy - room conversation . when do the Minister expect these measure to be roll out and adopt by all police force and Crown Prosecution Service area across the country ? it be , of course , in our interest that victim be support throughout their journey through the criminal justice system . we know from countless testimony that victim will not come forward to report crime if they think the process be burdensome or traumatic . I pay tribute to the many victim who have bravely speak out about their experience , which be what motivate all of we to continue to help they by pass further measure to protect they as they go through the system . I be sorry to say that victim of drive crime be one group of victim who be often overlook . I have previously speak about my friend and colleague Councillor Lucy Harrison , who now lead the RoadPeace campaign to strengthen the law on drive crime . will the Minister meet I to discuss the RoadPeace " remain and report " campaign so that more people who lose their life on the road get the justice they deserve ? I particularly welcome the measure in the Bill to well protect the public against top - tier criminal , such as murderer and rapist . I know this will come as welcome news to the victim of these crime and their family . I have previously raise the case of the monster Robert Brown , who hit his wife , Joanna Simpson , over the head at least 15 time with a hammer . he be due to be release from prison , which be a terrifying prospect for his family . I be pleased that the Government be use the power they introduce to refer his case to the Parole Board , where it can be rightfully assess . I know that in future the Justice Secretary will be able to do this in more instance . there be potential to strengthen support service for victim of antisocial behaviour , which be a devastating crime . it be not a victimless crime , and I know that people in Redditch find such crime very traumatic . even at this late stage , can the Minister assure I that the victim code and other measure will continue to protect victim of antisocial behaviour ? finally , stalk be an incredibly dangerous crime . it be often link to the most violent homicide of woman at the hand of man , and I note that the Public Bill Committee consider the role of stalk protection order and specialist support for stalk case . I hope the Minister can assure we that he be do everything in his power to ensure that victim of stalking receive the support they need . I welcome the measure in this Bill . it be vital that we continue to crack down on these type of crime in order to keep the public safe . I will restrict my remark to speak in favour of new clause 10 , which stand in my name , which would create a new sewage illness compensation scheme to allow anyone who have be make ill as a direct result of criminal conduct by water company to claim compensation . I be indebted to Surfers Against Sewage , whose recent report find that , between October 2022 and September 2023 , 1 , 924 water user report illness after be in the water . this be just a glimpse of the true number of unreported illness . the amendment call for these victim to receive some justice for the recklessness of water company and other polluter . it would ensure that the profit of water company pay for compensation for people who be make ill after bathe in water illegally contaminate by sewage . it would also make provision to pay for the medical evidence require to support a claim for compensation . of course , much of my motivation come from the fact that it be my privilege to speak for the community around the English Lake district . indeed , at first glance , the late windermere bathing water result be positive , as all site be class as excellent . we be also encourage by the progress make on Coniston become designate bathing water . yet , as the report show , 60 % of all sickness report be submit from bathing water judge to be excellent . this undermine people ' s confidence in the rating . community like mine , particularly those around windermere , rely on visitor come to enjoy the beautiful landscape , as well as for swimming and other water sport . even with the good rating possible , there will be a detrimental effect on people ' s livelihood in our community if a reputation be tarnish . the report cite Steve Crawford from Scarborough , who be force to close his surf shop for the whole summer because the water at South Bay beach be deem to be too poor in quality to surf in . Steve could not give any surfing lesson because no one would go into the sea . his livelihood be ruin by that sewage spill . in the past , the great north swim at windermere have be cancel because of algal bloom , and there be countless other story of business struggle to stay afloat as visitor number drop . the report show that when quality improve on beach , visitor number can rise by up to 52 % . in August this year , swimmer in the world triathlon championship series fall ill with E . coli after compete in the sea event off Roker beach in Sunderland . a chance for the world to see the UK as a sporting host be ruin by our inability to keep our water clean . the threat of sewage spill do last damage to the viability of many business but , more importantly , there be enormous personal damage to people ' s health and wellbeing . Peter , a visitor to windermere early this year , contract a campylobacter infection after swim in the lake . in the report , I refer to Robbie Bowman , who go into the sea in south Wales with a cut on his leg , which become infect by sewage in the water and he be hospitalise for a week . I also refer to Reuben , who have to give up his job as a teacher because he catch the incurable labyrinthitis after surf in sewage - infest water off Saunton beach in Devon . in my own community , swimmer have come forward with parasitic infection and Weil ' s disease in the past year . all of these shocking example of sewage in waterway cause illness point to the reality of what chief medical officer Chris Whitty call " a serious public health issue " . he be clear that the water company be not do enough , and that " where people swim or child play , they should not expect significant dose of human coliform if they ingest water " . he say it will inevitably require investment , but it be not just a question of money ; it need " preventive engineering , well sewer management , innovation , and commitment . " the amendment should be the first in a series of measure to force the water company to take responsibility for the decade of neglect they have oversee . some 7 . 5 million hour of sewage have be dump into our waterway over the last three year , and 450 , 000 hour of sewage have be dump into designate bathing water in England . what be the consequence ? the top water executive in England be pay £ 73 million , include £ 41 million in bonus , benefit and incentive . it be clear to anyone that these grotesque bonus and payout must be stop until there be sufficient investment in our sewage system , and result be consistently see in the improvement of the health of our sea , lake and river . in most industry , bonus be give out for do a good job . for the water boss , the opposite be clearly true and that must end . speak on behalf of community around windermere , Coniston and Ullswater , the river Eden , Kent and Aire , and all the other wonderful waterway it be my privilege to represent , this issue be deeply personal . we should deliver justice for victim and ensure that there be an incentive for the water company to clean up their act . I commend this amendment to the House . I commend the Minister for the excellent Bill and join Opposition Front Benchers in thank he for bring forward substantive amendment at this stage , rather than wait to bring they forward in the other place . this be a good Bill . I will focus on victim of violent sexual crime and talk to my new clause 41 , but first I will speak briefly in support of other amendment that I have sign . new clause 19 , propose by my right hon . friend the Member for Basingstoke ( Dame Maria Miller ) , provide for a presumption of non - disclosure of counselling record for victim of rape and sexual assault , and it make it clear , for the first time , that counselling be there to explore feeling , not as a source for reveal or investigate fact . four amendment be propose by the hon . member for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) : amendment 15 would include in the victim code a requirement to inform all victim of their right to access pre - trial therapy ; new clause 4 would place a statutory duty on the Parole Board to enable victim to make a personal statement ; new clause 5 would require the compilation of single core data set on victim of child sexual abuse , a crucial first step in promote consistency and enable a great degree of insight into that terrible crime ; and new clause 6 would require the Secretary of State to assess the adequacy of the number of independent domestic violence and sexual violence adviser . I do not normally support amendment that look for a report in six month , but in this case that be warrant to help give we , here in Parliament , confidence that the right priority be be afford to such victim . take together , the amendment propose by the hon . member for Rotherham would provide a significant strengthening of the right of victim of sexual violence . I hope that the Minister will reflect positively on her intention and our , because they have cross - party support , even if he be not minded to accept they today . give his early comment , I think he have some positive view about they . I hope that extend to my new clause 41 , which would , for the first time across the UK , provide for independent legal advice and representation for victim of rape and sexual assault . my new clause build on the finding from the scheme trialle in Northumbria , under the leadership of the police and crime commissioner Dame Vera Baird and Kim McGuinness . the finding demonstrate that a significant proportion of request for information for rape complainant ' private datum be excessive ; that those excessive request have a significant impact on the wellbeing of victim ; and that the legal guidance on the matter be not clearly understand , which lead to wide variation in approach . I believe a national version of the scheme , which could be create at reasonable cost to the taxpayer , would provide for great confidence for victim as they go through what can be a highly intrusive and painful evidence - gather process . there be international example — this path have be tread by other . there be guidance for it in Australia — in New South Wales — Ireland and , in total , in eight of 14 of the adversarial legal system . I strongly urge the Minister to look at way in which that could be put into the Bill . under my proposal , this access to independent legal advice would be provide to victim in six specify situation , so we be not create an open door or a difference that would occur in other case . that be important because decision about how credible the victim be deem to be be often what drive the decision to continue with a criminal case . that be not the case in many other source of crime . a national scheme provide victim of rape and sexual assault with independent legal advice and representation will ensure that victim ' right be respect where their interest diverge from those of the police , the CPS and other criminal agency . my new clause 41 would ensure that victim , where appropriate , have access to legal advice that will give they the confidence that all that be be seek be all that be need to enable a fair prosecution , and no more . the clause would provide a mechanism for accessibility and improve the quality , efficiency and consistency of investigation . I hope the Minister will look positively on this initiative . I rise to speak in respect of some of the amendment and new clause in part two : specifically , Government new clause 22 and 23 ; Government amendment 60 ; Government new clause 24 ; government amendment 76 to 82 ; and new clause 14 , introduce by my hon . friend the Member for Cardiff West ( Kevin Brennan ) on behalf of the Opposition , on the Hillsborough law duty of candour . if these new clause and amendment be agree to tonight , the Bill will be well than it be when it begin its life at Second Reading , and it will be well than it be even after it have be through a monumental Committee stage . however , the Minister will not be surprised to hear I say that it will not be perfect , and it will not be all that I hope for in my Public Advocate Bill or my Public Advocate ( no . 2 ) bill — I have be introduce such legislation since 2016 , and my hon . friend the noble Lord Wills have be introduce similar measure in the other place since 2014 — but it will be well than originally draft . I welcome the fact that the Minister have concede that the Independent Public Advocate will be establish as a stand appointment on a full - time basis . it be a shame that he have not see fit to go a little far to enable the family affect to be the people who call upon the public advocate to act , rather than the Secretary of State . one of the point of my legislation , and that introduce by my noble friend in the other place , be to give the family some agency — some power to act in the early stage of the aftermath of a public disaster and affect the way the aftermath be deal with . the whole purpose of the legislation that Lord Wills and I propose be to ensure that thing do not go wrong in the aftermath of public disaster , as they have do after Hillsborough and other disaster . one end up with year and year — sometimes decade and decade — of subsequent campaign , fight and proceeding , legal and otherwise , that end up cost society million and cost the family their health and often their life . stop thing go wrong in the immediate aftermath of disaster be a good aim for public policy . the change that the Minister have propose in the new clause will go some way to make the independent public advocate something well than it would have be — something more than simply a super - duper signposting service , and more like a person who can try to help the family stop thing go wrong — but more could be do in respect of the power of the public advocate . I still believe in that person have at least the power of a data controller , to ensure that if public authority be reluctant to produce document , there be some power to ensure that those document be produce . the Hillsborough independent report produce by Bishop James Jones show that it be transparency that lead to the truth come out 23 year after Hillsborough . that be what we seek to achieve at a much early stage in the aftermath of disaster . it be by provide agency for the family affect , through their collective ability to get the advocate to act ; the advocate have the power of a data controller ; and the power to have a Hillsborough independent panel - type process that we will stop thing go disastrously wrong soon than the Hillsborough independent panel could , because it take 23 year in that instance . we want it to happen much fast after subsequent disaster , which will be well for family , public authority and the Government , cheap for the taxpayer , and all in all a much well public policy approach to deal with those who be bereave in public disaster . I hope that the Minister will listen to what might be do to improve this part of the Bill even far . rise — order . after the next speaker , I be afraid I will have to reduce the time limit to four minute . at least member have be forewarn . I will speak to new clause 43 , but first I thank my right hon . friend the Member for Garston and Halewood ( Maria Eagle ) , who have fight tirelessly for that change and for so many more on behalf of victim . my constituent Chloe Ann Rutherford and Liam Thomas Allen Curry be murder in the Manchester Arena attack . in 2022 , after sit through the public inquiry and listen to every agonising detail of what their child go through , Chloe and Liam ' s parent be tell that they would be deny the right to register their child ' s death due to outdated legislation that state that , where death require an inquest or inquiry , death registration be to be do solely by the registrar . all those devoted parent want to do be to be part of that final official act for their precious child . after meet with the then Minister , we have assurance that he would look urgently at whether and how those change could be make . with each change of Minister , the promise continue , yet nothing have change . in February this year , the bereaved family attend another meeting with Ministers . in that meeting they be treat with contempt , patronise and insult . it become clear that they have be mislead by the Government for nearly a year , because despite it be entirely possible to change that law , the Government just do not want to do so . the current Minister suggest in Committee that I strengthen my amendment , so I do , but just last week he say that it be no long possible due to the Data Protection and Digital Information Bill , which will digitalise death registration . it feel like yet another excuse , because new clause 43 would give the Secretary of State the power to modify any provision , which would enable the clause to be shift to a digital state in future . Lisa , Chloe ' s mam , have speak to I about how they be tell at the outset that their beloved child do not belong to they but belong to the state . she say that , despite the rhetoric that we always hear about family come first , they simply do not . Caroline , Liam ' s mam , explain that register Liam ' s death would have allow she to begin grieve , and that if she could not do that for he , she would feel like she have fail he . she do not fail he ; it be the state that fail he . in June this year , Chloe and Liam ' s parent , after six agonising year , watch as their child ' s death be register by a stranger . Chloe ' s dad , Mark , say that " it wasn ' t the way we want this to be , because of our ridiculous government who only change law to benefit themselves . we have to watch a random person sign it and not her Mam & Dad " . they do not want anyone else to have to go through what they have go through . just last week , Caroline remind I that because she be remove from the process , Liam ' s name and date of birth be originally record wrongly . the Minister know that I think he be a fairly decent bloke , and he know that Chloe and Liam ' s family deserve well than that , and that family in the future will deserve well too . there be no moral or legal reason to keep on block the new clause , or this change . I be hopeful that he will continue to work with I on this , but I be sure that he understand how deeply disappointed I be , and how let down my constituent feel . I have a bit of a poorly chest , so if my voice go , that be the reason . I thank the Minister for the tone in which he introduce the debate and the change that he have table around domestic homicide review regardless of the reason why somebody die , whether that be suicide , sudden accidental fall or substance misuse and overdose . those be thing that we see all the time that could be put down to domestic abuse . I pay tribute to Jhiselle from the kill Women network , who have fight tirelessly for some justice for her sister Bianca , who fall from a tower block in Birmingham . nobody have ever pay the price for what happen to she . certainly she have not be , to date , allow a domestic homicide review ; we hope that that will change . obviously I be pleased to see the change on Jade ' s law . my right hon . friend the Member for Alyn and Deeside ( Mark Tami ) have work so hard , as have my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Camberwell and Peckham ( Ms Harman ) , who table the amendment on the need to carve out parental responsibility from those who be convict of child abuse . all child in this country be protect from be near a child abuser — a paedophile — apart from the abuser ' s own child . the other parent have to go through the family court process in order to keep their child safe . while I agree with both amendment , and fight very hard for Jade ' s law , the reality be that we can not keep carve out little bit where parental responsibility be gift . it be not just gifted , actually ; currently the family court in our country collude with perpetrator of violence and abuse to a degree that be frightening to anyone who have sit in on those proceeding , as I do regularly . the Government have have the outcome of the harm review for three year , and have be work towards another review . the presumption of contact for violent parent should not be on our statute book any more . we should not call for victim to fight again and again to keep their child and themselves safe , yet we do . I be afraid that I will point to another delay that the Minister have refer to : the delay on non - disclosure agreement . I know that he have to sit there and say that the Department for Business and Trade be work on it . well , I be sorry to say , " read it and weep , " because that be the answer we have be give for five year . for five year , since the recommendation to end the use of non - disclosure agreement in case of sexual harassment , the Government have repeatedly say , " we ' re look at it . " have they lose it ? where be they look ? look hard ! I want to make it clear that , while I welcome the Bill , there be gap in it around adult sexual exploitation . if you be a child who be sexually exploit — you might have be repeatedly rape from the age of 10 — from the day you turn 18 , suddenly the Government have no definition of you and no policy to do anything about you . that be problematic . this week , the Home Office have announce that it will bring forward emergency legislation on the Rwanda situation . where be our emergency legislation for the thing that we have wait year for , the thing that people have die wait for — include those in the infected blood inquiry ? if only we be the emergency . I start by thank the Minister . he have work cross party , particularly with I , to turn what be a good , well - intend Bill into something much well , although there be still a lot far to go . I be delighted that the Government have accept my argument that a victim do not have to report a crime to access support through the victim code , and therefore I will not press amendment 8 . there be victim who be not explicitly list , but who need recognition . that would be provide through my amendment 5 , 6 , 157 and 158 . when the definition of child sexual exploitation be introduce in 2009 , it genuinely transform service and people ' s understanding . we now need the same for both adult sexual exploitation and child criminal exploitation . it be bizarre to I that , as soon as someone turn 18 , sexual exploitation be see as their make poor lifestyle choice , rather than as grooming , coercion and abuse . likewise , child criminal exploitation be often unrecognised and the child be see as a perpetrator . at the very least , I hope the Minister will ensure that there be statutory definition of those crime in guidance . amendment 7 relate to child whose parent be paedophile . we need to ensure that those child be treat as secondary victim , in the same way that child bear of rape will be once the Bill pass . I urge the Minister to consider roll out a specialist type of idva , as Lincolnshire police be do so brilliantly . amendment 19 to 23 would ensure that there be also guidance for all specialist community - base service . eld abuse be often under - report . hourglass state that the elderly require specialist support due to the nature of the abuse , which often target their finance , and because they be often digitally exclude . my new clause 6 would require the Government to carry out an assessment of specialist support service across the country to end the postcode lottery . amendment 4 , 17 and 18 would include stalk in the Bill . give that there be 1 . 5 million stalk victim in 2021 , it be imperative that they have advocate . the Suzy Lamplugh Trust have show that victim not support by advocate have a one in 1 , 000 chance of their perpetrator be convict , compare with one in four if they have a stalk advocate . my hon . friend be make a powerful case for stalk advocate . do she also agree that now be the time for a stalk register , to stop this crime in its track ? I absolutely agree with my hon . friend , who I know have table amendment on that point . we need to do much more about stalk . one in five referral through the national referral mechanism in 2022 be for a british child . it be essential that we get the support for that group of victim right and that we improve support for all victim of modern slavery , which be why I have table amendment 16 , support by the Centre for Social Justice . clause 12 be positive , but as draft it will fail to fully meet the need of victim and survivor . amendment 149 seek to address that . another concern be that the Bill will not fully support all migrant victim , especially those face domestic abuse . many victim and survivor with insecure immigration status do not report to the police for fear that their information will be pass to immigration enforcement . and that fear be not unfounded : the Domestic Abuse Commissioner recently publish Home Office datum show that every single police force in England and Wales have share datum of a victim of domestic abuse with immigration enforcement over a three - year period . to protect migrant victim and survivor , as well as the general public , we need to implement a data - share firewall that ban statutory service from share the datum of a victim with the Home Office . my new clause 36 seek to do that . I have work with Southall Black Sisters to develop new clause 8 so that all those with no recourse to public fund can be guarantee access to support . the Government must extend the domestic violence indefinite leave to remain and the destitution domestic violence concession model for those on partner and spousal visa to all migrant victim of domestic abuse , regardless of their immigration status . what use be a victim code if people can not access it ? that be another thing I really want the Minister to address . the code need to be accessible to all , especially those who be deaf , disabled or visually impaired or who do not speak English as their first language . my amendment 10 and 11 and new clause 7 will make sure that accessibility be prioritise . I have have too many constituent who , despite sign up to the victim contact scheme , be not tell the information they need . new clause 4 seek to address that . finally , I have work with the charity Hundred Families on amendment 9 and 12 , which would allow victim to access information from the NHS as well as court , bring parity between the court and mental health tribunal . I rise to speak in support of new clause 27 , and I hope that Conservative Members will support it tonight . I pay tribute to my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) , who table the new clause , for her immense and tireless campaign with group that support the victim of the contaminated blood scandal , who have be so badly let down for so many year and have have to fight so hard every step of the way . today be another one of those day . Sir Brian Langstaff have already make his recommendation on compensation and say that a scheme should be set up as soon as possible before the infect blood inquiry report . he have be crystal clear that there be nothing to wait for . new clause 27 would establish a body to make compensation payment to those who be infect and affect . as other hon . member have say , the Government be rightly make payment to the victim of the Post Office Horizon scandal before the final report of that public inquiry , so we should do the same here . with one victim of the contaminated blood scandal die on average every four day , it be expect that a further 22 victim will not live long enough to see the inquiry ' s full report publish . these people can not wait any long for the justice that too many have already be deny . we should vote for they tonight , and for those exclude from interim payment , include parent and family such as the Smiths from my constituency , who lose Colin , age just seven , to AIDS and hepatitis C . I have tell Colin ' s story often during my time in this place , and his father speak about he very movingly on the " Today " programme just this morning . I pay tribute to Colin ' s parent ; I just do not understand how they continue to do it . as a baby , Colin be infect with factor viii blood product from source in an Arkansas prison , something his family have to fight to disclose . the family face loss of employment , bullying , abuse and discrimination every step of the way , at a time when they have lose their beloved son , infect by the NHS . they have to fight every step of the way while watch the friend they meet during the campaign die along the way . the family keep tell these story , and they have to do so . we need to hear from they , because the Government must remember why they have to act . I say that also for Linda Ashcroft , who lose her husband Bill . after 33 year , she need closure . the Government have accept the moral case for compensation , but time be of the essence and the continued wait for redress just add to the layer of pain , frustration and injustice that the infected and affected feel . the Government must stop drag their foot . this group of people have have more than enough experience of waiting ; it have be 40 year since information about the danger of contaminate blood be publish . the good tribute we can pay they be to make sure that there be no more delay . I hope we can do what be right today . rise — Order . I be afraid that after the next speaker there will still be 10 people wait to speak . we have to finish this section of proceeding at 8 . 50 pm in order to allow for the wind - up , so , after the next speech , the limit will be three minute . I associate myself with the amendment in the name of the right hon . member for Basingstoke ( Dame Maria Miller ) , my right hon . friend the Members for Alyn and Deeside ( Mark Tami ) and for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) , my hon . friend the Member for South Shields ( Mrs Lewell - Buck ) and , of course , my incomparable hon . friend the Member for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) . in the time available to I , I will focus on the three amendment that I have table to flag issue with the Government . amendment 147 be about vicarious trauma . we be in a perverse situation right now — the Minister know this — where we have to hope that a victim die if we be to access support for our community when traumatic thing such as stabbing happen . I hope that the Minister will change that so that every child can be support . amendment 148 be about overseas victim . it would simply restore the right that our constituent have when we be member of the European Union to have their right as a victim uphold if they or a family member be a victim of crime overseas . I hope that the Minister will look at the victim ' right directive , because so many people experience that . new clause 32 be about a victim ' s right in relation to datum . I be not sure that I would be able to table the new clause , because the court case that it refer be hear last Thursday . a year ago , a man start email my office with his concern about my politic and the issue that I be work on . like all member when we get correspondence from non - constituent , I read the email and file they but do not respond . I be then call by my local social service because that man have decide that , because he disagree with my view , I be not a fit mother for my child . he have report I , an investigation have take place , and while it clear I , my child and I now have a social service record . when I go to the police about the matter , they say that he have a right to express his opinion in that way . I challenge it because , due to my work on stalk , I understand that somebody who could use a malicious report to harm someone be clearly dangerous . when I come forward , further report come out reveal that this man have continue his campaign of harassment . I be deeply grateful for the cross - party support for new clause 32 , because although that man have now be convict of harassment , his ability to target my family continue because the record continue . at present , there be no way of remove from someone ' s record a clearly malicious and false accusation make to a third - party organisation . in table the new clause , I recognise that it be not just those of we in the public eye who may be target in this way ; in many case of stalking , we see people who fixate and use reporting mechanism to damage their victim . I have have no support or help from Parliament or anybody within the parliamentary process for my welfare or that of my child , but now I want to stand up for everybody who have be through this process . I ask the Minister to look at this , because victim of clearly malicious report must have the opportunity to have the record correct . too often , people will say , " there be no smoke without fire . " I want to stand up for safeguarding — it be clearly a very important process — but if a court recognise that a report be malicious and a victim be be target but we can not act to remove that report , the harassment will continue . I pay tribute to my hon . friend for use a personal case to speak so powerfully . I know that she do so from a position of want to change thing for people who do not have the platform that she have . I commend she for that . I thank my hon . friend for that , and yes , the new clause would go much far than tackle the abuse of people in the public eye . I hope that , in other legislation , we will look seriously at what we can do about those who target our family and staff member as a way of intimidate we , because that be not free speech ; it be a way of silence people . in table the new clause , I hope also to speak up for those who have be target through third - party organisation . I know that there be colleague in the other place who wish to take up that matter up . I hope that cross - party support continue and that the Minister will consider the proposal , which have already secure the support of London ' s Victims ' Commissioner . I apologise to the House for not be able to bring they forward before , but I hope that member can understand why . I hope that we send a message today . many of we do not block people , and many of we engage in robust parliamentary debate , but surely there be a line not to be cross . that line be our child , our family and our staff , who do not ask to be put in harm ' s way but will be if we do not act to protect our democracy and protect ourselves from those who would seek to use third - party mechanism to abuse . it be an honour to follow the hon . member for Walthamstow ( Stella Creasy ) , to whom I pay tribute for her bravery in speak to we about the horror that be visit on she . it defy belief . I will focus later in my remark on my new clause 28 and 29 , but first I will express support for new clause 10 , table by the hon . member for Westmorland and Lonsdale ( Tim Farron ) , and new clause 27 in the name of the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) . new clause 27 in particular have and deserve a great deal of support . over the past few year , many of we have sit through seemingly endless debate that seem never to make the progress that the people affect by the infected blood scandal deserve . all I ask be that the Government implement the recommendation of the interim report . for an awful lot of people who have suffer far too much already , that do not seem an awful lot to ask . I will not seek a division on my new clause 28 and 29 , but I hope that the Government will take into account the issue that they address . they follow on from the landmark Domestic Abuse Act 2021 and concern the epidemic of violence against woman and girl that we still face in this country . our first Domestic Abuse Commissioner be do a fantastic job , and I table my new clause follow a number of discussion with she . new clause 28 would make it easy for migrant woman to make a complaint about domestic abuse without fear that their safety or future in this country be at risk . we have a damn report early this year about the culture of sexism and misogyny in our large and most high - profile police force , the Met . it be difficult for woman to come forward . new clause 29 would create an obligation on those in specific role in the police and criminal justice system to undergo mandatory training in respect of violence against woman , to ensure that they understand it . those new clause would not fix everything in the Bill — a Bill that I think everyone in the House largely welcome — but they would be a big step towards fill some of the gap and allow woman once again to trust the authority on which they depend for their safety . may I start by say how disappointing it be that a Bill with so much potential to be a force for good should ultimately end in three - minute speech by member who have huge contribution to make ? the timetabling really want look at . it let victim down , because , as I say early , there be so much in the Bill that people who understand this sector have seek to add . the breadth of the amendment demonstrate powerfully how much more there be to be do . I support many of the amendment , but give the time that we have , I will confine my remark predominantly to amendment 4 , 17 and 18 , and to new clause 6 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) and other , pertain to the role that stalk advocate can play and the need for they to have recognise status in the Bill , as independent sexual violence and domestic violence advocate do . on 18 June 2021 , people in Chesterfield and right across the country be shock and appal by the murder of 23 - year - old Gracie Spinks . that grief quickly turn to anger and despair when it become clear that she have be murder by a man with whom she have previously work , who have be stalk she and whom she have report to the police . follow the internal investigation into how Derbyshire Constabulary have handle that case , it have subsequently take on a stalk advocate to try to ensure that stalk victim be hear . gracie ' s family have launch the Gracie ' s law campaign to call for all police force to fund a stalk co - ordinator and stalk advocate . they also say that all officer should regularly have their training sign off and renew , so that service become more consistent across the country . the amendment table by my hon . friend the Member for Rotherham , which be support by the Suzy Lamplugh Trust , be important in this regard . they add the word " independent stalk advocate " to the list of specialist advocate that the Secretary of State must issue guidance about , alongside isva and isda , and define what a stalk advocate be . those amendment be so important because , for many victim of stalk , it be often the case that the stalking fall some way short of the threshold for police intervention . only by ensure that a case have be look at by a specialist officer can we make sure that intervention happen soon , prevent it from reach the tragic and appalling conclusion that it do in Gracie ' s case . I can not see any argument for include isda and isva on the face of the Bill , but not stalk advocate . stalker be often not know to the victim , and the threat they pose be different from that pose in a case of domestic violence . finally , new clause 6 be a very important clause , because we know there be an inconsistency of approach between different police force , and stalk advocate can not always get the funding they need . as co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group on domestic violence and abuse , I will concentrate my remark on amendment and new clause relate to domestic abuse . I recognise that there have be some progress on domestic abuse , but survivor be be fail by the criminal justice system . repeatedly say that tackle domestic abuse be a priority do not mean that it be a priority . survivor deserve much more than posturing and rhetoric ; in fact , virtue signal at the same time as fail we become a form of gaslighte in and of itself . urgent and immediate action be overdue . all too often , survivor do not have faith in the system that be mean to protect and support they . the situation for black , asian and minoritise woman be even more dire , as they be disproportionately victim of violence against woman and girl , yet also experience poor outcome in access to justice and support . as such , my new clause 35 would compel the Secretary of State to conduct a review into the experience of victim of domestic abuse in the criminal justice system . survivor of domestic abuse currently face overwhelming barrier to justice : we be routinely subject to double standard and outright misogyny in policing , sentencing and imprisonment . I have first - hand experience of the fact that court be even use by abuser to perpetuate abuse . Police force share migrant victim ' datum with immigration enforcement , which stop migrant from report to the police and other out of fear that they will be treat as offender themselves , face potential criminalisation , detention and even deportation . I therefore support new clause 30 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) , which would ensure that the personal datum of a victim of a crime be not use for any immigration control purpose without the consent of that person . in fact , I believe we need a firewall between all public service and the Home Office , so that every survivor can report abuse and access justice and safety , and perpetrator can not evade justice . recovery be an essential part of justice ; the funding of service can mean the difference between life and death , hope and despair , and imprisonment and empowerment . my new clause 34 would compel the Secretary of State to conduct a review into the level of funding and provision for domestic abuse service , consider both counselling and advocacy service and refuge . in light of the impact of the cost of live crisis on domestic abuse survivor , urgent change to housing , health and social security system be also need , and I urge the Government to support new clause 8 , which would ensure that victim of domestic abuse who do not have recourse to public fund be still entitle to be support . I urge they to choose to properly reform the criminal justice system , fund specialist service , and ensure that the social security system be there for people when need . Diolch yn fawr , Mr Deputy Speaker ; it be a pleasure to contribute to this debate . I rise to speak to my new clause 33 , a probe amendment base on concern I express on Second reading about the Victims ' Commissioner lack enforcement power , undermine their ability to protect victim . the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Cardiff West ( Kevin Brennan ) , make similar comment during his contribution . I welcome the fact that Baroness Newlove have be appoint as Victims Commissioner — that be a step forward from where we be on Second Reading . I hope she have have the opportunity to influence the Bill before today ' s debate . on Second Reading , I talk about my constituent , the family of the murder Mike o ' Leary . since Mike ' s death , the family have become avid campaigner for victim ' right , and the main thing they consider be miss from this much - await Bill be the enforcement power that would give the Victims ' commissioner some tooth . the murder of Mr O ' Leary be a particularly heinous crime — his body be desecrate — and I look forward to the Sentencing Bill on Wednesday , when we will have an opportunity to discuss whether a new crime should be introduce and whether sentence guideline should be amend to reflect the extra suffering of the bereaved family . Baroness Newlove , in her response to the King ' s Speech in the other place , mention a sobering survey that her office do on victim ' experience of the criminal justice system . of the 500 people survey , 71 % be dissatisfied with the approach of the police to the crime they experience , 34 % say they would not report another crime , less than 29 % be aware of the victim code , only 29 % be offer the opportunity to make a victim ' s personal statement and only 8 % be confident that they receive justice by report a crime . if the aim of the Bill be to bring victim ' experience into the heart of the criminal justice system , it have its work cut out . the commissioner should be the key role for drive the change that be need . on Second Reading , I point out the power of the Welsh Language Commissioner under the term of the Welsh Language ( Wales ) measure 2011 , introduce by the Welsh Government . the Welsh Language Commissioner ' s enforcement power range from offer advice and training to require an organisation to prepare a plan to prevent further continuation or repetition of the failure , require an organisation to take concrete step to prevent further failure , publicise the failure of an organisation to comply with the measure and impose a civil penalty of up to £ 5 , 000 . empower the Victims ' Commissioner along the line of the enforcement power of other commissioner would considerably strengthen the hand of victim and help transform the criminal justice system so that victim be at its centre . I hope the other place may take up my new clause in its deliberation . I rise to speak to new clause 1 , and new clause 2 and 3 in my name . when we talk about victim , it be important that we also discuss take responsibility for the victim of Parliament ' s activity , and some of the victim of Parliament ' s activity be the IPP — imprisonment for public protection — prisoner . the hon . member for Bromley and Chislehurst ( Sir Robert Neill ) have campaign on this matter for year , and the Justice Committee have undertake detailed investigation and report , which I think we need to take more seriously in this House because of the urgency of the matter . there be nearly 3 , 000 ipp prisoner still in prison . they be in prison under legislation pass in this House by David Blunkett , who now recognise that there be an injustice — there have be a miscarriage of justice — and be appeal to we to correct that injustice by legislate now . there be example after example of people who have go to prison on small tariff . Martin Myers be sentence on an 18 - month tariff , and he have serve 17 year . Wayne Bell have serve 16 year on a two - year tariff , and Aaron Graham have serve 18 year on a three - year tariff . this be Kafkaesque . these people have commit relatively minor offence , but be trap within the prison system and can not get out . it therefore behove we to address this issue , which be why the Justice Committee undertake the review and bring forward not a policy of release these prisoner without protection and security , or whatever , but of re - sentencing , with special expertise bring in to assess each prisoner and see whether it be safe at least to give they a determinate sentence so as to give they some hope . that be the problem here : we have lose 88 of these prisoner through suicide because they have no hope . if we listen to the Prison Officers Association , the Prison Reform Trust , Amnesty , Liberty and the family , we can understand why , because it be not just the prisoner who be serve these sentence , but their family . what have we find in the last year ? we have lose another eight prisoner who have commit suicide , with 1 , 600 self - harm incident among this group of prisoner over the last 12 month . what we need to do now be to take forward the hon . member ' s proposal , and if the Government be not satisfied with they at the moment , let we work on they until the Bill go to the House of Lords and see what we can do in the other place . in addition to that , I have put forward minor amendment say that we should at least offer such prisoner — those inside , but also those on licence — advocacy and mentor so that they can prepare themselves properly for resettlement and release from prison , but also so that when they be outside they be not recall , as they be at scale at the moment . I rise to speak to amendment 26 , which I table . it be support by hon . member across the House and would enable victim to request a transcript of court proceeding free of charge , as that would be a huge step towards improve the transparency and accessibility of our justice system . in 2020 , my constituent Juliana Terlizzi be drug and rape in her sleep by she then partner . two year later , Juliana ' s attacker be finally convict , but she can barely remember what be say in the courtroom due to trauma and emotional distress . follow the trial , she be advise by a therapist to apply for a transcript of proceeding to allow she to revisit and process what be say in court . her application for a free copy of the transcript be reject , and she be then quote an astonishing £ 7 , 500 by one of the private company outsource by the Government to produce transcript . I soon discover that Juliana ' s extortionate quote be not an isolated case . other victim have face fee of up to £ 22 , 000 . how can anyone be expect to pay such a fee ? court transcript should not be a luxury that only a few victim can afford ; they be a vital tool in aid victim ' recovery . as victim and bereaved family do not routinely attend trial , transcript be often the only mean available to they to establish exactly what happen in the courtroom . I secure an Adjournment debate on the cost of court transcript last month . during the debate , I be pleased to hear the Under - Secretary of State for Justice , the hon . member for Finchley and Golders Green ( Mike Freer ) affirm the Government ' s commitment to the principle that justice must be open and transparent , and I welcome his comment regard the work that official within the Ministry of Justice be do to improve access to court transcript . I welcome the Minister ' s open remark commit to a trial of make sentencing remark available free of charge . however , it be important to establish that we still need full transcript to be available , so that victim can have the context within which those sentencing remark be make . the importance of access to transcript have be emphasise by the Victims ' Commissioner , the Justice Committee , charity such as Rape Crisis , Refuge , and support after murder and Manslaughter , and dozen of hon . member from six different party across the House . there be step the Government could and should be take to reduce cost , such as utilise new technology and assess the value for money of contract hold with transcription service . I have repeatedly raise the idea to Government of enable victim to request an audio file of court proceeding . that would be a low - cost solution to improve transparency and ensure that victim can access a record of court proceeding . I welcome the commitment of the Under - Secretary of State for Justice in that Adjournment debate , and in write correspondence to I , that he will look in great detail at that issue . above all , victim and bereaved family need access to full , accurate transcript of court proceeding at no cost to themselves . anything less will be an injustice . I urge Ministers in the Ministry of Justice to listen to the concern of victim , and to look more closely at what far can be do to tackle the injustice face by victim . I thank the Minister for what he say about consultation on the victim code . it be important that we get this right , and I trust that he will be attentive to amendment 145 and 146 , table by I and other hon . member . Declan Curran be just 14 year old when he take his life for not be able to access pre - trial therapy . his abuser be eventually sentence to two year and serve just one . since then his brother , Kev Curran , have take up the campaign to ensure that all child can access pre - trial therapy , and that be why I stand in this House today . the challenge around access to pre - trial therapy continue , despite new CPS guidance from 2023 that remove previous restriction to access therapy , as identify by the Home Office - fund Bluestar Project . the wait for court access be extensive . it be often 18 month on average , but it can go beyond three year for a child . Pre - trial therapy service be a specialism that be currently massively overstretched and inconsistent . my amendment would involve training to ensure that service could be expedite judiciously by the CPS , the police , and other people . currently , there be no trust that information will not be pass on to a trial , so therapist be concerned that the note they make , and the therapy they provide , could cause a case to collapse . we need absolute clarity within training to ensure that more than just a video be provide , that in - person training be robust so that there can be a reasonable line of inquiry , and that all those involve be properly train with regard to limitation on the information that be provide to court on content and delivery . secondly , there be not enough availability of pre - trial therapy and support . amendment 146 would ensure that child survivor access therapeutic service . I ask that that be within a month of request these service , that they be make aware of the support they be entitle to , that there be minimum standard on the quality of support and that this support should continue throughout the criminal justice process , but also after that process have be complete . I again urge the Minister to look carefully at the amendment I have table to ensure that all child survivor can access justice and the vital therapeutic intervention to help they through the criminal justice process and beyond . first , I commend the hon . member for Bromley and Chislehurst ( Sir Robert Neill ) on his amendment . if he decide to push it to a vote , I will certainly support he , because it be important that we have a justice system to be proud of . in Northern Ireland , we have an indeterminate custodial sentence , although it be slightly different . I be a strong believer in just punishment , and that be no secret . I have an issue with people be let back into society when , to some extent , they still pose some risk . the Minister have give we some assurance , which I be glad to get , but there be a clear difference between a petty crime and a sexual predator who may have serve time , but be still potentially a risk to the general public . I be aware that there be nine self - inflict death of people with sentence of imprisonment for public protection in 2022 , and a freedom of information request this year have indicate that this year there have be a further seven . we look to the MOJ for a new action plan that work . our main objective and focus be that victim be not let down , and that criminal be not let out into the public domain should they pose any type of harm or risk to people . I look forward to hear far from the Minister , and I sincerely hope that this conversation can be extend to the Department of Justice in Northern Ireland , too . I also want to speak to new clause 27 . I commend the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) on her dedicated and committed plan , which we be support . I hope tonight that we can agree that measure . what bug I , and probably the right hon . Lady , too , be that the Government be rightly make payment to the victim of the Post Office Horizon scandal before the final report of that public inquiry be publish . an independent inquiry into the infected blood scandal be due to publish its final report this autumn , but that document will now be publish in March 2024 . I be incredulous that we be let this go any far . if the Government be commit to help those affect by the Post Office Horizon scandal , they should do the same for those affect by the contaminated blood scandal . that be what the right hon . Lady be ask for , and it be what I want , too . to leave such decision until March 2024 be disgraceful . one fact that always seem to be prominent be the number of people who have sadly pass away . I ask a question about that last week . one person affect by this scandal die every four day , and I be greatly concerned that we will not have answer on that . have the Minister have an opportunity to speak to the Department of Health back home on ensure that victim from Northern Ireland can access compensation in the absence of an Assembly ? in my estimation , 100 victim in Northern Ireland have have no word whatsoever . they be wait in this never - never land where they can not get any help at all . the main priority be urgency . how much long can we expect victim and their family to wait ? the second stage of the inquiry state that the scheme should be set up now and begin work this year . who be we in this House to delay it any long ? I commend the right hon . Lady , and I hope we push this amendment tonight and win it . I be sad to say that I have have several constituent approach I about the conduct of individual police officer on case of violence against woman and girl . that include grossly inappropriate language , such as say that one perpetrator of rape have a " reasonable expectation of consent " after drug and assault my constituent to a point of significant bloodshed . I will not be more specific on individual case , but I do not believe my constituent ' experience be unique to Somerset . Operation Soteria Bluestone be pioneer in Avon and somerset police , and feature groundbreake collaboration between criminologist and police officer , and I be pleased to meet member of the team on Friday to discuss their work . I speak in this place after the King ' s Speech call for Operation Soteria Bluestone to be properly fund and extend to all police force , with a particular focus on educate officer . simple number in uniform be not enough without thorough vetting and training , ensure that all officer respond to victim and handling investigation do not perpetuate rape myth , accentuate victim trauma and mishandle evidence . my constituent must have the confidence that police and judicial officer have receive thorough and appropriate training , and that they will be treat with due respect and regard by our justice apparatus in the most traumatic moment of their life . I therefore urge the Government to back new clause 29 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh West ( Christine Jardine ) , and to support liberal Democrat policy to improve community trust in police , to create the pipeline of trust by educate police officer , and to fund more community police officer by cut police and crime commissioner . before I close , I would like to talk briefly about new clause 10 , which be table by my hon . friend the Member for Westmorland and Lonsdale ( Tim Farron ) . I be concern , but not shock , to see in the Environment Agency report a large rise in the number of bathing water site rate as poor quality . it show the real impact that the Government ' s neglect of poor behaviour by water firm have have on our health and wellbeing . our precious river and water bring a multitude of health benefit , as I see in my own constituency , where the wild swimming site in Farleigh Hungerford attract many swimmer , and Vobster Quay , an inland diving and swimming centre , also bring the same benefit . I know that my constituent will be devastate to lose such an important cultural asset . I therefore support this vital new clause , which will help hold negligent water firm to account and provide compensation to those who have suffer illness as a direct result of criminal conduct in relation to sewage , and I urge the Government to do the same . with the leave of the House , I call the Minister to wind up the debate . it be a pleasure to bring this debate on the Victims and Prisoners Bill Report stage to a close . I be particularly grateful for the co - operative and constructive spirit in which the debate have take place , and for the broad support receive for the Bill so far . give the number of contribution that have be make , I will endeavour to cover they thematically . I be afraid I will be brief , and I apologise to any right hon . and hon . member whose contribution I do not address directly . the hon . member for Walthamstow ( Stella Creasy ) speak with considerable and typical courage , and in she typically forthright way . I say to she that I and the appropriate Minister will be happy to have further discussion with she on the issue she raise . the hon . member for Chesterfield ( Mr Perkins ) and for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) talk about stalk in the context of Gracie Spinks . as a fellow east midland Member of Parliament , I be very familiar with that case ; we see update on it regularly on " East midland Today " . the hon . member for Chesterfield highlight the recent work and publication by the Suzy Lamplugh Trust , which we will look at very carefully . I know that the Minister for victim , my hon . friend the Member for Newbury ( Laura Farris ) , will look carefully at what be contain in the report . my right hon . friend the Member for Basingstoke ( Dame Maria Miller ) raise the issue of non - disclosure agreement . we be sympathetic to the concern raise and will be carefully consider with the Department for Business and Trade how good to take this forward , include consider legislation . we will provide an update in the new year . the duty of candour be raise by the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Cardiff West ( Kevin Brennan ) , and I be grateful for his typically reasonable tone throughout his contribution . the full position on the duty of candour will be set out shortly in an oral statement set out the Government ' s response to Bishop James Jones ' s report . to respect the process , we can not pre - empt that statement prior to it take place on Wednesday . however , the Criminal Justice Bill , which be before the House already , include an organisational duty of candour aim at chief officer of police , make they responsible for ensure that individual within their remit act appropriately and with candour . we believe that that legislative vehicle , and that legislation , be the right place for that important debate to take place . my hon . friend the Member for North East Bedfordshire ( Richard Fuller ) and the shadow Minister talk about free legal advice for victim of rape . the Law Commission be currently consider the merit of independent legal advice as part of its wide review on the use of evidence in sexual offence prosecution . this be an important issue , but we believe that we should receive and consider the finding of that extensive piece of work before commit to further action . I turn now to amendment 142 to 144 and new clause 27 and 42 . I be grateful to the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) and the shadow Minister for raise this extremely important topic . the infected blood scandal should never have happen . my thought , and I believe those of the whole House , remain with those impact by this appalling tragedy . I confirm on behalf of the Cabinet Office , which be the lead Department , that the Minister for the Cabinet Office will make a statement ahead of the House rise for Christmas on Government progress on the infected blood inquiry , and that we will commit to update Parliament with an oral statement on next step within 25 sit day of the final report be publish . we have study carefully the proposal make by the right hon . Lady , which be support widely across the House . the Government , as she say , have already accept the moral case for compensation , and we be grateful for the work of Sir Brian Langstaff . we have great sympathy with new clause 27 and the intention to ensure that the legal groundwork be in place to enable a delivery body to be establish . I therefore confirm that , when the Bill reach the Lords , we will bring forward our own amendment , which will put in place the necessary legislative framework and timescale for a delivery body for compensation for the victim of infected blood to be establish , in line with the overall objective set out in her new clause . that will ensure that the Government can move quickly , as soon as the inquiry report . I turn to IPP prisoner . while I appreciate that the Chair of the Justice Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Bromley and Chislehurst ( Sir Robert Neill ) , would wish we to go far with resentencing , I believe that we have make considerable progress in what we have set out to the House . I have listen to what have be say by Front - Bench Members on both side , but they will have hear what be say by Back - Bench Members and the strength of feeling that more need to be do . before the Bill go to the Lords , where this matter will certainly be raise , will the Minister meet I and other concerned member to discuss further way in which we may find a formula that will take this measure far forward ? I be grateful to my hon . friend . we will listen carefully to what their noble lordship say when the matter come before they , but I be always happy to meet he to discuss this matter and other . amendment 28 and new clause 10 would include people who have suffer harm as a direct result of criminal conduct relate to sewage and waste water in the definition of a victim , and introduce a sewage illness compensation scheme . let I be clear that the Government and the Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , as the lead Minister , take the issue of water quality extremely seriously , and sewage be discharge into our waterway be completely unacceptable . that be why we be the first Government to take such significant action on this issue , with record fine , new power to hold water company to account and the large investment programme in water company history to tackle overflow once and for all , total £ 60 billion . we understand that criminal conduct relate to sewage and waste water can have a significant impact on individual . where individual have be impact by water quality or suffer harm , they will be able to access support service where the issue fit the eligibility criterion . I reassure the hon . member for Westmorland and Lonsdale ( Tim Farron ) — we may not always agree , but he know that I have a lot of respect for he as a Member of this House — that there be exist route for individual who suffer harm as a result of criminal conduct to seek compensation where there be evidence of personal injury , loss or damage . those can be pursue through criminal proceeding , where a compensation order can be seek , or through separate civil proceeding through our legal system . water company must not profit from environmental damage . that be why the Government support Ofwat ' s new rule on water company dividend and bonus so that consumer bill never reward pollution . I turn briefly to antisocial behaviour . I , like everyone else , recognise the significant impact that persistent antisocial behaviour can have on individual and whole community . we be commit to support the victim . that be why we be bring forward a number of important measure through the Criminal Justice Bill , introduce to the House on 14 November , to tackle the core concern raise in this Bill ' s Committee . we consider that the good and most appropriate vehicle in which they can be consider . finally , new clause 43 table by the hon . member for South Shields ( Mrs Lewell - Buck ) would give relative the ability to register the death of their love one follow a major incident . as she set out , the propose change to digitise death registration would mean that the approach adopt of a signature , which we have discuss , would not necessarily work . we can not support the new clause as draft , but we be incredibly sympathetic to its purpose . I can confirm that the Government intend to launch a full public consultation on the role of the bereaved in death registration follow an inquest , include those impact by a major disaster . I look forward to work with she and the family who have be so dreadfully impact in the past . I be grateful to all member for their positive contribution . debate interrupt ( Programme Order , 15 May ) . the Deputy Speaker put forthwith the question already propose from the Chair ( Standing Order no . 83e ) , that the clause be read a second time . question agree to . new clause 20 accordingly read a second time , and add to the Bill . the Deputy Speaker then put forthwith the Questions necessary for the disposal of the business to be conclude at that time ( Standing Order no . 83e ) . New Clause 21 - information relate to victim : service police etc " after section 44e of the Police , Crime , Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 ( insert by section 22 of this Act ) , insert — " 44F Application of this chapter to service police etc ( 1 ) this chapter apply in relation to a person mention in subsection ( 2 ) as it apply in relation to an authorised person , with the modification specify in subsection ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) . ( 2 ) the person be — ( a ) a member of the Royal Navy Police , the Royal Military Police or the Royal Air Force Police ; ( b ) a person designate by the Service Police Complaints Commissioner under regulation 36 ( 2 ) of the Service Police ( complaint etc ) Regulations 2023 ( s . I . 2023 / 624 ) ; ( c ) a person who have be engage to provide service consist of or include the obtaining of information for the purpose of the exercise of function by a person mention in paragraph ( a ) or ( b ) . ( 3 ) Section 44A apply as if for subsection ( 4 ) there be substitute — " ( 4 ) the reference in subsection ( 3 ) ( c ) to crime be a reference to conduct which constitute one or more — ( a ) service offence within the meaning of the Armed Forces Act 2006 , or ( b ) SDA offence within the meaning of the Armed Forces Act 2006 ( Transitional Provisions etc ) order 2009 ( S . I . 2009 / 1059 ) . " ( 4 ) section 44b apply as if , in subsection ( 6 ) — ( a ) for the definition of " adult without capacity " there be substitute — " " adult without capacity " — ( a ) in relation to England and Wales , mean an adult who , within the meaning of the Mental Capacity Act 2005 , lack capacity in relation to a notice under this section ; ( b ) in relation to Scotland , mean an adult ( within the meaning of this chapter ) who be incapable , within the meaning of the adult with Incapacity ( Scotland ) Act 2000 , in relation to a notice under this section ; ( c ) in relation to Northern Ireland , mean an adult who , within the meaning of the Mental Capacity Act ( Northern Ireland ) 2016 , lack capacity in relation to a notice under this section ; " ; ( b ) for the definition of " relevant authority " there be substitute — " " relevant authority " — ( a ) in relation to England , mean a county council , a district council for an area for which there be no county council , a London borough council or the Common Council of the City of London in its capacity as a local authority ; ( b ) in relation to Wales , mean a county council or a county borough council ; ( c ) in relation to Scotland , mean a council constitute under section 2 of the Local Government etc ( Scotland ) Act 1994 ; ( d ) in relation to Northern Ireland , mean an authority within the meaning of the Children ( Northern Ireland ) Order 1995 ( S . I . 1995 / 755 ( N . I . 2 ) ) ; " ; ( c ) for the definition of " voluntary organisation " there be substitute — " " voluntary organisation " — ( a ) in relation to England and Wales , have the same meaning as in the Children Act 1989 ; ( b ) in relation to Scotland , have the same meaning as in Part 2 of the Children ( Scotland ) Act 1995 ; ( c ) in relation to Northern Ireland , have the same meaning as in the Children ( Northern Ireland ) Order 1995 . " " " — ( Edward Argar . ) this new clause , to be insert after clause 22 , provide for that clause to apply with modification in the case of request for information about victim of crime make by or on behalf of service police or the Service Police Complaints Commissioner . bring up , and add to the Bill . New Clause 22 - mean of " major incident " etc " ( 1 ) this Part concern advocate for victim of major incident . ( 2 ) in this Part , " major incident " mean an incident that — ( a ) occur in England or Wales after this section come into force , ( b ) cause the death of , or serious harm to , a significant number of individual , and ( c ) be declare in writing by the Secretary of State to be a major incident for the purpose of this Part . ( 3 ) for the purpose of this Part , " harm " include physical , mental or emotional harm . ( 4 ) in this part , " victim " , in relation to a major incident , mean — ( a ) individual who have suffer harm as a direct result of the incident ( whether or not that harm be serious harm ) , and ( b ) close family member or close friend of individual who have die or suffer serious harm as a direct result of the incident . ( 5 ) in this part , " advocate " mean — ( a ) the standing advocate appoint under section ( appointment of standing advocate ) ( 1 ) ; ( b ) an individual appoint as an advocate in respect of a major incident under section 25 ( 1 ) . ( 6 ) but a reference in this Part to an advocate appoint in respect of a major incident include the standing advocate only if the standing advocate have be appoint in respect of that incident under section 25 ( 1 ) . " — ( Edward Argar . ) this new clause , to be insert before clause 25 , would make introductory provision for Part 2 in consequence of NC23 and Amendment 60 . bring up , and add to the Bill . New Clause 23 - appointment of standing advocate " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must appoint an individual as the stand advocate for victim of major incident ( in this part , " the stand advocate " ) . ( 2 ) the function of the stand advocate be — ( a ) to advise the Secretary of State as to the interest of victim of major incident , and their treatment by public authority in response to major incident ; ( b ) to advise other advocate as to the exercise of the function of those advocate ; ( c ) to make report in accordance with section 30 . ( 3 ) the standing advocate may take such step as the standing advocate consider be — ( a ) appropriate to facilitate the exercise of , or ( b ) incidental or conducive to , the function of the stand advocate or another advocate . ( 4 ) an individual may be appoint as the standing advocate only if the Secretary of State consider that the individual be qualified , take into account — ( a ) the individual ' s academic , professional or other qualification , experience or skill ; ( b ) any other matter the Secretary of State consider relevant . ( 5 ) for the purpose of subsection ( 2 ) ( a ) , " public authority " include — ( a ) a court , tribunal , coroner , or inquiry panel within the meaning of section 3 of the Inquiries Act 2005 , and ( b ) any other person certain of whose function be function of a public nature , but do not include the Security Service , the Secret Intelligence Service or the Government Communications Headquarters . " — ( Edward Argar . ) this new clause , to be insert before clause 25 , would require the Secretary of State to appoint a stand advocate to undertake general function in relation to victim of major incident and other advocate appoint in respect of major incident . bring up , and add to the Bill . New Clause 24 - Publication of report " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must publish a copy of a report make under section 30 if — ( a ) it be make by the stand advocate under section 30 ( A1 ) ( annual report ) , ( b ) it be make by an advocate under section 30 ( 1 ) ( report require by the Secretary of State ) , or ( c ) it be make by an advocate under section 30 ( 4A ) ( report at discretion of advocate ) , and the advocate make the report request in write that the report be publish . ( 2 ) the copy may be publish in such manner as the Secretary of State think fit . ( 3 ) but material may be omit from the copy if the Secretary of State consider that the publication of that material would — ( a ) risk death or injury to any person , ( b ) risk damage to national security or international relation , ( c ) risk damage to the economic interest of the United Kingdom or of any part of the United Kingdom , ( d ) risk damage cause by disclosure of commercially sensitive information , ( e ) breach any condition as to confidentiality subject to which the advocate make the report acquire the material , or ( f ) contravene the data protection legislation ( within the meaning give by section 3 of the Data Protection Act 2018 ) . ( 4 ) the Secretary of State must lay a copy of a report as publish under this section before Parliament . " — ( Edward Argar . ) this new clause , to be insert after clause 30 , make provision about the publication of report make by an advocate . bring up , and add to the Bill . New Clause 25 - part 2 : consequential amendment " ( 1 ) in paragraph 3 of Schedule 1 to the Public Records Act 1958 ( establishment and organisation whose record be public record ) , in Part 2 of the table , at the appropriate place insert — " an advocate for victim of major incident appoint under Part 2 of the Victims and Prisoners Act 2024 . " ( 2 ) in Schedule 2 to the Parliamentary Commissioner Act 1967 ( department etc subject to investigation ) , at the appropriate place insert — " an advocate for victim of major incident appoint under Part 2 of the Victims and Prisoners Act 2024 . " ( 3 ) in Schedule 1 to the House of Commons Disqualification Act 1975 ( office disqualify from membership of the House of Commons ) , in Part 3 , at the appropriate place insert — " an advocate for victim of major incident appoint under Part 2 of the Victims and Prisoners Act 2024 . " ( 4 ) in Schedule 1 to the Freedom of Information Act 2000 ( public authority ) , in Part 6 , at the appropriate place insert — " an advocate for victim of major incident appoint under Part 2 of the Victims and Prisoners Act 2024 . " ( 5 ) in Schedule 19 to the Equality Act 2010 ( public authority ) , in Part 1 , after " a government department other than the Security Service , the Secret Intelligence Service or the Government Communications Headquarters . " insert — " advocate for victim of major incident an advocate for victim of major incident appoint under Part 2 of the Victims and Prisoners Act 2024 . " " — ( Edward Argar . ) this new clause , to be insert after clause 32 , would provide for an advocate appoint under Part 2 to be cover by the legislation refer to . bring up , and add to the Bill . New Clause 26 - imprisonment or detention for public protection : termination of licence " ( 1 ) the Crime ( Sentences ) Act 1997 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 31a ( imprisonment or detention for public protection : termination of licence ) — ( a ) in subsection ( 2 ) , in the word after paragraph ( b ) , for " shall " substitute " must " ; ( b ) in subsection ( 3 ) — ( i ) at the end of paragraph ( a ) insert " and " ; ( ii ) omit paragraph ( c ) and the " and " before it ; ( c ) for subsection ( 4 ) substitute — " ( 4 ) where a reference be make under subsection ( 3 ) above — ( a ) the Parole Board must direct the Secretary of State to make an order that the licence be to cease to have effect , unless paragraph ( b ) apply ; ( b ) if the Parole Board be satisfied that it be necessary for the protection of the public that the licence should remain in force , it must dismiss the reference . " ; ( d ) omit subsection ( 4A ) to ( 4c ) and insert — " ( 4d ) the reference under subsection ( 3 ) must not be make , and a reference under that subsection must not be determine by the Parole Board under subsection ( 4 ) , if at the time the reference or determination would otherwise be make the prisoner be in prison have be recall under section 32 . ( 4e ) subsection ( 4F ) apply where — ( a ) but for subsection ( 4d ) , a reference of the prisoner ' s case would have be make under subsection ( 3 ) or determine by the Parole Board under subsection ( 4 ) , ( b ) the Secretary of State have refer the prisoner ' s case to the Parole Board under section 28 or 32 , and ( c ) the Board be satisfied that it be no long necessary for the protection of the public that the prisoner should be confine . ( 4F ) where this subsection apply — ( a ) the Parole Board must direct the Secretary of State to release the prisoner unconditionally , unless paragraph ( b ) apply ; ( b ) if the Parole Board be satisfied that it be necessary for the protection of the public for the prisoner , when release , to be release on licence in respect of the preventative sentence or sentence , it must not give a direction under paragraph ( a ) . ( 4 g ) where the Parole Board give a direction under subsection ( 4F ) ( a ) — ( a ) section 28 ( 5 ) have effect in relation to the prisoner as if for " release he on licence " there be substitute " release the prisoner unconditionally " ; ( b ) section 32 ( 5 ) have effect in relation to the prisoner as if for " give effect to the direction " there be substitute " release the prisoner unconditionally " . ( 4H ) where — ( a ) the prisoner have be release on licence under this chapter ( whether or not the prisoner have subsequently be recall to prison under section 32 ) , ( b ) the qualifying period have expire , and ( c ) the prisoner ' s licence have remain in force for a continuous period of two year — ( i ) begin not before the qualifying period expire , and ( ii ) end after the come into force of section ( imprisonment or detention for public protection : termination of licence ) ( 2 ) ( d ) of the Victims and Prisoners Act 2023 , the Secretary of State must order that the licence be to cease to have effect . " ; ( e ) in subsection ( 5 ) , in the definition of " the qualifying period " , for " ten " substitute " three " ; ( f ) after subsection ( 5 ) insert — " ( 6 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation make by statutory instrument amend subsection ( 5 ) to change the length of the qualifying period for the time be specify . ( 7 ) a statutory instrument contain regulation under subsection ( 6 ) may not be make unless a draft of the instrument have be lay before and approve by a resolution of each House of Parliament . " ( 3 ) in section 32 ( recall of life prisoner while on licence ) , after subsection ( 1 ) insert — " ( 1A ) subsection ( 1 ) do not apply in relation to a prisoner in respect of whom the Secretary of State be require to make an order under section 31a ( 4 ) or ( 4H ) that the licence be to cease to have effect . " " — ( Edward Argar . ) this new clause , to be insert after clause 42 , make provision about the termination of licence impose in connection with sentence of imprisonment for public protection . bring up , and add to the Bill . New Clause 37 - restrict parental responsibility where one parent kill the other " ( 1 ) the Children Act 1989 be amend in accordance with subsection ( 2 ) to ( 7 ) . ( 2 ) in section 8 ( child arrangement order and other order with respect to child ) , in the closing word of subsection ( 3 ) , after " include " insert " proceeding in the Crown Court under section 10a or " . ( 3 ) after section 10 insert — " 10A Duty of Crown Court to make prohibit step order ( 1 ) this section apply where — ( a ) a child have two parent at least one of whom have parental responsibility for the child , and ( b ) a parent who have parental responsibility for the child ( " the offender " ) be convict of the murder or , in the circumstance mention in subsection ( 2 ) , manslaughter of the other parent . ( 2 ) the circumstance be where , but for section 54 of the Coroners and Justice Act 2009 ( loss of control ) or section 2 of the Homicide Act 1957 ( diminish responsibility ) , the offender would have be liable to be convict for murder . ( 3 ) the Crown Court must make a prohibit step order when sentence the offender . ( 4 ) the order must — ( a ) specify that no step which could be take by a parent in meet their parental responsibility for a child may be take by the offender with respect to the child without the consent of the High Court or the family court , and ( b ) be make to have effect until the order be varied or discharge by the High Court or the family court . ( 5 ) but the Crown Court must not make a prohibit step order under this section if — ( a ) a prohibit step order be already in force that meet the requirement in subsection ( 4 ) , or ( b ) in a case where the offender be convict of manslaughter , it appear to the Crown Court that it would not be in the interest of justice to do so . ( 6 ) Sections 1 , 7 and 11 do not apply where the Crown Court proceed under this section . ( 7 ) a prohibit step order make under this section do not cease to have effect if the offender be acquit of the murder or manslaughter on appeal ( but see section 10b ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) ) . ( 8 ) a prohibit step order make under this section be to be treat for the purpose of section 31f ( 6 ) of the Matrimonial and Family Proceedings Act 1984 ( proceeding and decision ) as if it be make by the family court . ( 9 ) the Crown Court do not have jurisdiction to entertain any proceeding in connection with the enforcement of a prohibit step order make under this section . 10b review of order make under section 10a ( 1 ) this section apply where a prohibit step order be make under section 10a prohibit the taking of step by a parent with respect to a child . ( 2 ) the local authority that be the relevant local authority at the time the order be make must make an application to the court ( see section 92 ( 7 ) ) to review the order . ( 3 ) subsection ( 4 ) apply if — ( a ) the application under subsection ( 2 ) have be dispose of ( whether or not the order be varied ) , and ( b ) the parent be acquit on appeal of the murder or manslaughter that result in the making of the order . ( 4 ) the local authority that be the relevant local authority at the time the verdict of acquittal be enter must make an application to the court to review the order . ( 5 ) an application under this section must be make as soon as be reasonably practicable and in any event before the end of the period of 14 day begin with the day after the day on which — ( a ) in the case of an application under subsection ( 2 ) , the order be make ; ( b ) in the case of an application under subsection ( 4 ) , the verdict of acquittal be enter . ( 6 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation amend the period specify in subsection ( 5 ) . ( 7 ) in this section " relevant local authority " mean — ( a ) where the child with respect to whom the order be make be ordinarily resident within the area of a local authority in England or Wales , that local authority ; ( b ) where the child with respect to whom the order be make do not fall within paragraph ( a ) but be present within the area of a local authority in England or Wales , that local authority . " ( 4 ) in section 9 ( restriction on make section 8 order ) — ( a ) in subsection ( 1 ) , after " apply " insert " or a prohibit step order make under section 10a " ; ( b ) in subsection ( 6a ) , after " apply " insert " or a prohibit step order make under section 10a " ; ( c ) after subsection ( 7 ) insert — " ( 8 ) subsection ( 7 ) do not apply to a prohibit step order make under section 10a . " ( 5 ) in section 33 ( effect of care order ) , after subsection ( 3 ) insert — " ( 3A ) where a prohibit step order make under section 10a be in force in relation to a parent , the authority may only exercise the power in subsection ( 3 ) ( b ) in relation to the taking of a step by that parent that be not prohibit by that order . " ( 6 ) in section 91 ( effect and duration of order etc ) — ( a ) in subsection ( 2 ) , after " section 8 order " insert " ( other than a prohibit step order make under section 10a ) " ; ( b ) after subsection ( 5A ) insert — " ( 5b ) subsection ( 5c ) apply where — ( a ) a prohibit step order ( the " exist order " ) be in force prohibit the taking of step by a parent ( " p " ) with respect to a child ( " C " ) , and ( b ) a prohibit step order be make under section 10a in relation to p with respect to C . ( 5c ) the exist order be discharge ( except to the extent that it prohibit the taking of step other than by p with respect to c ) . " ( 7 ) in section 104 ( regulation and order ) — ( a ) in each of subsection ( 2 ) and ( 3A ) , after " subsection " insert " ( 3aza ) , " ; ( b ) after subsection ( 3A ) insert — " ( 3aza ) regulation fall within this subsection if they be regulation make in the exercise of the power confer by section 10b ( 6 ) . " ( 8 ) in section 50 of the Criminal Appeal Act 1968 ( meaning of " sentence " ) , after subsection ( 2 ) insert — " ( 2A ) a prohibit step order make under section 10a of the Children Act 1989 be not a sentence for the purpose of this Act . " " — ( Edward Argar . ) this new clause , to be insert after clause 15 , require the Crown Court to make a prohibit step order when a parent be convict of the murder or voluntary manslaughter of the other parent and provide for the order to be review by the family court . bring up , and add to the Bill . New Clause 10 - Sewage Illness Victim Compensation Scheme " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must by regulation provide for a compensation scheme for victim who have suffer harm as a direct result of criminal conduct in relation to sewage and waste water . ( 2 ) regulation under subsection ( 1 ) must — ( a ) provide for the payment of compensation to people who have become unwell as a result of bathe in water contaminate by sewage , ( b ) make provision in relation to the medical evidence require to support a claim for compensation under the regulation . ( 3 ) regulation under this section may not be make unless a draft of the instrument have be lay before and approve by resolution of each House of Parliament . " — ( Tim Farron . ) question put , that the clause be add to the Bill . Gregory Campbell Wendy Chamberlain Daisy Cooper Edward Davey Jeffrey M . Donaldson Sarah Dyke Jonathan Edwards Tim Farron Stephen Farry Paul Girvan Sarah Green Claire Hanna Wera Hobhouse Ben Lake Carla Lockhart Caroline Lucas Layla Moran Helen Morgan Sarah Olney Ian Paisley Jnr Gavin Robinson Liz Saville - Roberts Jim Shannon Jamie Stone Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Alistair Carmichael Christine Jardine Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Conor Burns Rob Butler Lisa Cameron Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Damian Collins Alberto Costa Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Oliver Dowden Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge Iain Duncan Smith Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Kevin Foster Liam Fox Lucy Frazer Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Simon Hart John Hayes Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Jeremy Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Andrea Jenkyns Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Danny Kruger John Lamont Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Andrew Lewer Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Mark Logan Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Karl McCartney Esther McVey Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Neil o ' Brien Guy Opperman Mike Penning John Penrose Chris Philp Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Nicola Richards Rob Roberts Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew Selous Grant Shapps David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Robert Largan Gagan Mohindra the House divide : Ayes 27 , Noes 267 . question accordingly negative . New Clause 14 - major incident : duty of candour " ( 1 ) in discharge their duty in relation to a major incident , public authority and public servant and official must at all time act within their power — ( a ) in the public interest , and ( b ) with transparency , candour and frankness . ( 2 ) if a major incident result in a court proceeding , official inquiry or investigation , public authority and public servant and official have a duty to assist — ( a ) relate to their own activity , or ( b ) where their act or omission may be relevant . ( 3 ) in discharge the duty under subsection ( 2 ) , public authority and public servant and official shall — ( a ) act with proper expedition ; ( b ) act with transparency , candour and frankness , ( c ) act without favour to their own position , ( d ) make full disclosure of relevant document , material and fact , ( e ) set out their position on the relevant matter at the outset of the proceeding , inquiry or investigation , and ( f ) provide further information and clarification as order by a court or inquiry . ( 4 ) in discharge their duty under subsection ( 2 ) , public authority and public servant and official shall have regard to the pleading , allegation , term of reference and parameter of the relevant proceeding , inquiry or investigation but shall not be limit by they , in particular where they hold information which might change the ambit of the say proceeding , inquiry or investigation . ( 5 ) the duty in subsection ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) shall — ( a ) be read subject to exist law relate to privacy , datum protection and national security , ( b ) apply in a qualified way with respect to private law and non - public function as set out in subsection ( 6 ) , and ( c ) not be limit by any issue of insurance indemnity . ( 6 ) the duty in subsection ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) shall be enforceable by application to the relevant court or inquiry chairperson by any person affect by the allege breach , or the court or inquiry may act of its own motion . where there be no extant court or inquiry proceeding , the duty may be enforce by judicial review proceeding in the High Court . " — ( Kevin Brennan . ) this new clause would require public authority and public servant and official to act in the public interest and with transparency , candour and frankness when carry out their duty in relation to major incident . bring up . question put , that the clause be add to the Bill . Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Jon Ashworth Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Paul Blomfield Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Lyn Brown Nick Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Richard Burgon Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Gregory Campbell Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Feryal Clark Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Neil Coyle Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Edward Davey Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Jeffrey M . Donaldson Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Tim Farron Stephen Farry Colleen Fletcher Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Paul Girvan Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Peter Kyle Ben Lake Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Tony Lloyd Carla Lockhart Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Ian Mearns Navendu Mishra Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Alex Norris Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Sarah Owen Ian Paisley Jnr Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Angela Rayner Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Gavin Robinson Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Jim Shannon Virendra Sharma Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Jeff Smith Nick Smith Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Alistair Strathern Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Gareth Thomas Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz christian Wakeford Catherine West Andrew Western Alan Whitehead Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Beth Winter Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Mary Glindon Kim Leadbeater Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Conor Burns Rob Butler Lisa Cameron Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Oliver Dowden Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond Iain Duncan Smith Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Kevin Foster Liam Fox Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Simon Hart John Hayes Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Jeremy Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Andrea Jenkyns Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Danny Kruger John Lamont Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Andrew Lewer Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Mark Logan Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Karl McCartney Esther McVey Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mike Penning John Penrose Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Rob Roberts Mary Robinson Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew Selous Grant Shapps David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Robert Largan Gagan Mohindra the House divide : Ayes 193 , Noes 279 . question accordingly negative . New Clause 27 - Compensation for victim of the infected blood scandal ( no . 2 ) " ( 1 ) in accordance with section 2 ( 3c ) , the Secretary of State must , within three month of the passing of this Act , establish a body to administer the compensation scheme for victim of the infected blood scandal . ( 2 ) the body create under this section must be chair by a judge of High Court or Court of Session with status as sole decision maker . ( 3 ) in exercise its function , the body must — ( a ) have regard to the need of applicant for speed of provision , simplicity or process , accessibility , involvement , proactive support , fairness and efficiency ; ( b ) involve potentially eligible person and their representative amongst those in a small advisory board , and in the review and improvement of the scheme ; ( c ) permit the hearing of applicant in person ; and ( d ) have an independent appeal body which will reconsider decision of the scheme refer to it . ( 4 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation make further provision about the body establish under this section . ( 5 ) for the purpose of this Act , a victim of the infected blood scandal mean any infected or affected person whom the Second Interim Report of the Infected Blood Inquiry , as lay before Parliament on 19 April 2023 , recommend should be admit to a compensation scheme . ( 6 ) this section come into force on the day on which this Act be pass . " — ( Dame Diana Johnson . ) bring up . question put , that the clause be add to the Bill . Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Jon Ashworth Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Peter Bottomley Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Nick Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Robert Buckland Richard Burgon Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Gregory Campbell Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Joanna Cherry Rehman Chishti Feryal Clark Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Neil Coyle Stella Creasy Tracey Crouch Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Edward Davey Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Jeffrey M . Donaldson Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Tim Farron Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Colleen Fletcher Kevin Foster Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Marcus Fysh Patricia Gibson Paul Girvan Patrick Grady Peter Grant Damian Green Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Neale Hanvey Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Mark Hendrick Drew Hendry Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Adam Holloway Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Andrea Jenkyns Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Peter Kyle Ben Lake Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Julian Lewis Simon Lightwood David Linden Tony Lloyd Carla Lockhart Tim Loughton Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather John McNally Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Ian Mearns Nigel Mills Navendu Mishra Damien Moore layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Anne Marie Morris Grahame Morris Holly Mumby - Croft Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy John Nicolson Caroline Nokes Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Sarah Owen Ian Paisley Jnr Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Rob Roberts Gavin Robinson Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Jim Shannon Virendra Sharma Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Chloe Smith Henry Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Alistair Strathern Graham Stringer Julian Sturdy Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Alison Thewliss Gareth Thomas Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Jon Trickett Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz christian Wakeford Robin Walker Catherine West Andrew Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Mary Glindon Kim Leadbeater Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Alex Burghart Conor Burns Rob Butler Lisa Cameron Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Jo Churchill Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Damian Collins Alberto Costa Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Dehenna Davison Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Oliver Dowden Flick Drummond James Duddridge Iain Duncan Smith Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Liam Fox Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Andrew Griffith Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Simon Hart Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Jeremy Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Danny Kruger John Lamont Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Andrew Lewer Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Mark Logan Jonathan Lord Craig Mackinlay Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Karl McCartney Esther McVey Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Kieran Mullan Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Neil o ' Brien Guy Opperman Mike Penning John Penrose Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Mary Robinson Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew Selous Grant Shapps David Simmonds Julian Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Rishi Sunak James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Mike Wood Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Robert Largan Gagan Mohindra the House divide : Ayes 246 , Noes 242 . question accordingly agree to . new clause 27 add to the Bill . clause 1 - meaning of " victim " Amendment propose : 33 , page 1 , line 16 , at end insert — " ( e ) where the person have experience anti - social behaviour , as define by section 2 of the Anti - social Behaviour Act 2014 , and the condition necessary for an ASB case review under section 104 of that Act have be meet . " — ( Kevin Brennan . ) this amendment would include victim of anti - social behaviour in the definition of a victim . question put , that the amendment be make . Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Jon Ashworth Paula Barker Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Paul Blomfield Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Lyn Brown Nick Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Richard Burgon Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Gregory Campbell Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Feryal Clark Daisy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Neil Coyle Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Edward Davey Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Jeffrey M . Donaldson Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Tim Farron Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Paul Girvan Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Peter Kyle Ben Lake Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Tony Lloyd Carla Lockhart Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Ian Mearns Navendu Mishra Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Alex Norris Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Sarah Owen Ian Paisley Jnr Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Gavin Robinson Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Jim Shannon Virendra Sharma Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Jeff Smith Nick Smith Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Alistair Strathern Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Gareth Thomas Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz christian Wakeford Catherine West Andrew Western Alan Whitehead Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Beth Winter Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Mary Glindon Kim Leadbeater Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Conor Burns Rob Butler Lisa Cameron Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Oliver Dowden Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond Iain Duncan Smith Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Kevin Foster Liam Fox Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Simon Hart John Hayes Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Jeremy Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Andrea Jenkyns Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Danny Kruger John Lamont Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Andrew Lewer Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Mark Logan Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Karl McCartney Esther McVey Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mike Penning John Penrose Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Angela Richardson Rob Roberts Mary Robinson Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew Selous Grant Shapps David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Gavin Williamson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Robert Largan Gagan Mohindra the House divide : Ayes 190 , Noes 277 . question accordingly negative . Amendment make : 34 , page 2 , line 3 , leave out from " offence " to end of line 6 and insert — " ( 5 ) it be immaterial for the purpose of subsection ( 4 ) ( b ) that — ( a ) no person have report the offence ; ( b ) no person have be charge with or convict of the offence . ( 6 ) in section 52 ( 3 ) ( a ) of the Domestic Violence , Crime and Victims Act 2004 , for " complaint have be make about " substitute " person have report " . " — ( Edward Argar . ) this amendment clarify that conduct which constitute an offence may be " criminal conduct " for the purpose of Part 1 of the Bill whether or not the offence have be report . section 52 ( 3 ) ( a ) of the Domestic Violence , Crime and Victims Act 2004 be amend for consistency . clause 6 - code awareness and review compliance : criminal justice body Amendments make : 35 , page 4 , line 37 , after " review " insert " whether and " . this amendment clarify that criminal justice body must keep under review whether they provide service in accordance with the victim ' code , as well as how service be provide . amendment 36 , page 5 , line 17 , leave out " provide in accordance with the victim ' code " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 35 . amendment 37 , page 5 , line 20 , leave out " provide in accordance with the victim ' code " . — ( Edward Argar . ) this amendment be consequential on Amendment 35 . clause 7 - review code compliance : elect local policing body Amendment make : 38 , page 6 , line 6 , at begin insert " whether and " . — ( Edward Argar . ) this amendment clarify that elect local policing body must keep under review whether criminal justice body in their area provide service in accordance with the victim ' code , as well as how service be provide , clause 8 - code awareness and review compliance : British Transport Police Amendments make : 39 , page 6 , line 39 , after " review " insert " whether and " . this amendment clarify that the Chief Constable of the British Transport Police Force and the British Transport Police Authority must keep under review whether the Chief Constable provide service in accordance with the victim ' code , as well as how service be provide . amendment 40 , page 7 , line 18 , leave out " provide in accordance with the victim ' code " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 39 . amendment 41 , page 7 , line 21 , leave out " provide in accordance with the victim ' code " . — ( Edward Argar . ) this amendment be consequential on Amendment 39 . clause 9 - code awareness and review compliance : Ministry of Defence Police Amendments make : 42 , page 8 , line 1 , after " review " insert " whether and " . this amendment clarify that the Chief Constable of the Ministry of Defence Police and the Secretary of State must keep under review whether the Chief Constable provide service in accordance with the victim ' code , as well as how service be provide . amendment 43 , page 8 , line 17 , leave out " provide in accordance with the victim ' code " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 42 . amendment 44 , page 8 , line 20 , leave out " provide in accordance with the victim ' code " . — ( Edward Argar . ) this amendment be consequential on Amendment 42 . clause 11 - Guidance on code awareness and review compliance Amendment make : 45 , page 9 , line 28 , leave out " other protect characteristic " and insert " protect characteristic within the meaning of the Equality Act 2010 " . — ( Edward Argar . ) this amendment clarify the meaning of " protect characteristic " for the purpose of guidance about review victim ' code compliance . clause 12 - duty to collaborate in exercise of victim support function Amendments make : 46 , page 10 , line 5 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) a relevant authority exercise a function in relation to relevant victim support service if it exercise the function in relation to — ( a ) the provision of such service , or ( b ) the commissioning of such service provide by another person . " this amendment clarify the function in relation to which the duty in clause 12 to 14 apply . amendment 47 , page 10 , line 38 , leave out subsection ( 9 ) . — ( Edward Argar . ) this amendment be consequential on Amendment 46 . clause 13 - strategy for collaboration in exercise of victim support function Amendments make : 48 , page 11 , line 9 , leave out from " must " to first " person " in line 12 and insert " — ( a ) make reasonable effort to obtain the view of victim in the police area , ( b ) consult " this Amendment be consequential on Amendment 48 . amendment 49 , page 11 , line 13 , after " service " insert " in the police area " . this amendment clarify that , when a strategy in relation to victim support service in a police area be be prepare or revise , provider of service outside the area need not be consult . Amendment 50 , page 11 , line 14 , at begin insert " consult " this Amendment be consequential on Amendment 48 . Amendment 51 , page 11 , line 15 , leave out from " must " to end of line 20 and insert " — ( a ) assess the need of victim in the police area for relevant victim support service , ( b ) assess whether , and how , those need be be meet by the service which be available ( whether or not provide by the relevant authority ) , and ( c ) have regard to those assessment . " this amendment require authority prepare a strategy in relation to victim support service in a police area to assess , and have regard to , whether and how the need of victim be be meet . amendment 52 , page 11 , line 20 , at end insert — " ( 3A ) when make an assessment under subsection ( 3 ) , the relevant authority must have regard to the particular need of victim who be child or have protect characteristic within the meaning of the Equality Act 2010 . " — ( Edward Argar . ) this amendment require authority undertake the assessment require by Amendment 51 to have regard to the particular need of victim who be child or have protect characteristic within the meaning of the Equality Act 2010 . clause 15 - Guidance about independent domestic violence and sexual violence advisor Amendment make : 53 , page 12 , line 21 , leave out " other protect characteristic " and insert " protect characteristic within the meaning of the Equality Act 2010 " — ( Edward Argar . ) this amendment clarify the meaning of " protect characteristic " for the purpose of guidance about independent domestic violence adviser and independent sexual violence adviser . clause 22 - information relate to victim Amendments make : 54 , page 19 , leave out line 6 to 11 . this amendment be consequential on NC21 . Amendment 55 , page 20 , line 9 , leave out " to understand " and insert " in relation to " . this amendment be consequential on NC21 . amendment 56 , page 20 , leave out line 14 and 15 and insert — " " relevant authority " — ( a ) in relation to England , mean a county council , a district council for an area for which there be no county council , a London borough council or the Common Council of the City of London in its capacity as a local authority ; ( b ) in relation to Wales , mean a county council or a county borough council ; " this amendment be consequential on NC21 . Amendment make : 57 , page 21 , leave out line 38 and 39 . — ( Edward Argar . ) this amendment be consequential on NC21 . clause 25 - appointment of independent public advocate Amendments make : 58 , page 23 , line 15 , leave out " independent public " . this amendment be consequential on NC22 . amendment 59 , page 23 , line 16 , leave out from " incident " to end of line 22 . this amendment be consequential on NC22 . Amendment 60 , page 23 , line 24 , after " if " insert " — ( a ) the individual be the stand advocate , or " . this amendment would enable the Secretary of State to appoint the standing advocate appoint under NC23 as an advocate in respect of a specific major incident . amendment 61 , page 23 , line 25 , leave out " to act as an advocate " . this amendment be consequential on NC22 . Amendment 62 , page 23 , line 38 , leave out subsection ( 7 ) . — ( Edward Argar . ) this amendment be consequential on NC22 . clause 26 - term of appointment Amendment make : 63 , page 24 , line 25 , leave out " appoint in respect of a major incident " . — ( Edward Argar . ) this amendment be consequential on NC23 . clause 27 - appointment of multiple independent public advocate Amendments make : 64 , page 24 , line 31 , leave out " may " and insert " must " . this amendment would require the Secretary of State to appoint a lead advocate where more than one advocate be appoint in respect of a major incident . amendment 65 , page 24 , line 33 , after first " advocate " insert " appoint in respect of the incident " . this amendment be consequential on NC22 . amendment 66 , page 24 , line 35 , leave out subsection ( 4 ) . — ( Edward Argar . ) this amendment be consequential on Amendment 67 . clause 28 - function of an independent public advocate Amendments make : 67 , page 25 , line 2 , at end insert — " ( A1 ) this section apply where an advocate be appoint in respect of a major incident . ( A2 ) where more than one advocate be appoint in respect of the incident , reference in this section to " the advocate " be to each advocate individually and any number of they ( include all of they ) act jointly . " this amendment be consequential on NC22 . amendment 68 , page 25 , line 3 , leave out " in respect of a major incident , an " and insert " , the " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 67 . amendment 69 , page 25 , line 23 , leave out " an " and insert " the " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 67 . amendment 70 , page 25 , line 26 , leave out " an " and insert " the " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 67 . amendment 71 , page 25 , line 33 , leave out " an " and insert " the " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 67 . amendment 72 , page 25 , line 37 , leave out " an " and insert " the " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 67 . amendment 73 , page 26 , leave out line 3 and 4 . this amendment be consequential on NC23 . Amendment 74 , page 26 , leave out line 7 to 10 and insert — " " public authority " have the same meaning as in section ( appointment of standing advocate ) ( 2 ) ( a ) ( see section ( appointment of standing advocate ) ( 5 ) ) . " — ( Edward Argar . ) this amendment be consequential on NC23 . clause 29 - role of advocate under Part 1 of the Coroners and Justice Act 2009 Amendment make : 75 , page 26 , line 14 , leave out from " paragraph " to end of line 18 and insert " ( ka ) insert — " ( kb ) where an advocate have be appoint under section 25 ( 1 ) of the Victims and Prisoners Act 2024 in respect of an incident which may have cause or contribute to the death of the deceased — ( i ) each advocate that have be appoint under that section in respect of that incident , and ( ii ) the standing advocate appoint under section ( appointment of standing advocate ) of that Act ; " " . — ( Edward Argar . ) this amendment be consequential on NC22 . clause 30 - Reports to the Secretary of State Amendments make : 76 , page 26 , line 19 , at end insert — " ( A1 ) the standing advocate must , in respect of each calendar year , report to the Secretary of State as to — ( a ) the exercise of the stand advocate ' s function in that year ; ( b ) such matter as the Secretary of State may require in writing ; ( c ) such other matter as the standing advocate consider relevant to their function or the function of another advocate . ( A2 ) a report under subsection ( A1 ) must be make by 1 July in the calendar year follow the year in respect of which the report be make . " this amendment would require the standing advocate appoint under NC23 to make annual report . amendment 77 , page 26 , line 20 , leave out " send a " and insert " give " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 81 . amendment 78 , page 26 , line 28 , leave out " this section " and insert " subsection ( 1 ) " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 76 . amendment 79 , page 26 , line 32 , leave out " this section " and insert " subsection ( 1 ) " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 76 . amendment 80 , page 26 , line 33 , leave out " the incident in respect of which they be appoint " and insert " — ( a ) a major incident in respect of which they be appoint , or ( b ) in the case of the standing advocate , any major incident , " this amendment be consequential on NC23 . Amendment 81 , page 26 , line 34 , at end insert — " ( 4A ) an advocate may , at their discretion and at any time , report to the Secretary of State such matter as the advocate consider relevant to — ( a ) a major incident in respect of which they be appoint , or ( b ) in the case of the standing advocate , any major incident . ( 4b ) if more than one advocate have be appoint in respect of the same major incident — ( a ) the Secretary of State may give notice under subsection ( 2 ) in relation to the incident only to the lead advocate ; ( b ) only the lead advocate may make a report under subsection ( 4A ) in relation to the incident . " this amendment would enable an advocate ( or the lead advocate where multiple advocate be appoint in respect of the same incident ) to report at their discretion . Amendment 82 , page 26 , line 35 , leave out subsection ( 5 ) to ( 7 ) . — ( Edward Argar . ) this amendment be consequential on NC24 and Amendment 81 . clause 31 - information sharing and data protection Amendments make : 83 , page 27 , line 8 , at end insert — " ( za ) the standing advocate ; " this amendment be consequential on NC22 . Amendment 84 , page 27 , line 11 , leave out paragraph ( c ) and ( d ) and insert — " ( c ) any other person exercise function of a public nature ; ( d ) a victim of a major incident in respect of which the advocate be appoint . " this amendment would expressly allow an advocate to share information with any person exercise function of a public nature and clarify the victim with whom information may be share . amendment 85 , page 27 , line 13 , leave out first " the Secretary of State " and insert " a person exercise function of a public nature " . this amendment would expressly allow person exercise function of a public nature as well as the Secretary of State to share information with an advocate . amendment 86 , page 27 , line 13 , leave out second " Secretary of State " and insert " person " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 85 . Amendment 87 , page 27 , line 16 , leave out first " the " . this amendment would clarify that clause 31 ( 3 ) relate to any information receive in the exercise of an advocate ' s function rather than specific information . amendment 88 , page 27 , line 17 , leave out " those " and insert " their " . this amendment would clarify that an advocate may use information receive in the exercise of an advocate ' s function for any of their function . amendment 89 , page 27 , line 20 , leave out subsection ( 5 ) . this amendment would allow an advocate to share personal datum without consent where it be necessary to do so ( consistently with data protection legislation ) . amendment 90 , page 27 , line 22 , at end insert — " ( 5a ) this section do not limit the circumstance in which information may be disclose apart from this Part . ( 5b ) except as provide by subsection ( 6 ) , a disclosure of information under this Part do not breach — ( a ) any obligation of confidence owe by the person disclose the information , or ( b ) any other restriction on the disclosure of information ( however impose ) . " this amendment would provide that clause 31 do not limit other power to disclose information and that a disclosure of information under Part 2 do not breach other obligation ( subject to data protection legislation ) . amendment 91 , page 27 , line 28 , leave out " " datum subject " , " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 89 . amendment 92 , page 27 , leave out line 31 . — ( Edward Argar . ) this amendment be consequential on Amendment 84 . clause 32 - Guidance for independent public advocate Amendments make : 93 , page 27 , line 35 , after " advocate " insert " appoint in respect of a major incident " . this amendment be consequential on NC22 . Amendment 94 , page 28 , line 2 , after " advocate " insert " appoint in respect of a major incident " . — ( Edward Argar . ) this amendment be consequential on NC22 . clause 33 - public protection decision : life prisoner Amendments make : 95 , page 29 , leave out line 26 and insert — " ( c ) subsection ( 1 ) of section 32zac , for the purpose of that subsection . " see the explanatory statement to Amendment 104 . amendment 96 , page 29 , line 31 , leave out " 32zac ( 2 ) , the Secretary of State " and insert " 32zac ( 1 ) , the Upper Tribunal or High Court ( as the case may be ) " . see the explanatory statement to Amendment 104 . amendment 97 , page 30 , line 12 , leave out subsection ( 5 ) . — ( Edward Argar . ) this amendment be consequential on Amendment NC26 . clause 34 - public protection decision : fix - term prisoner Amendments make : 98 , page 31 , line 40 , leave out " 256AZBC ( 2 ) , the Secretary of State " and insert " 256AZBC ( 1 ) , the Upper Tribunal or High Court ( as the case may be ) " . see the explanatory statement to Amendment 104 . amendment 99 , page 32 , line 26 , leave out " 256AZBC ( 2 ) " and insert " 256AZBC ( 1 ) " . see the explanatory statement to Amendment 104 . Amendment make : 150 , page 33 , line 32 , leave out from " of , " to end of line 36 and insert " section 256AZBC ( 1 ) ( power on referral of release decision ) . " — ( Edward Argar . ) see the explanatory statement to Amendment 104 . clause 35 - Amendment of power to change test for release on licence of certain prisoner Amendment make : 100 , page 35 , leave out line 19 to 26 and insert — " ( a ) section 32zac ( 1 ) of the Crime ( Sentences ) Act 1997 ( power on referral of release decision ) ; ( b ) section 256azbc ( 1 ) of the Criminal Justice Act 2003 ( power on referral of release decision ) . " " — ( Edward Argar . ) see the explanatory statement to Amendment 104 . clause 36 - Referral of release decision : life prisoner Amendments make : 101 , page 35 , line 30 , leave out " Secretary of State " and insert " relevant court " . see the explanatory statement to Amendment 104 . amendment 102 , page 35 , line 31 , leave out " Secretary of State " and insert " relevant court " . see the explanatory statement to Amendment 104 . amendment 103 , page 35 , line 34 , leave out from " 32ZAB " to end of line 11 on page 36 and insert " , and ( b ) the Parole Board direct the prisoner ' s release under section 28 ( 5 ) or 32 ( 5 ) . " see the explanatory statement to Amendment 104 . amendment 104 , page 36 , line 13 , leave out " Secretary of State " and insert " relevant court if the Secretary of State consider that — ( a ) the release of the prisoner would be likely to undermine public confidence in the parole system , and ( b ) if the case be refer , the relevant court might not be satisfied that it be no long necessary for the protection of the public that the prisoner should be confine ( see section 32zac ( 1 ) ) . " this amendment , and the other Government amendment to clause 33 to 42 and 47 , enable the Secretary of State to direct the Parole Board to refer certain prisoner release decision to the Upper Tribunal or , where sensitive material may be relevant , the High Court . Amendment 105 , page 36 , line 13 , at end insert — " ( 5a ) " relevant court " mean — ( a ) if the Secretary of State certifie that sensitive material may be relevant to the prisoner ' s case , the High Court ; ( b ) in any other case , the Upper Tribunal . ( 5b ) for the purpose of subsection ( 5A ) , " sensitive material " mean material the disclosure of which would , in the opinion of the Secretary of State , be damaging to the interest of national security . " see the explanatory statement to Amendment 104 . amendment 106 , page 36 , leave out line 15 and 16 and insert " the Secretary of State — ( a ) must notify the prisoner of the direction and the reason for give it , and ( b ) pende determination of the prisoner ' s case under section 32zac ( 1 ) , be not require to give effect to the Parole Board ' s direction to release the prisoner . " see the explanatory statement to Amendment 104 . Amendment 107 , page 36 , leave out line 22 and 23 . see the explanatory statement to Amendment 104 . amendment 108 , page 36 , line 24 , leave out " offence for purpose of Secretary of State referral " and insert " specified offence " . see the explanatory statement to Amendment 104 . amendment 109 , page 37 , line 31 , leave out " Secretary of State " and insert " relevant court " . see the explanatory statement to Amendment 104 . amendment 110 , page 37 , line 32 , leave out from " the " to end of line 38 and insert " relevant court — ( a ) must , if satisfy that it be no long necessary for the protection of the public that the prisoner should be confine , make an order require the Secretary of State to give effect to the Parole Board ' s direction to release the prisoner on licence ; ( b ) otherwise , must make an order quash the Parole Board ' s direction to release the prisoner on licence . " see the explanatory statement to Amendment 104 . amendment 111 , page 37 , line 39 , leave out from begin to end of line 9 on page 38 and insert — " ( 2 ) an order under subsection ( 1 ) ( a ) may include direction as to the condition to be include in the prisoner ' s licence on release . ( 3 ) an order under subsection ( 1 ) ( b ) have effect as if the prisoner ' s case be dispose of by the Parole Board on the date on which the order be make . ( 4 ) in this section " relevant court " have the meaning give by section 32zaa ( 5A ) . " " see the explanatory statement to Amendment 104 . amendment 112 , page 38 , line 9 , at end insert — " ( 2 ) in section 32zb of the Crime ( Sentences ) Act 1997 ( release at direction of Parole Board : timing ) , in subsection ( 1 ) , at the end insert " ( include where the Upper Tribunal or High Court make an order under section 32zac ( 1 ) ( a ) require the Secretary of State to give effect to such a direction ) " . " — ( Edward Argar . ) see the explanatory statement to Amendment 104 . clause 37 - Referral of release decision : fix - term prisoner Amendments make : 113 , page 38 , line 12 , leave out " Secretary of State " and insert " relevant court " . see the explanatory statement to Amendment 104 . amendment 114 , page 38 , line 13 , leave out " Secretary of State " and insert " relevant court " . see the explanatory statement to Amendment 104 . amendment 115 , page 38 , line 16 , leave out from " 256azbb " to end of line 33 and insert " , and ( b ) the Board direct the prisoner ' s release under a provision mention in the second column of the table in section 237B . " see the explanatory statement to Amendment 104 . amendment 116 , page 38 , line 35 , leave out " Secretary of State " and insert " relevant court if the Secretary of State consider that — ( a ) the release of the prisoner would be likely to undermine public confidence in the parole system , and ( b ) if the case be refer , the relevant court might not be satisfied that it be no long necessary for the protection of the public that the prisoner should be confine ( see section 256AZBC ( 1 ) ) . " see the explanatory statement to Amendment 104 . amendment 117 , page 38 , line 35 , at end insert — " ( 5a ) " relevant court " mean — ( a ) if the Secretary of State certifie that sensitive material may be relevant to the prisoner ' s case , the High Court ; ( b ) in any other case , the Upper Tribunal . ( 5b ) for the purpose of subsection ( 5A ) , " sensitive material " mean material the disclosure of which would , in the opinion of the Secretary of State , be damaging to the interest of national security . " see the explanatory statement to Amendment 104 . amendment 118 , page 38 , leave out line 37 and 38 and insert " the Secretary of State — ( a ) must notify the prisoner of the direction and the reason for give it , and ( b ) pende determination of the prisoner ' s case under section 256azbc ( 1 ) , be not require to give effect to the Parole Board ' s direction to release the prisoner . " see the explanatory statement to Amendment 104 . amendment 119 , page 39 , leave out line 4 to 11 . see the explanatory statement to Amendment 104 . amendment 120 , page 39 , line 12 , leave out " offence for purpose of Secretary of State referral " and insert " specified offence " . see the explanatory statement to Amendment 104 . amendment 121 , page 40 , line 17 , leave out " Secretary of State " and insert " relevant court " . see the explanatory statement to Amendment 104 . amendment 122 , page 40 , line 18 , leave out from " the " to end of line 24 and insert " relevant court — ( a ) must , if satisfy that it be no long necessary for the protection of the public that the prisoner should be confine , make an order require the Secretary of State to give effect to the Parole Board ' s direction to release the prisoner on licence ; ( b ) otherwise , must make an order quash the direction . " see the explanatory statement to Amendment 104 . amendment 123 , page 40 , leave out line 25 to 37 and insert — " ( 2 ) an order under subsection ( 1 ) ( a ) may include direction as to the condition to be include in the prisoner ' s licence on release . ( 3 ) an order under subsection ( 1 ) ( b ) have effect as if the prisoner ' s case be dispose of by the Parole Board on the date on which the order be make . ( 4 ) in this section , " relevant court " have the meaning give by section 256azba ( 5A ) . " see the explanatory statement to Amendment 104 . amendment 124 , page 40 , line 38 , leave out " Secretary of State " and insert " relevant court " . see the explanatory statement to Amendment 104 . amendment 125 , page 40 , line 39 , leave out " ( 2 ) " and insert " ( 1 ) ( a ) " . see the explanatory statement to Amendment 104 . amendment 126 , page 40 , line 41 , at end insert — " ( 2 ) in section 256azc of the Criminal Justice Act 2003 ( release at direction of Parole Board : timing ) , in subsection ( 1 ) , at the end insert " ( include where the Upper Tribunal or High Court make an order under section 256azbc ( 1 ) ( a ) require the Secretary of State to give effect to such a direction ) " . " — ( Edward Argar . ) see the explanatory statement to Amendment 104 . clause 38 - Procedure on referral of release decision Amendment make : 127 , page 41 , line 1 , leave out clause 38 . — ( Edward Argar . ) see the explanatory statement to Amendment 104 . clause 39 - appeal to Upper Tribunal of decision on referral : life prisoner Amendment make : 128 , page 41 , line 27 , leave out clause 39 . — ( Edward Argar . ) see the explanatory statement to Amendment 104 . clause 40 - appeal to Upper Tribunal of decision on referral : fix - term prisoner Amendment make : 129 , page 43 , line 1 , leave out clause 40 . — ( Edward Argar . ) see the explanatory statement to Amendment 104 . clause 41 - licence condition of life prisoner release follow referral Amendments make : 130 , page 44 , line 13 , leave out from begin to " , or " on line 14 . see the explanatory statement to Amendment 104 . amendment 131 , page 44 , leave out line 17 to 20 and insert — " ( 3A ) where the Upper Tribunal or High Court give a direction under section 32zac ( 2 ) as to the condition to be include in a life prisoner ' s licence on release , the Secretary of State — ( a ) must include the condition in the prisoner ' s licence on release ; " — ( Edward Argar . ) see the explanatory statement to Amendment 104 . clause 42 - licence condition of fix - term prisoner release follow referral Amendment make : 132 , page 44 , leave out line 24 to 36 and insert — " ( 1 ) section 250 of the Criminal Justice Act 2003 ( licence condition ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in subsection ( 5A ) , at the begin insert " subject to subsection ( 5D ) , " . ( 3 ) after subsection ( 5c ) insert — " ( 5D ) where the Upper Tribunal or High Court give a direction under section 256azbc ( 2 ) as to the condition to be include in a prisoner ' s licence on release , the Secretary of State — ( a ) must include the condition in the prisoner ' s licence on release ; ( b ) may subsequently insert a condition in such a licence or vary or cancel a condition of such a licence . " " . — ( Edward Argar . ) see the explanatory statement to Amendment 104 . clause 47 - Parole Board rule Amendments make : 133 , page 46 , line 30 , leave out subsection ( 1 ) . see the explanatory statement to Amendment 104 . amendment 134 , page 46 , line 32 , leave out " subsection ( 5 ) " and insert " section 239 ( 5 ) of the Criminal Justice Act 2003 ( power to make rule for Parole Board proceeding ) " . see the explanatory statement to Amendment 104 . amendment 135 , page 47 , line 1 , leave out subsection ( 3 ) . — ( Edward Argar . ) see the explanatory statement to Amendment 104 . clause 51 - Power to make consequential provision Amendment make : 151 , page 51 , line 6 , after " section " insert " ( restrict parental responsibility where one parent kill the other ) , " . this amendment enable the Secretary of State to make provision consequential on NC37 . order , that clause 51 be transfer to the end of line 24 on page 51 . — ( Edward Argar . ) this amendment be consequential on Amendment 150 . clause 54 - Extent Amendments make : 136 , page 52 , line 3 , leave out " to subsection ( 2 ) " and insert " as follow " . this amendment be consequential on other amendment to clause 54 . amendment 137 , page 52 , line 3 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) section ( Part 2 : consequential amendment ) ( 5 ) also extend to Scotland . " this amendment be consequential on NC25 . Amendment 138 , page 52 , line 3 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) section ( domestic abuse relate death review ) ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) also extend to Northern Ireland . " this amendment be consequential on NC20 . amendment 139 , page 52 , line 5 , at end insert — " ( aa ) section ( information relate to victim : service police etc ) ; " this amendment be consequential on NC21 . amendment 140 , page 52 , line 6 , at end insert — " ( ba ) section ( Part 2 : consequential amendment ) ( 1 ) to ( 4 ) ; " . — ( Edward Argar . ) this amendment be consequential on NC25 . Title Amendment make : 141 , title , line 3 , leave out " individual to act as independent public " . — ( Edward Argar . ) this amendment be consequential on NC22 . third read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read the third time . as be appropriate on these occasion , I want to put on record , if I may , my gratitude and my thank to the official who have work on this Bill in the Ministry of Justice and my private office ; the fantastic Nikki Jones , who have manage this Bill through the Commons as an official ; the Whips , the Parliamentary Business and Legislation Committee and the Lord President of the Council for her assistance ; and my parliamentary private Secretary until he be make a Whip a few short week ago , my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Aaron Bell ) . most importantly , I would like to thank the victim who have contribute to this , as well as the stakeholder , the organisation and the campaigner . I should also express once again my gratitude to Opposition Front Benchers for their constructive approach and tone throughout , particularly on those long day in Committee , and I congratulate the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) . this Bill have as a central objective to ensure that victim be treat like participant in the justice process rather than bystander . it be no less than they deserve , and it represent a major step forward , build on the progress make for victim in the last decade . the Bill have be a long time in the making , but get it into law will strengthen the voice of victim of crime and major incident in our criminal justice system so that they can be support to recover and see justice do . it be not only the right thing to do ; our hope and belief be that it will also enable we to bring more criminal to justice , keep the british people safe and provide they with the support they need . this Bill in many way represent the very good of this House and its ability to make meaningful change for the people who send we here and the people we serve , and I pay tribute to member on both side for their contribution in get we to this point . mindful of the tone and spirit in which these debate have be conduct , I will conclude to allow the shadow Secretary of State to put she thank to her team on record as well . I call the shadow Justice Secretary . it be a pleasure to speak in this somewhat short Third reading debate on this Bill . I start by pay tribute to my colleague who do the lion ' s share of the work before my team and I come into post , particularly my predecessor my hon . friend the Member for Croydon North ( Steve Reed ) , as well as my hon . friend the Members for Cardiff North ( Anna McMorrin ) and for Lewisham West and Penge ( Ellie Reeves ) and the entire shadow Justice team . I thank the Clerks , the House staff and Library specialist for facilitate all the debate on this Bill , and all the external organisation and individual — include Dame Vera Baird , Nicole Jacobs , Claire Waxman , Ken Sutton , Women ' s aid , SafeLives , Rape Crisis and Hillsborough Law now — that have engage extensively with the shadow Front - Bench team on this Bill . I acknowledge the constructive tone with which the Minister have approach the legislation , as well as that of hon . member who have contribute to our proceeding , particularly those who take the Bill through Committee . may I also congratulate my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) on her relentless and persistent campaign on behalf of the victim of the infected blood scandal ? she have win a tremendous victory for they this evening . we will support the passage of the Bill . we have be call on the Government to bring forward a victim Bill for over eight year . we do believe it be some progress , but it do not go far enough , and the Government could and should have go far . I be sure we will return to those debate in the other place . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read the third time and pass . business without Debate Deferred Divisions Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order No . 41a ( 3 ) ) , that , at this day ' s sit , Standing Order No . 41a ( defer division ) shall not apply to the Motion in the name of Secretary Mark Harper relate to Climate Change . — ( Aaron Bell . ) question agree to . delegate Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Climate Change that the draft Vehicle Emissions Trading Schemes Order 2023 , which be lay before this House on 16 October , in the last Session of Parliament , be approve . — ( Aaron Bell . ) Debbie Abrahams Bim Afolami Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Lucy Allan Fleur Anderson Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Jon Ashworth Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Shaun Bailey Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Paula Barker Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Hilary Benn Paul Beresford Clive Betts Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Paul Blomfield Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Ben Bradshaw Graham Brady Kevin Brennan Jack Brereton Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Lyn Brown Nick Brown Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Chris Bryant Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Richard Burgon Rob Butler Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Lisa Cameron Alan Campbell Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Sarah Champion Jo Churchill Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Jeremy Corbyn Alberto Costa Robert Courts Neil Coyle Stella Creasy Virginia Crosbie John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton James Daly Wayne David David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Alex Davies - Jones Dehenna Davison Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Anneliese Dodds Michelle Donelan Steve Double Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Oliver Dowden Flick Drummond Rosie Duffield Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Jonathan Edwards Ruth Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Julie Elliott Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Chris Elmore Natalie Elphicke Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson George Eustice Chris Evans Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Colleen Fletcher Katherine Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Kevin Foster Yvonne Fovargue Liam Fox Vicky Foxcroft Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Mary Glindon Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant Damian Green Lilian Greenwood Andrew Griffith Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Robert Halfon Luke Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Simon Hart Helen Hayes John Healey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Mark Hendrick Darren Henry Meg Hillier Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Philip Hollobone Paul Holmes Rachel Hopkins George Howarth Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Alister Jack Dan Jarvis Sajid Javid Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Diana R . Johnson Gareth Johnson Kim Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones Darren Jones Fay Jones Gerald Jones Marcus Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Barbara Keeley Greg Knight Peter Kyle Ben Lake John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Kim Leadbeater Andrea Leadsom Emma Lewell - Buck Simon Lightwood Chris Loder Jonathan Lord Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Rachel Maclean Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Alan Mak Seema Malhotra Kit Malthouse Scott Mann Julie Marson Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Kerry McCarthy John Martin McDonnell Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Ian Mearns Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Maria Miller Amanda Milling Navendu Mishra Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft Ian Murray James Murray Andrew Murrison Lisa Nandy Bob Neill Caroline noke Jesse Norman Alex Norris Neil o ' Brien Chi Onwurah Guy Opperman Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Sarah Owen Stephanie Peacock Mike Penning Matthew Pennycook John Penrose Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Chris Philp Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Yasmin Qureshi Tom Randall Angela Rayner Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Marie Rimmer Mary Robinson Matt Rodda Lee Rowley Dean Russell Lloyd Russell - Moyle David Rutley Gary Sambrook Liz Saville - Roberts Selaine Saxby Paul scully Andrew Selous Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Grant Shapps Virendra Sharma Tulip Siddiq David Simmonds Andrew Slaughter Chloe Smith Jeff Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jo Stevens John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Alistair Strathern Gary Streeter Mel Stride Julian Sturdy Zarah Sultana James Sunderland Mark Tami Sam Tarry Gareth Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Jon Trickett Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Shailesh Vara Valerie Vaz Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Christian Wakeford Charles Walker Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Suzanne Webb Catherine West Andrew Western Heather Wheeler Alan Whitehead John Whittingdale Nadia Whittome James Wild Hywel Williams Gavin Williamson Beth Winter Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Mohammad Yasin Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Daniel Zeichner Amanda Solloway Mark Fletcher Adam Afriyie Ben Bradley Suella Braverman Andrew Bridgen Gregory Campbell Bill Cash Miriam cat Christopher Chope Philip Davies Jeffrey M . Donaldson Richard Drax Iain Duncan Smith Marcus Fysh Paul Girvan Chris Green Jonathan Gullis John Hayes Adam Holloway Andrea Jenkyns David Jones Ian Liddell - Grainger Carla Lockhart Craig Mackinlay Nigel Mills Anne Marie Morris Lia Nici Ian Paisley Jnr Priti Patel John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Rob Roberts Gavin Robinson Jim Shannon Justin Tomlinson Bill Wiggin Sammy Wilson Greg Smith Karl McCartney the House divide : Ayes 381 , Noes 37 . question accordingly agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , National Security that the draft Counter - Terrorism and Border Security Act 2019 ( Port Examination Code of Practice ) Regulations 2023 , which be lay before this House on 16 October , in the last Session of Parliament , be approve . — ( Aaron Bell . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , National Security that the draft National Security Act 2023 ( Video Recording with sound of Interviews and Associated Code of Practice ) Regulations 2023 , which be lay before this House on 16 October , in the last Session of Parliament , be approve . — ( Aaron Bell . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , National Security that the draft National Security Act 2023 ( Consequential Amendments of Primary Legislation ) Regulations 2023 , which be lay before this House on 16 October , in the last session of Parliament , be approve . — ( Aaron Bell . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Retained EU Law Reform that the draft Retained EU Law ( Revocation and Reform ) Act 2023 ( Consequential Amendment ) Regulations 2023 , which be lay before this House on 16 October , in the last Session of Parliament , be approve . — ( Aaron Bell . ) question agree to . Committee on Standards Ordered , that Andy Carter and Sir Charles Walker be discharge from the Committee on Standards and Philip Dunne and Sir Michael Ellis be add . — ( Marcus Jones . ) Committee of Privileges Ordered , that Andy Carter and Sir Charles Walker be discharge from the Committee of Privileges and Philip Dunne and Sir Michael Ellis be add . — ( Marcus Jones . ) House of Commons Members ' Fund Ordered , that Nicholas Brown be remove as a Trustee of the House of Commons Members ' Fund and Marcus Jones and Holly Lynch be appoint as Trustees in pursuance of section 2 of the House of Commons Members ' Fund Act 2016 . — ( Penny Mordaunt . ) People with Learning Disabilities : Employment Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Aaron Bell . ) I thank the House for allow I to have this important Adjournment debate on a subject that be close to my heart and those of my constituent and my family . when the welfare state be introduce in 1949 , just a few year after the second world war , probably over 90 % of disabled people in this country have a job — they go to work . there be a number of reason for that . I think it be mainly because we be short of labour after the war — a lot of man do not come back — and there be a need for people to rebuild the country , so lot of people have to go into the workplace . but there be also a lot of support in place for people to go to work under the new welfare state system . we have some similar challenge right now . we have probably get over a million vacancy , and we have lot of people out there who be quite prepared to do the work but need a little bit of extra support in get the skill and do the job from day to day . nowadays — the Minister may correct I later — the proportion of disabled people in the workplace be probably about 60 % to 65 % . that be a lot less than back in the 1940 , so maybe we could learn some lesson from the past . we can talk about physical disability because we can see they . we can see people who be injure — those who have get a bad back or a bad leg — and all sort of physical disability . government and employer have come on a long way in the past 20 or 30 year to make reasonable adjustment in the workplace to ensure that people can do a decent day ' s work , have a decent job and play a part . in this debate , I want to concentrate on people with learn difficulty . whenever I talk about stuff like this , I always think about this young lady in Ashfield . her name be Jossie . she be seven , and this month — I think on 17 December — she will be eight . Jossie have down ' s syndrome . Jossie be not alone — she will not be alone , because probably 900 , 000 people of work age in this country have learn difficulty . Jossie ' s mum tell I that although great stride have be make in our educational system throughout the year , there be still a lot of problem and barrier when it come to transition from education to the workplace . she say that more need to be do . I congratulate the hon . gentleman on bring this matter forward . I speak to he before the debate . he be right that there be 870 , 000 working - age adult with a learn disability in the UK . only 26 . 7 % of they be in the workforce , so less than a third be in pay work . there be often a stigma whereby those suffer from certain type of disability feel that they be not capable of apply for certain job . do he agree — I be sure he will say yes — that more can be do in school to instil in young people with disability that their future career choice be not limit just because they have a disability ? that could be teach through work experience opportunity . in other word , give they a chance to do well — we can do that . I thank the hon . member — my friend — for that . he make , as usual , an intelligent contribution , and I totally agree . I be a strong believer that everybody in this country , regardless of disability or background , be good at something and that they can make a contribution to this great country of our and to society . they can go to work , or they can work from home — they can do something . historically , far too many people with learn difficulty have have a label give to they . I have see — a lot of people in this place have probably see this — people who have be call " stupid " , " thick " or " not worthy " , or it have be say , " they can ' t have a job like the rest of we . they can ' t communicate properly . " that be just wrong . like I say before , everybody can make a contribution . everybody can do something and have a stake in society . Jossie ' s mum Steph tell I that the most important thing for young people with learn difficulty be that each person be individually assess to ensure that the right opportunity be provide in accordance with their ability , and she be right . she say that it be important to get the balance right , not to under or overestimate a person ' s capability and to make sure that the right opportunity be available . that be right ; we should ensure that the right opportunity be available , especially for young people , to make the transition from education to the workplace . there have to be more support for those people . People with a learn disability have a right to work and to have a stake in society . they have a right to equal pay , opportunity , career progression and support at work . as the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) say , more than 870 , 000 working - age adult in the UK have a learn disability , but less than a third — 26 . 7 % — be in pay work . that be the low employment rate for any health condition or disability . many people with a learn disability want to go to work . on a weekly basis , I see people who want that extra bit of support to go into the workplace . Mencap , a charity I support , do some great work in this area . one of its survey find that 86 % of unemployed people with a learning disability want a pay job . that be a staggering number of people . they do not want to stay at home and do nothing ; they want to make a contribution . some 45 % of respondent who do not have a pay job cite worry about their benefit as a barrier to get one . I completely understand that . some 35 % of respondent who do not have a pay job cite lack of support to look for work as a barrier . some 23 % of those without a pay job who would like one identify inaccessible application form as prevent they from get work . it be terrible that people with disability who want to go to work find barrier in the way . hopefully , the Minister can address that in his speech . I be listen with great interest to my hon . friend ' s speech . he be right to talk about the barrier , which include interview process and retain people with disability . do he agree that common - sense change to interview procedure , such as practical , show - and - tell interview rather than an inquisitorial ordeal , would suit the talent of people with learn disability far well than the old - fashioned , conventional way , which be real barrier to fulfil their potential ? my right hon . and learn Friend be spot on . People of any age with learn difficulty face barrier . when we interview people , we should not always treat people equally ; we should treat they fairly . what might be a fair interview for one person be not always fair for another . we have some great initiative in this country . I do not agree with the idea peddle by certain group and some politician that people with any disability will be force into a certain group and force into pay employment , or have their benefit sanction or income reduce . that be scaremongere and political point scoring . we need to rise above that , because this be about encourage people with disability to be in the workplace . work be not a punishment ; it give we all a stake in society and be a good thing . on the whole in this country , people might not enjoy their job so much some day , but they enjoy get up in the morning , go to work and have the routine . why should people with disability be any different ? why should we treat they differently ? the hon . Member be make a powerful contribution . in my constituency , we have a number of good example of company and organisation that have embrace the spirit of employ those with disability . caf é IncredABLE be a social enterprise that be lead the way in facilitate training , employment and meaningful daytime activity for individual with a learn difficulty or autism . give the benefit that social enterprise bring to the life of those who participate in they , do the hon . Member agree that the Government should far support they so that more can be roll out across our constituency ? the hon . Lady make a valid point . there be always more that government and local authority can do , and thank goodness for the charity sector . charity that support people with learn disability do great work . we have a project call Rumbles in Nottinghamshire that run two caf é s , one outside my constituency and one in Ashfield on Sutton Lawn . it have be run for about 15 , 16 or maybe 17 year and be set up to help people with learn disability . there be a couple of pay staff who train young people with special educational need or learn difficulty in cooking , clean , do the washing , serve people and operate the till . those be great skill for young people with learn difficulty . it get they out of the house , and give their parent and family some respite . they get out and learn new skill and mix with people , make new friend . it be absolutely brilliant that we have these initiative locally . however , we have a slight problem and the Minister might be able to help I with it , because he come to visit the caf é early this year . this service , which be a lifeline to people and their family , face the axe . this brilliant facility be face closure after about 17 year in operation . the charity be pay the council a peppercorn rent of just a few hundred quid a year , I believe it be , but the council decide that it be such a good business it want to put the rent up to £ 7 , 000 a year and it also expect the charity to maintain the public toilet next door at a cost of £ 10 , 000 a year . the charity have agree to pay the £ 7 , 000 and it have some extra support to do that , but that be still not good enough for the local authority . the local authority do not realise that if this place close and go into the private sector , the young people with learning disability will have nowhere else to go . if this place go , they can not do their training and their work or meet their friend . I hope the Minister might be able to help and steer I in the right direction on how to convince our local authority to keep this lifeline open . my hon . friend make a really good point . Rumbles caf é — there be several across Nottinghamshire — do fantastic work with young people with learn disability , get they into the workplace and support they . do he agree that it be slightly strange that Ashfield District Council say that the closure of the caf é and kick they out of the building be about the money , when only a few year ago the councillor spend five or six time as much to give themselves extra cabinet job and put it in their own pocket ? my hon . friend be quite right — I forget about this — that just a few year back , this same bunch of councillor create five extra cabinet position when they first get elect , at a cost of about £ 60 , 000 and then create a political officer position at a cost of another £ 30 , 000 . that be £ 80 , 000 or £ 90 , 000 there , so their math do not stack up . in fact , their math do stack up when it come to give themselves hefty pay rise , so maybe they should take a long , hard look in the mirror . I thank my hon . friend for that intervention . Rumbles caf é have help literally hundred of people across Ashfield over the year . I want to give a special mention to a lady call Helen Storer . she be 60 year old , bless she , and she live in Selston . she have special educational need — she say herself that she have her own difficulty — but she live independently , on her own . she rely on the support of good neighbour and good friend in the community — it be a crack community — and she work at Rumbles . she volunteer there , learn new skill and make friend . she learn how to cook and other life skill , such as how to do housework and stuff like that , and she absolutely love the place . it bring she on leap and bound . place like this be a lifeline . it should not be about make huge amount of money . we should put people before profit in these sort of situation . look — it do make money , but it go back into the caff to help support people to learn those new skill to live independent life . it have no shareholder , just honest hard - work folk who be do the good for people with special educational need in the community . I have say it before , and sometimes I get a little bit of opposition to try to get people into work , especially disabled people . it be not cruel to get disabled people back into work . Most people , as we know from Mencap ' s own figure , want to work and want to get into the workplace . it be up to we as a responsible society to try to give the support they need to get in the workplace and have a stake in society . I often think about little Jossie and her mum and dad , and the challenge they face . when parent have a little girl of six or seven who have get her difficulty , they be always think , " what ' s go to happen to that little girl when she leave school ? " they want that little girl to have lot of opportunity . they want she to live independently and to be able to make some of her own decision and just do the simple thing in life — to go out and shop , run the house , budget , have friend and have a social life . that be so important . not everybody like Jossie can live an independent life , but a lot can , and it be important that as a society we support these people . we be very good at give benefit away in this country to people , and rightly so — people need that financial support . with rent and council tax support , personal independence payment or disability living allowance , employment and support allowance and other bit and bob , a single person with learn difficulty can maybe get up to 25 grand a year through the benefit system . I always say that if we can pay somebody on benefit 25 grand a year for be sit at home , surely we can pay they that for go to work , whether the support be from a charity , a government - fund agency or whatever . I be go to close on that . once again , Mr Deputy Speaker , thank you for allow I to speak tonight . this be a subject close to my heart , and I know from my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for South Swindon ( Sir Robert Buckland ) that it be close to his heart as well . I look forward to see what the Minister have to say . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Ashfield ( Lee Anderson ) for secure this important debate and for speak with such great passion . he very much share my determination to do well in this area to help and support more disabled people into work and unlock all that potential that we know exist . in 2017 , the Government set the goal of see a million more disabled people in employment between 2017 and 2027 . I be proud to say that , by the first quarter of 2022 , the number of disabled people in employment have increase by 1 . 3 million , which mean that the goal be meet after only five year . by the first quarter of 2023 , disability employment have rise by 1 . 6 million in total since the goal be announce , but we be aware that this progress have not be even . those early success must be a catalyst for further change . we know that most learning - disabled people want to have a job , and evidence show that they bring many positive benefit to their employer . that be something I hear time and again , as I go round the country meet employer and meeting disabled people experience the benefit of work . but we also know that less than three in 10 working - age people with severe and specific learning disability be currently in employment . that mean that more than seven in 10 of this group be still unable to access the independence and sense of fulfilment that employment can bring , and that many employer be not benefit from the enthusiasm , skill and commitment that they can bring to their workplace . we be therefore work hard in Government , as an enabler and with other , to support learning - disabled people to secure , sustain and succeed in employment . we be continue to improve the general support available to learning - disabled claimant when they attend the jobcentre . additional work coach support provide disabled people and those with health condition with increase one - to - one personalised support from their work coach to help they move towards and into work . that support be already available in two third of jobcentre in England , Scotland , and Wales . it will be available nationally in 2024 . we have strengthen our disability employment adviser role , deliver direct support to claimant who require additional work - relate support and support all work coach to deliver tailor , personalise support to claimant with a disability or health condition , include those with a learn disability . as well as this general support , we be provide a range of special programme that can help learn - disabled people to access employment . they will have priority access to the work and health programme in England and Wales . intensive personalise employment support provision have also be available in England and Wales , provide highly personalise package of specialist employment support for disabled people and people with health condition to achieve sustained employment . the local support employment programme help people with learn difficulty and / or autism to find and retain work through intensive one - to - one support and an evidence - base approach to support employment . local support employment aim to develop a sustainable model by give intensive one - to - one support to those face with significant barrier to work . we have fund 23 lead local authority to deliver local support employment in 28 local authority area in England and Wales from November 2022 until March 2025 . over that period , LSE will help about 2 , 000 people to move into and stay in work . an average of 90 participant in each of the 28 local authority area be set to benefit from £ 7 . 4 million in grant funding and support which will include the assignment of job coach who can carry out vocational profiling , engage employer and provide in - work support to enable this group to enter and maintain employment in the open labour market . the spring Budget confirm funding for a new employment programme call universal support , which will use the prove support employment model to help inactive disabled people , people with health condition and those face additional barrier to employment into sustained work — do more of what we know succeed in secure meaningful outcome for people . one of the aspect of the coverage of this issue that frustrate I the most be the failure to recognise that it be as important to focus on retention as it be to focus on job start , and that both must be see in tandem . that be precisely what universal support will help we to do . eligible learning - disabled people will be able to opt into receive up to 12 month of " place and train " support help they to move quickly into suitable work , follow by wraparound support to help they to sustain that employment in the long term . I be pleased to confirm that follow the announcement in the late autumn statement , we be expand the universal support scheme to enable it to provide support for 100 , 000 people a year once it have be fully roll out , an increase on the 50 , 000 place a year announce in the spring Budget . we know that many learning - disabled people will require workplace adjustment to secure and retain employment , and the access to work scheme can undoubtedly help with the extra cost of work , beyond those involve in standard workplace adjustment . access to work contribute to the disability - relate extra cost of work face by disabled people and those with a health condition in the workplace that be beyond the cost of standard reasonable adjustment , and include the provision of support worker , specialist aid and equipment , and help with travel to and from work . as part of the scheme , we be test an " adjustment passport " in a variety of setting to establish whether it can reduce the need for assessment when the requirement remain the same and need to be " passporte " around to help a person enter into a role and then make progress within it , as well as make conversation with employer easy . we recently launch an access to work adjustment planner , which will be roll out to all university and high education college . the planner collect key information about a student ' s adjustment need which can be easily share with prospective employer . trial result show that disabled student use the planner be more confident about enter employment . we be also test Access to work plus , a new employer offer that can offer additional support to employer who be willing to think differently about their vacancy and consider whether they can adapt , shape or flex a job to enable a disabled person to retain , return to or move into employment . that be relevant to my hon . friend ' s point about the key support that need to be available to aid people ' s transition into work , and available at various point in their life when they want to enter the workplace or increase their educational opportunity , and to maximise those life chance . during their transition to employment , learning - disabled young people can benefit from support internship , which be aim at those with a learn disability or autism who have an education , health and care plan . support Internships usually last for 12 month , contribute to the long - term career goal of young people and match their capability . alongside their time with an employer , support intern receive support from a specialist job coach and complete a personalised study programme deliver by the school or college , which include the chance to study for relevant qualification , if appropriate , and to receive English and math tuition at an appropriate level . while the Department for Education lead on this in England , the Department for Work and Pensions provide support for access to work where need and I would be happy to ask colleague in the Department for Education to provide further detail to my hon . friend about the opportunity that support internship can provide . separately , the autism employment review , lead by my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for South Swindon ( Sir Robert Buckland ) , have be receive evidence this year about the barrier prevent autistic people from start , stay and succeed in employment and how those barrier can be overcome . although the review focus specifically on autistic people , many of the adjustment and initiative that will benefit they will also benefit a wide group of people include learning - disabled people and people with other disability . I be hugely grateful to he for all his effort . I be grateful to the Minister and the departmental official who be here for their close work on the independent review . I be glad that he have make the point that , although we focus on autism , the wide point about neurodiversity must not escape we . as the evidence have emerge , the concept of a more universal approach to the way in which employer interview people generally seem to be the real answer , when deal not just with people who be diagnose but with those who perhaps do not even realise they might have a condition or issue that have not be diagnose or acknowledge . my right hon . and learn Friend raise an important point and I look forward to receive the final recommendation from the review , which will help to inform the forward decision that we take as a Department . I would be keen to pick up with he on that specific point separately from this evening . I also want to thank every Disability Confident employer out there for the enormous contribution that they make and for their commitment to support the important goal that we have be debate this evening . I be aware that my hon . friend the Member for Ashfield have a particular and very praiseworthy interest in help people with down ' s syndrome to succeed in work and in life . he refer to Jossie , an inspirational young lady with Down ' s syndrome in his constituency . he also refer to the great work be do by the Rumbles charity in his constituency , and it be an honour for I to visit Rumbles with he early in the year to see its magnificent work for myself and to meet Gina and Tamar and the energetic team at Rumbles who bring so much to that community and help to provide so much opportunity . I wish they every success in their work . I be keen to help this group and I have be speak to the Down ' s Syndrome Association about its WorkFit programme . on Wednesday , I will visit its site to visit two of its WorkFit candidate who will share with I their experience of the workplace and how they be support to find and maintain their job . as my hon . friend point out , the key to the success of the WorkFit programme be a bespoke person - centre approach for each candidate and bespoke advice , resource and training for each employer take part . as we develop and roll out our new programme , we will be keep this need for a personalised approach very much in mind , because — touch on the point make by the hon . member for Upper Bann ( Carla Lockhart ) and for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) — that provision be so helpful to people in begin to provide those early opportunity , precisely as Rumbles do and as the Step and Stone Bakery in Bristol do , which I have also have the privilege of visit . I meet the inspirational woman who run it , Jane Kippax and Jane Chong . I also visit Tapestry by Props Brewery in Bristol , run by the enthusiastic chief executive officer of that organisation , Colin Fletcher , and his team . and only last week , I visit the Fair Shot Caf é in Covent Garden , run by its founder and ceo , Bianca Tavella . these be amazing organisation provide early opportunity for people to develop their skill , and that be a model I want to look at to see what more we can do to help to support they . all those organisation and many other across the country can be enormously proud of the contribution they make to support employment opportunity . my message to the Ashfield Independents who run the local authority in my hon . friend ' s area would be that they ought to look at this issue in the round . the support that service such as these can provide be an invaluable resource , not just for improve the life chance and opportunity of the individual who work in those caf é s but for do right by the taxpayer and help to minimise cost elsewhere in the round . I hope that they will find a common - sense solution to support that brilliant provision for the year to come . I just could not be clear : these opportunity be life - change . work have such a positive benefit for people in so many respect , and those opportunity should be extend to all who wish to have they . that be our clear mission as a Government and I be grateful to member across the House for their support in that endeavour . question put and agree to . House adjourn .