Oral Answers to Questions Transport the Secretary of State be ask — Rail Infrastructure : East of England what step he be take to ensure that new rail infrastructure meet the need of community in the east of England . Mr Speaker , may I start by thank you very much for bring we all together at the carol concert yesterday , as you always do ? I trust that this next hour will also be in keep with the season of good will . we be deliver record rail investment in the east of England , include upgrade the midland main line , a new station at Cambridge South , improvement at Ely and Horley junction to increase passenger and freight capacity , and a new railway connect eastern town and city to Oxford , which will deliver transformational growth across the region . wixam new town in my constituency be build in the perfect location for rail connectivity , but over a decade after move into their home , resident be still wait for a start date to be confirm , let alone for a station to open . will the Minister work with local stakeholder and Network Rail to get sign - off for that line and ensure that my resident can finally enjoy the rail connectivity that they be promise ? I be happy to give that commitment to work with the resident . indeed , I recently speak to the Mayor of Bedford on that exact point . we be work at pace to get the station deliver . there be also fund requirement that involve the local region , which have be agree to previously , and we be keen to make progress . my hon . friend have refer to the Horley junction and Ely junction development , which come as very welcome news in October . the Horley junction development , in particular , be a very small project . it would be excellent to get a starting date agree for next year , with the business case sort out , recognise how that could improve resilience not only for passenger , but for freight and the port of Felixstowe . my right hon . friend have be an absolute champion for that project , as have other hon . friend present . we be keen to make progress . the Secretary of State and I be very keen to see the project bring in , which be possible only because of the Prime Minister ' s decision on Network North in October . we be look to make rapid progress on it , and I have hear my right hon . friend ' s call and will work to that speed . Rail Services what step he be take to improve rail service . the Government be commit to reform the railway and ensure that they be customer focus and commercially lead , with the creation of great British Railways to bring together infrastructure , operation and oversight of whole - industry finance . in the interim , the Department continue to hold the rail industry to account to deliver the punctual and reliable service that passenger and taxpayer deserve . in November last year , service on the west of England line out of London terminate at Axminster because of a land slip near Honiton . the same line have be close for nine day this month , and passenger at Feniton be unable to travel to Exeter or London . will the Minister ease the delay and cancellation for passenger in Honiton by dualle the track from Chard Junction to Axminster and add a pass loop ? with the Prime Minister ' s Network North commitment , £ 36 billion - worth of transport project will be go ahead in other part . I be happy to look at the project to which the hon . Gentleman refer . I should also mention that I be aware that there have be problem on the western and Wales route , particularly those come out of Paddington . the chief executive of Network Rail be also well aware of those problem and be take action to ensure that we remedy the situation . so many family in Pembrokeshire have son and daughter work away or study all over the country who will want to get home this Christmas . with such poor rail service into Wales , what assurance have the Minister have from company such as Great Western Railway that they will stop put on five - carriage train when they should be run 10 carriage ; that they will have a full roster of driver available in the day ahead , so that we can have a full complement of service run ; and that service will not be cut short in place such as Swansea and Carmarthen , leave my constituent strand late at night ? my right hon . friend make a very good point . with Christmas eve and new year ' s eve fall on Sundays this year , the team at GWR have to approach the Department because driver be request additional payment for drive train on those Sundays , as Sunday be still not part of a work seven - day week on the railway . we have deliver on that commitment , but the fundamental reform point remain : we need ASLEF and other trade union to ensure that we have a modern railway that work seven day a week . I can give he an assurance that everything be be do , but a lot more could be do if we could reform with the union ' co - operation . what role do the Northern Transport Acceleration Council have in Network North ? be straight , transparent and open , I will write to the hon . member and give he that detail , rather than attempt to make it up at Christmas time . until fairly recently , northern train provide a Saturdays - only service between Sheffield and Cleethorpes via Brigg . that have now change to one train a day , five day a week , allow people only an hour and a half to enjoy the shopping in Grimsby or the excellent resort of Cleethorpes . could my hon . friend look into this matter and contact I after speak with northern train ? yes , I will do so . we have discuss that service before and be look at a timetable alteration for the future . I will ensure that be look at with my hon . friend ' s point very much in mind . I call the SNP spokesperson . the Transport Committee , with which the Minister be fairly familiar , hear evidence last week that , thank to the cancellation of HS2 phase 2 to Manchester and the inability of high - speed roll stock to tilt on the remain west coast main line track , journey time to and from Glasgow could actually increase by up to 24 minute , even with the £ 50 billion Birmingham to London branch line complete . do the Minister think that passenger in Scotland will see that as yet another Union connectivity dividend ? no , I do not agree . in fact , when that matter come up at the Public Accounts Committee , the official who work on HS2 be able to explain that , where train tilt , they can do so at certain speed on the west coast main line . however , that do not actually require a tilting train : any train can go at that speed , provide the speed be on the train . hs2 train will also have fast acceleration , so I dispute the hon . member ' s point . some train on the west coast main line would be more helpful , I think . Road resurface what fund his Department be provide for road resurfacing . what fund his Department be provide for road resurfacing . Mr Speaker , before respond , give that these be the last Transport question of the year , may I put on record my gratitude to the staff of the House , and also to those across the transport sector who will be work tirelessly across the Christmas period to ensure that family can get together and good can keep move ? as part of the Prime Minister ' s Network North plan , the Government be provide a record funding increase of £ 8 . 3 billion for local highway maintenance over the next decade , which will enable local highway authority to resurface road up and down the country . pothole be a scourge everywhere , so I be not only very grateful for the additional Government funding , but very impressed by the responsiveness and the quality of work by Dudley Council ' s highway department . will the Secretary of State agree to visit Dudley , and would he support tight contracting framework by local authority so that utility company and other be make to pay for all the consequence of their substandard work ? I be very grateful to my hon . friend , include for tell we about the good work that his local authority be do to improve the quality of local road . utility company already have legal duty to ensure that their work and reinstatement be to require standard . early this year , we introduce a new performance - base street work regime to crack down on the bad perform company leave behind poor road surface repair that can lead to more pothole . those with high failure rate be now inspect more often and be charge for it , so company be incentivise to carry out good - quality reinstatement first time and to repair exist defect . as a civil engineer , I be always excited to hear about more money be spend on the highway , but be the Secretary of State aware of the Pothole Pro ? this be a machine , develop by Staffordshire - base JCB , that can allegedly repair a pothole in as little as eight minute . should that sort of technology be roll out across the country so that we do not just spend more money , but spend it more effectively ? my hon . friend be right to highlight the importance of tool to deliver increase productivity so that we get more for what we spend . I be lucky enough to visit JCB myself and see the Pothole Pro in action , as well as the innovative work it be do , as a fantastic world leader in innovation , on some of its hydrogen engine for its mobile off - road machinery . I be sure that local council will look carefully at the Pothole Pro and other technology that can help we make the good use of that record investment in road improvement . the Secretary of State will know that we all want good road , but we also want safe road . can I draw his attention to the dreadful road accident kill young people recently ? be he aware that over the last 13 year , from be one of the safe place in the world in term of road safety and death on the road , we be steadily become very bad indeed ? will he do something about that , if he can ? I of course share the hon . Gentleman ' s concern about the death of anyone on the road , but particularly of young people . I do not recognise the characterisation he have set out . our road safety record remain one of the good in the world . [ interruption . ] well , it do . the Department spend a great deal of resource on campaign to get people to drive more safely , and we do that when we be engineer and deliver new road . safety be one of the very important thing that we think about as we design and roll out new road infrastructure . furness Line Electrification what assessment he have make of the potential merit of electrify the furness line . northern be develop a final business case for a new fleet that will bring new train to my hon . friend ' s route , and include option for greener technology such as battery . we be also work with the great British Railways transition team to assess option to decarbonise the whole network . I thank the Minister for his answer . he will be delighted to know that , for once , I be go to ask not about the quality of service on the furness line , but rather about capacity . the Government recently announce , through the Network North deal , the electrification of the energy coast line . that will take 150 million tonne of freight off that line every year and be hugely welcome . through the SSN - AUKUS programme and the dreadnought programme , and the doubling of the size of the shipyard in Barrow , a similar amount of freight will be need go the other way . will the Minister meet I and the wide Team Barrow board to discuss the merit of electrify the furness line ? as my hon . friend know , my official be active member of Team Barrow , alongside the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities and local partner , recognise the national significance of the submarine programme . work be ongoing , look at improvement to the a590 , and at option for the rail industry to improve the local rail network . I would be delighted to meet my hon . friend to discuss that work . sustainable Aviation Fuel when he plan to publish further information on the UK sustainable aviation fuel mandate . after four year in Parliament , this be my maiden voyage at the Dispatch Box . [ interruption . ] indeed , it be Christmas come early , and it be a gift that the first question I be ask come from the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) . the UK sustainable aviation fuel mandate be on track to start on 1 January 2025 , with preparatory work on secondary legislation progress well . we recognise that final decision on the parameter of the mandate must be take in a timely way to provide certainty for investment decision , and we will publish those as soon as possible . I welcome the Minister to his place and wish he well in his endeavour . it be always a pleasure to see some of the 2019 intake elevate to the Front Bench , so very well do . I thank he for his answer , as the issue of sustainable aviation fuel be important for my constituent . to ensure that we do not overshoot climate target on the road to jet zero or net zero , will the Government consider introduce the SAF mandate under a greenhouse gas intensity scheme ? that be quite a technical question , but I know it be one that the Minister be well up to answering . I thank the hon . gentleman for that question . I more normally get ask concern about whether we be go to undershoot the target , rather than overshoot it , but it be a valid question . it be important for we that we be introduce the SAF mandate , and we must give certainty to the industry so that investment come in . we have fund 13 different company to set up SAF plant or do development , but we be look at all the different option and nothing be off the table . we will consider all the different proposal and publish our response to the second consultation as soon as possible . I call the SNP spokesperson . the Government ' s plan to have five sustainable aviation fuel plant under construction by 2025 look doom . we be fall behind competitor who have a head start on SAF infrastructure , and with hydrogen likely to be the dominant fuel source for aviation beyond saf , we also need hydrogen infrastructure . Grangemouth currently supply scottish airport with fuel , and have the right feedstock and infrastructure to turn waste and renewable electricity into jet fuel . what be the Government do to save Grangemouth as part of a just transition to net zero , and when will we see plan for a contract for difference - type scheme for saf ? as I outline in my previous answer , with saf we be generate a whole new industry . it be happen across the world . I speak at the International Civil Aviation Organisation conference in Dubai , and to aviation Ministers from around the world , and all be try to promote this industry . we be probably more advanced here than anywhere else in the country , and as I mention , we be fund 13 different scheme to get the industry go . I will meet SAF producer in the next couple of day , and we want information from they about what be need . what be need be certainty , and there be benefit from across the country in both Scotland and England . there be huge economic benefit from this , and it could create many thousand of job . Motor Traffic what step he plan to take to improve traffic flow in town and city . what step he be take to support motorist . this Government recognise that most journey in this country be make by car , and that be why we be provide comprehensive support for motorist through our plan for driver , which include a package of measure to improve traffic flow , and also through the £ 8 . 3 billion investment in road resurfacing . that historic investment in road condition will benefit all road user , as we have set out in early answer . despite the Secretary of State and the Prime Minister say that the war against the motorist be over , be he aware that many labour local authority have not get the message , with unwanted low - traffic neighbourhood in place , unjustified 20 mph speed limit be propose and traffic light phase deliberately to delay traffic flow , cause add pollution ? will he consider give advice to local authority that they should do all they can to improve traffic flow and not disrupt they because of some misguided dogma against the motorist ? my right hon . friend be right : we be pro - driver , but also pro - public transport and pro - active travel , and those thing be about give people well choice and make sure that council do not deliver anti - driver traffic management measure . the network management duty require local authority to manage their road as efficiently as possible for the benefit of all road user , include driver , which some of they forget from time to time . we have also announce new funding totalling £ 40 million specifically for improvement to traffic light to keep local road move , include deploy machine learning and artificial intelligence to optimise traffic flow to get car move . the plan for driver clearly show that this Government be on the side of Britain ' s motorist , but there be one missing link , which be rural road . when a rural road be close by a utility company or other , the diversion be not just a quick five minute , but often half an hour or 40 minute . Buckinghamshire Council tell I that the current fine system be just too low and the utility company shrug it off . can my right hon . friend take real action to ensure that council can properly fine utility company when they disrupt rural community ? my hon . friend make a good point that I be well aware of , represent a rural constituency myself . some of the benefit of investment in infrastructure such as broadband do bring with they traffic disruption . one of the thing we have put in place , as I mention in an early answer , be the change to make sure that good utility company will have much less inspection and much less cost involve in delivery . those utility company that leave behind a mess , and therefore cause that disruption over and over again , will face more inspection and more cost , incentivise they to do a well job for his and my constituent . I welcome my constituency neighbour , the hon . member for South Cambridgeshire ( Anthony Browne ) to his place on the Front Bench . for the past two year , part of the guide busway in Cambridge have be close due to a complex legal wrangle with the Health and Safety Executive . it have mean that bus be snarl up and motorist and bus user have have thousand and thousand of hour of waste time . will the Minister meet I to try to find a way to resolve this issue speedily and get Cambridge move ? I be not familiar with the specific situation that the hon . Gentleman raise about a dispute with the Health and Safety Executive . I will of course make sure that the relevant Minister meet he to deal with this issue . I have to say that my previous experience of Cambridge City Council be that it be tend to implement policy such as its congestion charge scheme , which it have now have to drop because it be so unpopular . it be not focus on get traffic move , but be against the interest of road user . I be glad that he welcome that change . leed be one of the most congested city in the country , mainly because it be the large city in Europe without a rail - base public transport system . why do the Government have such contempt for the citizen of Leeds ? when will we see a decent public transport system in our city ? that be an extraordinary question , give that the Government have , in the Network North announcement that the Prime Minister make , put aside £ 2 . 5 billion for a mass transit system in Leeds so that leed no long remain one of the large city in Europe without one . I have to say that that investment in Leeds to benefit his constituent be possible only because of the choice that this Government make to cancel the second phase of HS2 and to spend the money on that mass transit system in Leeds . I be surprised that the hon . Gentleman do not welcome that significant investment for his constituent . high Speed 2 what estimate he have make of the net cost to the public purse of land purchase and plan for sale in connection with HS2 phase 2 . what estimate he have make of the net cost to the public purse of land purchase and plan for sale in connection with HS2 phase 2 . as of October 2023 , a total of £ 573 million have be spend acquire land and property asset on phase 2 . that include all property asset type , such as plot of land , farmland , farm , commercial property and domestic property . any land and property asset that be no long require will be sell , and a programme be be develop to do that . datum from the High - Speed Rail Group suggest that the Government ' s fire sale of land on the former Birmingham to Manchester stretch of HS2 will cost taxpayer a staggering £ 100 million . but they be not content with waste taxpayer ' money and deny we the high - speed rail in the north that we deserve ; Denton and Reddish be not even set to benefit from local rail improvement . that would not be hard — I have one train a week serve Denton and Reddish South station . why ? I be glad the hon . Gentleman mention that report , because it be completely wrong . for a start , it state that £ 205 million have be spend on land and property , which be wrong — it be a different figure . what be it , then ? I just state exactly what it be , if the hon . Lady have listen to my answer . we have publish exactly how much have be spend : on phase 2a it be £ 273 million , and on phase 2b it be £ 201 million . property and land will be sell only when it be right to do so , ensure good value for the taxpayer and the community where the property be sell . it be my understanding that HS2 train be design for new track rather than the current victorian - era infrastructure . surely , that incompatibility will result in HS2 train run slow and in few train per hour for my constituent . can the Minister explain how decrease capacity across the network , slow train and reduce service will be well for my constituent ? again , that be not the case at all . hs2 train will be build to run across the network that they will travel on . I make the point previously that on the part of the west coast main line where tilting train go fast , hs2 train will also be able to go at that fast speed . as a result , the journey time to Manchester will come down from two hour and 12 minute to one hour and 40 minute , lead to a fast service for all , Mr Speaker . marvellous . as the Minister will know , I very much welcome the decision on phase 2 of hs2 . however , there be still an impact on many land and property owner in Staffordshire . we hear in the Transport Committee that it could take up to two year to get land back to those owner . will my hon . friend look into this urgently to ensure that those property owner — particularly farmer , who need to know when they can sow their crop — get that land back as soon as possible ? in the word of take that , I ask my hon . friend for a little patience . it will take time to develop a programme to ensure that we deliver value for money for the taxpayer and do not disrupt local property market . we will engage with the affected community throughout the process . where land can be rent back out and therefore put to use — farming be a good example — that be happen right now , and we will ensure that that happen even more so now that we have certainty about HS2 . I call the shadow Minister . between July and September , Ministers admit that ten of million of pound of taxpayer ' money have be spend on HS2 land , at the same time that the Prime Minister be plan to cancel the project . now , Ministers plan to flog that same land at a huge loss . even the party that crash the economy be still able to find unique way to fleece the taxpayer . will the Minister explain what safeguard he will put in place to protect the land and taxpayer ' money from this ill - judge and costly fire sale ? despite what I say about this be the season of good will , quite frankly that be complete and utter nonsense . as I have state , there will be a very careful analysis of the property that will be release . the Crichel Down rule require test to be meet , and only once they be will we return the property to the original owner at its market value . this will be do properly . we have deliver certainty : we have say that the route will not go ahead . what I be sure everyone along the line of the route would like to know be whether hs2 would go ahead under the Labour Transport team , or whether it would not , because of the Labour Treasury team . give they some certainty . UK Emissions Trading Scheme : Ferry Services if he will make an assessment with Cabinet colleague of the potential impact of the UK emission trading scheme on domestic ferry service . the UK ETS Authority will publish a second consultation on the implementation of the UK ETS in 2024 . we welcome any evidence in response to the consultation . we will publish a full analysis of the policy ' s impact in the Government ' s response to the consultation . the Department have not yet conduct a full assessment of the implication for domestic ferry . I be grateful to the Minister for that answer . he may be aware that there be many in the shipping industry who be concerned that include lifeline ferry service , such as those that serve my constituency , in the emission trading scheme could hinder rather than help the process of decarbonisation . the EU have already recognise that by give its lifeline ferry service a derogation until 2030 . will the shipping Minister — I know it be not this Minister ' s responsibility — engage with operator in Scotland and elsewhere to ensure that we be not hit by the law of unintended consequence ? I very much welcome that question . the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland be a doughty champion for ferry in those island and I know how important ferry service be for resident there . we have be very careful , across our transport decarbonisation plan , not to damage industry or sector . we have give many billion of pound in support for the whole range of different transport sector and domestic ferry be very much a part of that . I be very happy to engage with the sector and to meet he to ensure that the ferry can carry on transport passenger throughout Orkney , Shetland and elsewhere in the British Isles . I call the shadow Minister . thank you , Mr Speaker . I smile because I be welcome the Minister to his place perhaps half a dozen Ministers since I first stand at the Dispatch Box — but the good of luck to he in the time ahead . [ laughter . ] decarbonise maritime will require unprecedented investment in UK technology , with visionary policy and regulatory framework that limit ship ' emission and mandate the use of clean fuel . when will the Government follow the advice issue by the Transport Committee in June and streamline the muddle of 184 recommendation it set for itself in " Maritime 2050 " ? speak of which , we be promise a refreshed " Maritime 2050 " in 2023 by one of the Secretary of State ' s many predecessor . there be a handful of day leave . where be it ? I thank the hon . gentleman for what I be go to call his warm word — it be Christmas , a time to forgive and forget . the clean maritime plan be be refresh and we will publish it as soon as possible . we be take in and analyse a very wide range of evidence from a wide range of different people . the Government be commit to the whole " Maritime 2050 " plan , and we be invest over £ 200 million in the UK SHORE programme to help fund research and development to make shipping decarbonise . Transport Connectivity : North of England what step he be take to increase transport connectivity between city in the north of England . aside from the £ 1 billion investment in Network North , my hon . friend will be aware that the single big connectivity project in his community be the Northumberland line , a groundbreaking railway line that will connect Blyth and the surround city to Newcastle . I be delighted consultation have now take place regard a relief road for Blyth , which be badly need . as a result of the propose plan , which could see the closure of an exist road and the reroute of resident along a new road , many resident of Cramlington could see their journey time increase . keep the exist road open would address that , as well as save money . will my hon . friend agree to look at that again and see whether it could be achieve ? I be very happy to meet my hon . friend and Northumberland County Council , post the consultation . ten year ago , David Higgins , the then chair of HS2 , say that connectivity between Sheffield and Manchester be bad than between any other major city in Europe . since then , Sheffield ' s connection with Manchester airport have be scrap . we have a review of a tunnel under the Pennines . that tunnel get short and short until it finally disappear altogether . can the Minister say in what way — if any , because I do not think there have be any — transport link between Sheffield and Manchester have improve while this government have be in power ? as the hon . Gentleman know , a substantial amount of electrification be take place . he will also be aware of the city regional sustainable settlement , which will provide significant investment in the north . rail manufacturing : Alstom what step he have take to support rail manufacturing at Alstom in Derby . Margaret Beckett be not here . will the Secretary of State answer the question as though she be , so that I can call the shadow Minister ? my official and I have hold regular meeting with senior management at Alstom . we have also convene , under my direction , a cross - whitehall group to advise on way to support continued production at Derby , and on how good to support the worker who could lose their job . this must be a commercial decision for Alstom , but the Government have be work with the company to explore every option to enable it to continue manufacture at its Derby site , and local Members in Derby — include the fantastic colleague sit beside I , my hon . friend the Member for Derby North ( Amanda Solloway ) — have be raise these issue with I regularly , effectively represent their constituent . I call the shadow Minister . three year ago , the Government hail the deal to manufacture hs2 train in Britain as put the country " firmly at the forefront of the high speed rail revolution " . today , the job of the skilled people who work in that industry and build those train in Derby and Newton Aycliffe be at risk . there be just day leave to find a solution . will the Secretary of State , specifically , meet Hitachi and Alstom as a matter of urgency ? do he accept that if Ministers fail to act in the come day , the final legacy of this shambolic Government will be thousand of skilled job lose and hs2 train build abroad ? I be slightly surprised by the hon . Gentleman . he write to my hon . friend the Rail Minister on 17 November , ask a series of , I be afraid , quite ill - inform question . I send he a comprehensive reply on 24 November , which I note he have not choose to publicise . he try to pretend that our decision on HS2 have something to do with this . I make it quite clear that Alstom ' s contract with Hitachi — their joint venture to design , build and maintain hs2 train — be for phase 1 only . phase 1 of HS2 be continue . that position be reiterate by Alstom group ' s chief executive in his commentary on its recent result . I have meet both Alstom and Hitachi regularly since the decision on Network North . I be afraid that Alstom ' s problem predate our decision on HS2 , and the hon . Gentleman ' s attempt to play party politic on this incredibly serious matter , on which the Government be work very hard on a cross - party basis with the company and the trade union , be beneath he . Transport Workforce : Migration what discussion he have have with Cabinet colleague on the potential impact of Government proposal to reduce net migration on the transport sector workforce . I regularly engage with Cabinet colleague on Government policy , include migration , and my Department work closely with organisation across the transport industry to understand the sector ' s concern about the transport labour market . the driver shortage in the UK be far from over and , accord to sector insider , a " tipping point " be loom . figure from the Office for National Statistics show that there be 6 , 000 few delivery and courier driver in the UK in 2023 than in the previous year , and more than half the UK ' s HGV driver be due to retire in the next decade . what step be the Secretary of State take to ensure that this tick time bomb do not blow up in our face as happen during the period follow Brexit ? surely migration be part of the solution . it be disappointing that the SNP ' s first response to any tightness in the labour market be to want to import people from abroad . my colleague the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions , along with the fantastic official in that Department and our jobcentre network , be ensure that we provide skill training for those who be already in the United Kingdom so that we can deal with the skill shortage , as we do so effectively in the case of HGV driver when , during and follow the pandemic , we work rapidly to get more of they into the industry . Airport Security Scanners what recent discussion he have have with airport operator on the introduction of new security scanner by June 2024 . the Secretary of State have visit many airport to discuss the upgrading of airport security , and have see the new security equipment in operation . I know that my predecessor engage regularly with airport representative to seek reassurance on timescale for the next generation security checkpoint . most recently , I meet Heathrow ' s chief executive for discussion . I can reassure the House that I will continue this good work , and will shortly meet representative of the aviation sector to discuss the matter far . there be many visit already in the diary ; indeed , I will be meet the Airport Operators Association straight after this session . my Department — Order . I think we have get the gist . I be grateful to the Minister for his answer , and I welcome he to his new role . this new technology will greatly improve passenger experience at airport security . for example , it will obviate the need for those little plastic bag we all love put our liquid into . airport be worried about potential delay if the passenger scanner be introduce in one go for every passenger , as people will need to get use to the new technology . may I urge the Minister to discuss with the airport operator the phase introduction of the new scanner , to remove the possibility of delay ? I thank the Chair of the Select Committee for his question , which he ask when I give evidence to the Committee yesterday . I say he would have to wait until today for my answer . this new technology will bring huge benefit for passenger , as my hon . friend say — I think we will all be delighted to see the end of put our little bottle into those little plastic bag — and it will improve safety . the screening of passenger with these security scanner be already be phase in . the Government have long be clear with airport about the requirement for next - generation security checkpoint , and the deadline for implementation have already be delay several time , partly because of covid and other factor . airport be consult on the June 2024 deadline , and many have successfully trialle the scanner . they be already phase they in , and June 2024 be the end deadline . my message to the airport be that they should start implement they now ; they should not wait for the deadline . I will discuss it with the Airport Operators Association in our meeting immediately after question . Transport Decarbonisation what step his Department plan to take follow COP28 to support transport decarbonisation . our transport decarbonisation plan be probably the most advanced of any country in the world , and we continue to implement it . just yesterday , King Charles approve the zero - emission vehicle mandate , which require 80 % of new vehicle to have zero emission by 2030 . petrol and diesel car , van and truck weigh up to 26 tonne will be ban by 2035 . we have introduce the sustainable aviation fuel mandate , under which 10 % of aviation fuel should be sustainable by 2030 . similarly , we be push ahead in all the different sector . I welcome the Minister to his place . this financial year , active travel spending be £ 1 . 91 per head in England and £ 30 . 10 per head in Scotland — a 1 , 400 % difference between Scottish and UK Government priority . Decarbonisation need transformational investment in active travel , which particularly support accessibility , and it simply be not happen for folk in England . will he undertake to begin the long process of finally get England on the road to match Scotland ' s ambition ? I thank the hon . member for that question . we be actually spend more money on active travel than any other Government in history . as she say , active travel be an important part of decarbonisation and the route to net zero . her figure do not take into account the regional spending within England , which should be add to the total . I would be happy to write to she with the actual figure for spending in the UK . I call the shadow Minister . the Secretary of State tell the Transport Committee that electric car be cheap to run than their petrol and diesel counterpart . he also know that sale of new electric car fall by 17 % last month . the Minister have just mention the ZEV mandate , and I remind he that it be pass only because Labour mp vote for it . he also know that it address manufacturer , not consumer — supply , not demand . how do the Government plan to reassure driver that buy electric mean cheap motoring ? how will he undo the damage that the Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders say be do to consumer confidence by his Prime Minister ' s comment on the end of the sale of new petrol and diesel car ? my key focus in my decarbonisation of transport role be to ensure a smooth and successful roll - out of electric vehicle . the hon . Member quote one month ' s figure , but overall sale of electric vehicle be up 41 % this year compare with last year . indeed , a great share of electric vehicle be be sell in the UK than in any of the five major country in the EU — more than in Germany , France , Italy , Spain and Poland . it really be a record to be proud of . he be right that this be about supply and demand . we have stipulate in the ZEV mandate that 80 % of sale should be zero / electric by 2030 , but we also need to ensure that there be enough charge point for they . we have spend nearly £ 2 billion support electric vehicle , and we have a whole range of different scheme to deliver that . motor cost what assessment he have make of the impact of trend in the level of motor cost on driver . nationally , we have substantially reduce fuel duty . locally , I hope that the hon . member will welcome the £ 33 million investment with his local council into the A34 , which will help his local resident . Labour have reveal that the Government ' s delay to the phase - out date for the sale of petrol and diesel car to 2035 be set to cost driver £ 13 billion in high fuel cost . on top of that , petrol price have already soar and car insurance cost have go up by an eye - water 50 % in just a year . where be the Government ' s plan to tackle the rip - off price face driver ? I suggest that the hon . member read at speed the plan for driver , and go back into history and remember Gordon Brown ' s fuel duty escalator . perhaps his constituent do not remember the 6 % increase that be introduce by the Labour Government , but my constituent definitely do . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . as I say early , these be the last Transport oral question before Christmas , and we be back driver with an easy Christmas getaway . from next Tuesday , National Highways be lift over 1 , 000 mile of roadwork , which mean that over 98 % of motorway and major a road will be roadwork - free until 2 January . we be also get on with the job of resurface Britain ' s road , thank to the record £ 8 . 3 billion uplift in funding . early this month , highway authority receive the first tranche of that investment , which will mean smooth , safe journey and save driver hundred of pound in costly vehicle repair . local authority also have new reporting requirement , so taxpayer will know how that money be be spend . the Prime Minister make the right long - term decision to redirect money from HS2 towards the local journey that matter most , ensure that more people in more place will see benefit more quickly . that be what the british people want , it be what the country need , and it be what we be deliver . will my right hon . friend say when the strategic objective behind Network North will be announce and publish ? can he confirm that any project announce so far be consistent with those objective , and whether any of the HS2 funding will come to London and the south - east ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for that question . as I set out , the objective of the decision be to ensure that that £ 36 billion of transport spending , which we be reinveste in transport project , will benefit more people , in more place across the country , more quickly . we be invest £ 6 . 5 billion pound of saving from HS2 outside the north and midland , which will benefit his constituent as well . that include additional funding for London — order . come on boy , you ' re go to have to help I . I call the shadow Secretary of State . may I wish you , Mr Speaker , and the whole House a very merry Christmas ? why have the Government waste £ 95 million on technology to retrofit bus that do not work ? the hon . Lady will know that we have do a great deal of work to make sure that bus be compliant with the emission rule . there be some technical issue be work through at the moment , but I be not in a position to announce any decision yet . we will announce to the House in due course when that work be complete . bus service be disappear at record level , yet the Secretary of State ' s Department have waste almost £ 100 million on retrofit technology that do not work , because it be never test outside a lab . even for this Government , this be a shocking display of incompetence and waste . will he now work with those city leave with useless technology and ensure that the next round of zero - emission funding be target there , so that they can get on with the job of clean up our air and clean up his mess ? once again , the hon . Lady simply do not recognise the significant investment that we have make in bus service . we have announce a significant amount of extra money for protect bus route , we have roll out funding to deliver the £ 2 bus fare cap , and we have announce the money to deliver zero - emission bus and deliver the full 1 , 000 we say we would deliver . there have be a huge amount of investment in bus service , because we know it be the most popular form of public transport and we will always back it . my right hon . friend ' s Department have ensure that many bus passenger can benefit from the £ 2 cap on fare , but sadly Red Rose bus in my constituency be not offer it because the company say it be not compulsory . will my right hon . friend help I persuade all bus company to do the right thing for Aylesbury ' s resident , include by meet boss of the company that refuse ? I be disappointed to hear that news from Aylesbury . I would be delighted to meet my hon . friend and to invite the bus company in to explain why it be not take up the Government ' s generous offer . early this year , the UK Government pledge to fund a bridge repair in the constituency of the hon . member for Moray ( Douglas Ross ) . the Newburgh train station campaign be work to re - establish a train station that will provide a vital transport link . assume that strategic funding be not just available to member of the conservative party , who can I speak to in order to get that station re - established ? on her first point , we be work with the local authority to progress that scheme , which be announce early . on her specific point , I will arrange for the relevant Minister to meet she so that she can put forward the case for that scheme , and we will look at whether it be possible to do anything to help she . I know the Minister understand that open - access rail can provide well , cheap , more varied and more resilient service for passenger . in the next few week or month , how much rail network capacity do he expect to make available for open - access service from currently unused track slot , potentially from unused slot free up by timetable improvement and from service currently provide by the operator of last resort ? I thank my hon . friend for join I and other in the industry to discuss open - access rail on 27 October . I have today write to the Office of Rail and Road and the chief executive of Network Rail , ask they to review the unused access right and agree a timeline , so that we can get decision make more promptly . I hope to then give he more information . the Prime Minister announce the electrification of the rail line to Hull in October at the Conservative party conference , so will the Minister tell I what the start date for that work will be ? as part of the engagement exercise , which the Prime Minister promise , I have meet leader from across the north . last week , it be a pleasure to meet those from the region around Hull to discuss their preferred route . they make the point that the route should be prioritise because electrification have be talk about before , and I think that be a very good idea . I emphasise to the Government the point make by my neighbour , my right hon . friend the Member for Suffolk Coastal ( Dr Coffey ) , about press ahead with the Ely junction and Haughley junction scheme . Network Rail have do much of the preparatory work and be poise to get on with it as quickly as possible . I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise that scheme again . I know it be an important issue for colleague in the east of England and I be delighted that we be able to make progress as a result of the decision on Network North . I have discuss it with Network Rail and the next step involve the development of the full business case . Network Rail have what it need to make progress , and I know my hon . friend will be wish it every speed . over the past year , yet more people have be kill or seriously injure on our road , and the UK ' s record on that have plateaue . while we have accident investigation organisation for air , maritime and rail , we do not have one for road . the Government promise to set up a road safety investigation branch last year . when will that become a reality ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady for raise the important issue of road safety . I notice that the statistic she set out be inconsistent with those set out by her hon . friend , the hon . member for Huddersfield ( Mr Sheerman ) . she recognise that our road safety record be not go backwards , as he suggest . when there be a fatality , road accident be investigate by the relevant authority , and that remain the position . we learn lesson from accident , so that when we build new road infrastructure it have safety at its heart . will my hon . friend update the House on the progress of the potential return of the direct rail link from King ' s Cross to Grimsby and Cleethorpes ? my hon . friend follow my right hon . friend the Member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) and my hon . friend the Member for Cleethorpes ( Martin Vickers ) in raise that matter at Transport question . they be without doubt the strong lobbyist when it come to train timetabling change . she will have see the test train that run in June . my right hon . friend the Secretary of State say at the last Transport question that we hope to make an announcement shortly . it be something that we be work on . of the 4 , 000 zero - emission bus promise in the national bus strategy , only 660 have be fund outside London and half of those have go to overseas manufacturer . what be the Government do to help UK manufacturer develop competitive zero - emission bus capable of long distance journey ? I be delighted to meet and engage with many of the different manufacturer from the UK only two week ago . I look forward to discuss the matter with they in more detail . what conversation be the Minister have with Southern and Thameslink about increase rail capacity and run long service from Carshalton and Wallington , address the dangerous gap at Hackbridge station , and instal step - free access at Carshalton Beeches station ? I have meet my hon . friend and I appreciate the work that he do campaign for the station in his constituency . I have regular conversation with people from Govia Thameslink Railway , and I know that they have recently increase capacity on some busy service through Carshalton and Hackbridge . on Hackbridge station , I offer to meet he with a team from Network Rail to see whether we can address the matter that he mention . such be the excitement in Wales in 2012 when Conservative Ministers announce that they would be build the four - mile western rail link to Heathrow to open in 2020 that First Minister Rhodri Morgan describe it as one of the " most important announcement " in the last 50 year , but it be yet another broken promise . after more than a decade , when do the Transport Secretary expect the first spade to be dig into the ground to build the no . 1 infrastructure priority of the Thames Valley region ? when this proposal be first moot , it be to be a 50 : 50 split with Heathrow airport and the new runway , but matter change after the pandemic . we be determined to see private sector involvement in the railway continue . if there be a private sector proposal , we be very happy to support it , but these scheme must not come at the expense of taxpayer . the Under - Secretary of State for Transport , my hon . friend the Member for Hexham ( Guy Opperman ) see for himself on Sunday night the scourge of pedicab in the west end . with the Pedicabs ( London ) Bill have reach Report stage in the Lords , can he update the House on when we can expect it to be present in this place ? early in the new year . one train per hour stop on the Durham coastline , usually with two carriage . this severely limit access to economic opportunity in Sunderland , Newcastle and Middlesbrough . recently , Northern Rail confirm a new two - hourly service , but my constituent will only be able to wave at it as it go by , because the plan be that it will not stop at the station at Seaham and Horden . can the Rail Minister please use his influence with Northern to see whether he can get those train to stop ? I be sure that everyone wave at the hon . Gentleman , great man that he be . it be great to meet he when he come to the Department . we talk about Durham coastal service and timetable change . today , Transport for the North be discuss timetable change , so I hope that that proposal go through and that I can therefore give Durham coastal service the improvement that he ask for . may I encourage my right hon . friend to cut the money give to the West of England Combined Authority , as it spend it extraordinarily badly on vanity scheme for the Mayor , on cut bus service for my constituent and on pillory motorist with this dreadful scheme , which be hate in Saltford , for a bus lane on the a4 ? my right hon . friend make a very good point about regional Mayors , which be that we have devolve power and resource to they , but they be ultimately accountable to their constituent . I hope very much that if they be punish the motorist , the motorist will punish they back at the appropriate time at the ballot box . now that the blight of HS2 have be lift from North West Leicestershire , can the Minister update the House on when work will commence on reopen the Ivanhoe line , which will offer rail access for the first time in many decade not only to my constituent , but to our neighbour in South Derbyshire ? the Prime Minister ' s Network North announcement give that commitment on the Ivanhoe line down to Leicester . we be fully commit to that . I know that I be due to be meet the hon . member on another matter , so I will give he more of an update then . like many , I welcome what be go on with Network North , particularly the announcement of Ferryhill Station . when it come to the final assessment and decision , we need to ensure that the right question be ask , as the Green Book say . the right question be : what be the socioeconomic benefit to the town and village around the station , not to the gdp of the UK ? may I ask for that assurance please ? that be another commitment that the Prime Minister make in the Network North announcement . my hon . friend have campaign for Ferryhill Station for so long , and I thank he for bring it forward . the business case will look at the socioeconomic condition that he mention , and I be confident that we will be able to get spade in the ground for his station very shortly . LNER be go to consult again on alter the timetable to increase the frequency of train from Edinburgh and Newcastle to London , but that inherently mean a reduction in service to West Yorkshire , Manchester and Merseyside . that be very sad , and it be bad for the northern economy . this be not a timetable issue ; it be a capacity issue on the east coast main line . can we have some investment in the east coast main line , north of York , to remedy those problem ? as thing stand , we be unable to operate that service because the trans - Pennine route upgrade , which be deliver the billion of pound ' worth of investment to enhance the route that the hon . Member ask for , be currently be construct . that will provide the bandwidth . as I mention , today we hope to get a decision from Transport for the North that will improve service and add an extra service north to south . then , with the multi - billion pound investment in the trans - Pennine route upgrade , we will get east - west service improvement as well . in Hyndburn and Haslingden , we be hope to have a very happy new year , as we hope to hear the announcement that both Rishton Station and Church and Oswaldtwistle Station have be successful in the Government ' s access for all scheme . can any indication be give of when we might hear the announcement , and will the Government look favourably on they ? it be worth note that 75 % of all rail journey now take place from step - free station , with 220 station make step - free under Access for all . we have 300 in the list for the next batch , and my hon . friend will be pleased to know that her be in that long list . we will decide shortly which one to take forward next year . will the ministerial team stop brief against hydrogen combustion engine ? the fact be that hydrogen be on its way , in truck and jcb . cummin in my constituency be prepare for three year . [ interruption . ] when will the Secretary of State stop ? order . hang on a minute . do not take advantage , Barry , because I will not call you again otherwise . the hon . Gentleman be simply wrong . not only be we not brief against hydrogen combustion engine ; we be very supportive of they . I have be to Cummins . I have be to JCB . I have look at the fantastic work that be be do develop hydrogen . we have some world - lead company here . the Department be very supportive , and work closely with they . I commend the work of my disabled young constituent , Nathaniel Yates from Reddish , who have assess every single railway station in Greater Manchester . too many of they be not step free . we have the money for Reddish North , but when can we get the money for Levenshulme ? I commend that work as well . in fact , the great British Railways transition team have do a station accessibility study auditing every one of our 2 , 500 station . that report be due out shortly . I hope that the team can work with the hon . member ' s constituency to come up with some good datum and improve access for all . the key element of Scarborough ' s successful town bid be the station gateway project , but get permission from Network Rail to knock a new entrance into the back of the station be prove slow and bureaucratic . can the Secretary of State gently lean on Network Rail a bit , please ? I be grateful to my right hon . friend for that question . I be sure that Network Rail will have hear that . I will take it away , raise it with Network Rail , and get back to he to let he know whether we can make that go fast . the late of many improvement to Gloucester Station since 2010 include vital work on the station underpass and forecourt ; however , contractor cost have rise since the original station improvement fund award . will the Rail Minister agree to meet I and great Western Railways to resolve that potential issue ? I be grateful to my hon . friend and neighbour for that question . I be very familiar with the investment and work that be currently be undertake at Gloucester Station , as it be the one that I use on a regular basis when get the train to London . the Rail Minister will be delighted to meet with he to see whether there be more that we can do to take those matter forward . inevitably , concern about overcrowding will come up this afternoon at a Chiltern Railways drop - in at Marylebone with Buckinghamshire mp , so can the Rail Minister assure I that the Government be do everything possible to push Chiltern to improve ? I can assure my hon . friend that the Department be work closely with Chiltern as it look to get more rolling stock to replace some of its age diesel stock . there be capacity issue , as he note , because more people be use the railway , which be a great success , but we will work with the operator to ensure that it get the roll stock it need . Venezuela : threat to Guyana ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office if he will make a statement on the urgent threat pose to Guyana by Venezuela and the Government ' s response to it . Mr Speaker , you of all people know the importance of the Commonwealth — [ interruption . ] sorry — late night . we dare not ask where . I will not ask where either , Mr Speaker , but it be good to see my hon . friend here right now . we be deeply concerned about the recent step take by Venezuela with respect to the Essequibo region in Guyana . I know that will be a key concern to the shadow Foreign Secretary and Members across the House , and we share those concern . we believe Venezuela ' s action be clearly unjustified and should cease . we be clear that the border be settle in 1899 through international arbitration . the Foreign Secretary have make that clear in a recent meeting and call with President Ali of Guyana . the UK , country in the region and the international community have be swift to respond . I have be in close contact with partner in the region to urge de - escalation , and early this week the Minister of State for Development and Africa , my right hon . friend the Member for Sutton Coldfield ( Mr Mitchell ) , attend an emergency meeting of the Commonwealth ministerial group on Guyana , which issue a clear statement reject the use of threat of force against the territorial integrity or political independence of Guyana . Brazil and other country in the region have express their deep concern at the situation and warn against unilateral action that threaten the peace and stability of the region . the UN Security Council meet in closed session last Friday , at Guyana ' s request , to discuss the situation . we note that a meeting will take place later today between President Maduro and President Ali under the auspex of the Community of Latin american and caribbean States , CELAC , and hope that that will reaffirm the importance of a peaceful resolution to this important matter . we will continue to work with ally and partner in the region and through international body such as the UN Security Council , the Commonwealth and the Organisation of American States to ensure that the territorial integrity of Guyana be respect . I plan to visit Guyana in the come day to far show our support for the guyanese people on this vital issue . it be imperative that regional partner and friend across the House , in the region and around the world continue to press the Maduro regime to respect Guyana ' s integrity and to avoid escalation . I will try again , Mr Speaker . I be delighted to hear that the Minister be go to Guyana , which be an important part of the family of the Commonwealth . I be also deeply pleased that the two president be meet today in St Vincent to try to hammer out the situation . it must be of worry to this Government and to this House that a Commonwealth country be be set upon by a fail state because it want to grab land to do oil exploration and take oil . that be not an acceptable position to anybody in this House . the other problem be that the Brazilians be move troop to their border to ensure its integrity , and I be also tell that american military adviser be go to Guyana to help with the situation . the Guyanese have armed force of 4 , 000 ; the Venezuelans have 350 , 000 . I urge this Government to stand solidly behind Guyana , not just as a Commonwealth country , but as a country in South America . I remember that the last time there be an issue in South America , in ' 82 , it do not end well , and we stand for the oppressed . I urge this Government not just to send the Minister to visit , but to make sure that there be tangible help for the people of Guyana to encourage they to stand up for their right . the Government completely agree that the current situation be not acceptable . we be deeply concerned by the unilateral move by Venezuela over this region . our position be absolutely clear and have not change : the border be settle in 1899 through international arbitration . Venezuela must desist from its action . it have deliberately and unacceptably escalate the situation , and the people of Guyana deserve to be free from the threat to their country . we work closely with our friend in the region . my hon . Friend mention Brazil . of course , we have be in conversation with Brazil , which have take a robust stance . I know that my Opposition counterpart with responsibility for latin american affair feel the same way . we be , across the House , completely opposed to this sort of action . we want peace and stability in Latin America to continue for decade to come . we come to the shadow Foreign Secretary . I be grateful to the hon . member for Bridgwater and West Somerset ( Mr Liddell - Grainger ) for secure the question on this important matter . the action of Venezuela over the past few week have be provocative and dangerous . President Maduro have show a determination to stoke historical grievance , attack recognise international border and seek aggressive confrontation instead of good neighbourly relation . all that sound worryingly familiar , because it be the playbook of President Putin . we have challenge it in Ukraine , and we must do the same in Guyana . we often talk in abstract term about the importance of a rule - base international order , but this be its essence : that dispute be settle peacefully through proper legal and diplomatic process , not through threat or intimidation ; that settle and recognise border be not subject to change through threat or force ; and that the big can not bully the small . we must be resolute in stand up to those with imperialist ambition . I welcome that there will be talk between the leader of Guyana and Venezuela in St Vincent . I put on record my thank to Brazil for its leadership on this matter , include the deployment of troop along its border . those talk should be a mechanism to reduce the tension bring about by Venezuela ' s action , not a discussion about settle border or a reward for threat . the Essequibo border be settle more than 100 year ago in 1899 . have the Minister speak directly to brazilian or american counterpart , or to key regional body such as CARICOM — the Caribbean Community — and the Organisation of American States , about respond to Maduro ' s action ? Guyana be a diverse , beautiful and proud country with close tie of history , friendship and family with the UK . as the child of parent who come from Guyana as part of the Windrush generation , I be live proof of our shared history . for my relative , and for all the people of Guyana , this be a deeply troubling time . I be grateful that the Minister have indicate that he will go to Guyana shortly , and that the UK ' s support for Guyana ' s sovereignty be unwavering . what specific action be the Government take to ensure that , if the threat be follow through , Guyana ' s sovereignty be protect ? it be good to see strong cross - party support on this vital issue . I certainly recognise the right hon . Gentleman ' s interest in this matter from his personal perspective and from a geopolitical perspective . he be absolutely right : this be from the playbook of Putin and other dictator around the world , and it need to be call out and stop . we be grateful for the work that Ralph Gonsalves , the Prime Minister of St Vincent and the Grenadines , be do to facilitate those conversation . they need to be about de - escalation ; the border be a settled issue as far as we be concerned . the right hon . Gentleman ask what action we be take . I can assure he that there have be multiple conversation . the Foreign Secretary be absolutely concerned about this . I have hold conversation with interlocutor in Brazil , Colombia , Ecuador and many other place . I be in Argentina for the inauguration at the weekend , and I meet many interlocutor there who all share the concern . we will work with CARICOM , the OAS , the UN , and , of course , the Commonwealth , which be vital , to call this out and take whatever step be require . I call the Father of the House . I be glad to follow the Opposition foreign and Commonwealth affair spokesman in remind the House and the Minister that when the United States persuade the United Kingdom to go to international arbitration , the determination in 1899 be to leave that region as part of what be now Guyana , which become independent in 1966 . the dispute with Suriname be settle some time ago by agreement . this should be as well , and Venezuela should go back to solve its own problem and exploit its own hydrocarbon , if it choose to do so , as it move towards a more eco - friendly economy and preferably a well kind of politic as well . the Father of the House make a very important point . this be a settled matter , and Venezuela need to sort out its own issue . there have be step take by partner in the region to try to help open the door to Maduro , and he have respond in this way . it be unacceptable . we now come to the SNP spokesperson . I thank the hon . member for Bridgwater and West Somerset ( Mr Liddell - Grainger ) for secure this urgent question . it be indeed ironic that the day after the excitement of COP , here we be discuss the potential annexation of one country by its large and more powerful neighbour because of the discovery of a huge oilfield contain 11 billion barrel of light crude . it matter not that the 1899 border issue remain controversial for Venezuela , because it have to respect international law . I be pleased that the International Court of Justice have warn Maduro not to take any action that could alter the status quo , but can the Minister tell I what discussion the UK Government have have with representative of the ICJ ? have discussion be have directly with the Venezuelans on behalf of the UK Government ? to what extent do he share my concern that our previously weak response to state use dubious referendum , follow by the use of military force , to annex part of a neighbouring country , as Russia do to Crimea in 2014 , have embolden people like Maduro to believe that should he take military action , the consequence for he would be extremely limited ? again , it be good to see support for Guyana across the House . whether this be because of Venezuela ' s aspiration about oil or some other matter , whatever that might be , its action be completely unjustified . as the hon . Member indicate , we need to call it out . the 1899 border issue be settle . we support Guyana in its effort to resolve this matter in whichever way it want to through the ICJ , but it need to be do peacefully . the hon . Gentleman also make an important point about Russia . these action be opportunistic . there be huge issue geopolitically , and dictator or other Heads of Government should not seek to exploit these moment when there be far big issue at stake elsewhere in the world , so we need to call it out . as I say early , we be keep this under very close scrutiny and will take whatever action we think be appropriate , along with our regional partner . I thank the Minister for his response to the urgent question , and my hon . friend the Member for Bridgwater and West Somerset ( Mr Liddell - Grainger ) for secure it . I also thank the shadow Foreign Secretary , the right hon . member for Tottenham ( Mr Lammy ) , for his response . I do not often find myself in agreement with he , but , on this , I could not fault he on a single word . both have raise the key strategic role that Brazil play in the region . we be about to sign a defence partnership agreement with Brazil — in the not too distant future — so it play a key strategic role . what far can the Minister do , particularly when he visit Guyana , to have enhance conversation with Brazil to see what role it can play in make sure that we keep peace in the region ? that be a very good question from my hon . friend . he know more about Brazil than most people in the House , and I respect he for that knowledge and for the point he have make . of course , we be work closely with Brazil . it have express its concern and warn against unilateral action . it have say that there be no way that Venezuela ' s military force would be able to access Guyana through Brazil , and we will continue to work with it very closely . as he say , we have a strong relationship not just defence - wise , but as we look to its G20 presidency and its hosting of COP30 . what we be see be a shameful and cynical move by Venezuela ' s President Maduro to threaten and bully a small neighbour . we in the UK must make it clear that we can not allow such threaten behaviour to continue , so what step be the Minister take , along with international ally , to affirm the UK ' s unwavere support for Guyana ' s sovereignty ? as I say in my statement , we have work with the Commonwealth ministerial group to call out this action in joint harmony with our other relevant Commonwealth partner . we continue to work with other international body to call it out , and obviously , we will be in a position to form a view — along with other in this House — later today , after the meeting that be take place in St Vincent and the Grenadines . I thank the Minister for confirm that the UK Government be stand with Guyana against venezuelan aggression , sham referendum and the threat of annexation . can the Minister confirm whether he have have discussion with the Commonwealth secretary - general about this situation to establish how the whole of the Commonwealth family can support Guyana at this worrying time ? that be an excellent question . I can confirm to the House that I have have conversation with Baroness Scotland . as secretary - general , she have take a very strong lead : she have issue two statement and call the emergency session of the council of Ministers , which as I say , my right hon . friend the Minister for Development and Africa attend . we will continue to work with the Commonwealth , which be a vitally important organisation in this context . do the Minister agree that whenever a country ' s border be threaten , they must be secure , or it risk undermine that country ' s sovereignty , social cohesion and national identity ? I could not agree more — that be absolutely vital , particularly in this case . Latin America have be a region of peace for many , many year , and it need to stay that way . it be great to see the House speak with one voice in support of our Commonwealth friend and partner , Guyana . the Minister be right : these border be settle in 1899 . they be the border that be transfer to the independent Guyana in 1966 , and they be the border that be internationally recognise . as the Minister also know , President Maduro have say that he will immediately issue licence for gas , oil and mineral exploitation , in direct contravention — as we hear from the hon . member for Argyll and Bute ( Brendan o ' Hara ) — of the ICJ ruling . what more be the United Kingdom do to take this case up on the international stage with Guyana to make sure that ICJ ruling be adhere to ? we have already highlight the work we be do with the Commonwealth . we have talk about the international engagement , and obviously , the situation be also discuss by the UN Security Council last Friday . we be take it at every single level , and it help if , in this place , we condemn with one voice the action that have be take by Venezuela . that will be note in each of those forum , so I commend the hon . member for his very important word . I thank the Minister very much for his response , and I be pleased to know that he will be in Guyana shortly — his presence will send a message . Guyana have an army of some 4 , 000 and a population of 800 , 000 ; Venezuela have an army of 125 , 000 , plus tank and aircraft , so it be very much the aggressor and the strong of the two country . when it come to the potential annexation of a democratic country by somebody who many of we feel be a demagogue , part of the axis of evil — that be North Korea , Iran and Russia , and now we can add Venezuela to that list — it be very important that we take a stand . as a country , as the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , could we not send a Royal Navy ship to Guyana ? that be the sort of strong action we need to see . it be good to get the last word from the hon . Gentleman — that be often his role . we be work hard through diplomatic channel to urge partner in the region to use bilateral contact and regional group to advise and mediate , in order to de - escalate the situation . I also bring to the House ' s attention the fact that HMS Trent be head towards the region to support action against narcotic traffic . business of the House I call the shadow Leader of the House . will the Leader of the House give we the forthcoming business ? the business for the week commence 18 December will include : Monday 18 December — Second reading of the Animal Welfare ( Livestock Exports ) Bill . Tuesday 19 December — consideration of an allocation of time motion , follow by all stage of the Post Office ( Horizon System ) Compensation Bill . the House will rise for the Christmas recess at the conclusion of business on Tuesday 19 December and return on Monday 8 January 2024 . the business for the week commence 8 January will include : Monday 8 January — second reading of the Offshore Petroleum Licensing Bill . Tuesday 9 January — opposition day ( 2nd allotted day ) debate on a motion in the name of the Leader of the official Opposition , subject to be announce . Wednesday 10 January — Committee of the Whole House on the Finance Bill , follow by Third Reading of the Economic Activity of Public Bodies ( Overseas Matters ) Bill . Thursday 11 January — debate on a motion on SEND — special educational need and disability — provision and funding , follow by a debate on a motion on jewish community and the potential merit of a jewish history month . the subject for these debate be determine by the Backbench Business Committee . Friday 12 January — the House will not be sit . the provisional business for the week commence 15 January include : Monday 15 January — Committee of the Whole House on the Animal Welfare ( Livestock Exports ) Bill . colleague will also wish to be aware that , subject to the progress of business , the House will rise for the February recess on Thursday 8 February and return on Monday 19 February , rise for the Easter recess on Tuesday 26 March and return on Monday 15 April , rise for the May bank holiday on Thursday 2 May and return on Tuesday 7 May , rise for the Whitsun half - term on Thursday 23 May and return on Monday 3 June , and rise for the summer recess on Tuesday 23 July . further recess date and business will be announce in the usual way . may I first put on record our gratitude to Mark Drakeford , a model of public service and public duty ? Mr Speaker , I wish you , House staff , Members ' staff , colleague , journalist , security staff and our public service worker a very merry and restful Christmas . I thank the Leader of the House for finally announce the recess date . one thing we do know about next year be that it will be a general election year . I say — bring it on . this be our last business question of the year , and there be a number of outstanding commitment that be promise before we break up . first , on the infected blood scandal , can the Leader of the House confirm that the Cabinet Office will update the House on the compensation scheme before the House rise , as promise ? as we discuss last week , the Government get thing badly wrong by vote against the amendment from my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) , and break another commitment to update we on progress would add insult to injury . give her previous personal and ministerial commitment on this issue , can the Leader of the House ensure that that statement be make next week ? a new process of risk - base exclusion from the parliamentary estate of member under investigation for serious violent or sexual offence have finally be publish this morning . I thank the Leader of the House and you , Mr Speaker , for the sterling effort in get we to this stage . give that we have now miss the original timetable of a motion on it before Christmas , when can we expect this to be schedule ? not only do the Prime Minister promise to stop the boat this year , which he have not do , he also promise to get his emergency legislation through in record time , yet there be no sign of the come Committee stage in what the Leader of the House have announce today — some emergency . it be no surprise , however , because the Prime Minister be too weak to push it through . yet again , the Conservatives be tear themselves apart , with star chamber , the five family and so on , but they be not star in a mafia saga . they be suppose to be run the country , but they be not fit to govern . while real family struggle to heat their home , put food on the table and afford Christmas , this lot be just play at politic . can the Leader of the House even confirm that the Committee stage will come in January ? in all their desperate attempt to persuade their colleague this week , report have emerge of enticement of Government funding to constituency in exchange for vote , and not for the first time . can she put on record that this be absolutely not the case ? the Prime Minister ' s emergency reshuffle have leave we with no disability Minister . give the Women and Equalities Committee ' s damn report on the Government ' s disability strategy just last week , can the Leader of the House confirm that someone will be appoint to this position before Christmas ? it have now be a full month since we have have a statement from the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , despite major global conflict . that be unacceptable — [ interruption . ] hon . member be say that there be one today , but that be thank to Mr Speaker grant yet another urgent question to bring Ministers to this place . the Leader of the House and I be both appear before the Procedure Committee on Monday , so I will not raise the issue of the Foreign Secretary come here now . last time I raise the lack of accountability , she assure I that the Government would regularly update the House , and that the Foreign Secretary be " forward lean . " will she ensure that we get a proper update on the unfold situation in Israel and Gaza before the House rise , and regularly thereafter , so that minister do not need to be drag here via urgent question ? today also look like " take out the trash day " , with a large number of write ministerial statement on important matter . will the Leader of House ensure that there be proper scrutiny of those issue , with no sense that the Government be duck accountability to this place ? finally , would the Leader of the House like to take this opportunity to apologise to 11 - year - old Liam Walker for the disdain and tone deaf response that the Prime Minister give to his plight yesterday ? the Prime Minister ' s sneer , angry response make he look small , and disregard of Liam ' s plight . Liam ' s family do the right thing , yet through no fault of their own , they be homeless . their story be the story of thousand of other family this Christmas . will the Leader of the House do what the Prime Minister fail to do , and show some empathy and humility , and apologise for how her Government have fail work family who be face destitution and homelessness this winter ? may I also take the opportunity to wish everyone a wonderful Christmas and a happy new year , especially all the staff who work on and off the estate to help we do our job and keep we safe , and all those who will be work over the festive period to serve our nation and their community ? 2023 have be a hard year . the british people have face many challenge , and I be proud of their stoicism and grit in get through it . thank to they and their effort , the economy be turn a corner and inflation be come down . despite the challenge , we have stand by our ally , in particular Ukraine . we have take care of each other , and we have crown our new monarch . I wish everyone a peaceful and restorative Christmas , with good wish and hope for the new year . let I start with the hon . Lady ' s final point about young Liam . I deeply regret her choose to paint Conservative Members as uncaring and non - empathetic . she know that be not the case . indeed , I pay tribute to one of our colleague , who I think be in the Telegraph this morning , who make heroic effort to prevent harm from be do to a young man who be homeless on London ' s street . I can give the hon . Lady that assurance on infected blood , and I be expect the House to be update on that important matter by the Minister for the Cabinet Office . she be right that the Minister with responsibility for disability be important , and I be sure that that reshuffle announcement will be make imminently . I also remind the House that every Department have a disability lead in place . I echo the hon . Lady ' s thank to all Commission member for the work do on risk - base exclusion . I think Mr Speaker have write to Members today , and we will of course bring a motion to the House early in the new year . I will also ensure that member be keep up to date with the ongoing and tragic situation in Gaza over the festive period . I know , as I hope do all Members , that FCDO consular service be there 24 hour a day for any hon . member who have constituent who need assistance . the hon . Lady raise the issue of our further legislation to stop the boat . I always find it amusing that Labour member be keen to see this legislation bring forward so that they can stop it . they say that they have change , but they have not , and I be afraid their action speak louder than word . they talk tough on border , but they have vote every time against our measure to strengthen they . they talk about equality while not pay woman a fair wage . they talk about a charter for worker while side with striker and eco - zealot who prevent they from get to work . they talk of fiscal responsibility , but would borrow a furth £ 28 billion more . they talk of opportunity , but would tax education and halve apprenticeship . the hon . Lady have talk empathetically on the cost of living , yet be very happy to clobber hard - work people who can least afford it with high taxis , the ultra low emission zone and low tax allowance . they talk of hope , but they would bring despair , as many in Wales be now have to endure . I put on record my thank to Mark Drakeford for his service , but I remind people of Labour ' s record in Wales . it be a good job that the nativity do not take place in Labour - run Wales . Mary and Joseph would have be clobber for an overnight stay levy . she would have have poor maternity service . the shepherd would not have be able to take the time off to bear witness due to cut in the rural affair budget , and the three wise man would have arrive post - epiphany due to the blanket 20 mph speed limit and the poor condition of the road network . do not fall for what Labour say ; look at what it do when in power . not all man who wear red and promise free gift be to be trust . further business will be announce in the usual way . I call the Father of the House . my right hon . friend have announce that there will be an Opposition day debate on Tuesday 9 January . have the Opposition tell she that they want to make it on the Leader of the Opposition ' s claim that he will bulldoze through local objection to development ? may I draw her attention to the website of a man call Chris Dixon , who say he be in favour of building on the gore gap in my constituency ? he say that people who want to stop that development should vote for I , and those who want to have it build on should invite Angela Rayner to come down and see it . will the Leader of the House say whether the Labour party be willing to expose its desire to build on green gap to public debate in this Parliament ? order . I be not sure that the Leader of the House be responsible for the Labour party . I know that the Father of the House must have tell the Member who he have bring into question that he would name she today . Mr Speaker be always right , and I be not responsible for the scheduling of topic for Opposition day debate . I know that my right hon . friend will have send a message today that if that be what Labour be minded to do , he will be there and spoil for a fight . I call the SNP spokesperson . Nollaig Chridheil agus Bliadhna Mhath Ù r a th ' uile daoine — [ translation : " Merry Christmas and a happy new year to everyone . " ] last week , the Leader of the House be unwilling or unable to answer my question about her Government ' s late immigration mess . instead , she give Scots another lecture from Westminster , this time about morality and her own global leadership . a lecture on morality from this Tory Government : pantomime season be truly upon we . be she talk about the morality of her " pile the body high " government , or perhaps recall the time her Government say , " we be break the law , but only in a limited way " ? be it the morality that allow water company to make a fortune in profit as child get sick swimming in raw sewage off the coast of England , or the morality that force family of service personnel to live in quarter so riddled with damp and mould that they be judge too poor for human habitation ? perhaps that be the morality she have in mind . could it be the morality of the return of near - victorian level of destitution across the UK ? perhaps she be think of the Women against State Pension Inequality Campaign . perhaps she could lecture they about morality and see what they have to say to she . before the Leader of the House launch into — mercifully — her last video nasty of the year , I hope she can answer my question today . it be the same question I ask last week , which remain unanswered and mire in confusion thank to her Prime Minister . this morning ' s statement on " Citizens ' right " might well address it , but we should have debate such drastic change before now in this place anyway . it be suppose to be the season of goodwill , but so many of our constituent be now deeply concerned and frighten by the announcement , so I will ask again on their behalf : if the spouse or partner of a british citizen be currently live in the UK on a leave to remain visa , can they be deport if their salary be less than £ 38 , 700 ? yes or no ? let I start by wish the hon . Lady and her SNP colleague a very happy Christmas . I point she to what the Prime Minister say yesterday in Prime Minister ' s question about further information come forward in the new year . I say last week that I fully understand that people in particular profession , include the armed force , will want answer . my office stand ready to facilitate any particular case or request in the meantime . transition arrangement will be announce shortly , as the Prime Minister put on record loud and clear yesterday . I do not know where to start with the hon . Lady ' s lecture on morality . she mention vulnerable people , yet this week the SNP announce that Scotland ' s national care service will be push back three year . she mention the armed force , but her Government be insist that they pay high tax , and this Government be compensate they for that . if she want to find victorian level of rat and ricket , she should go to SNP - run local authority . I think we should have a festive round - up on SNP morality : 12 hour of police question , 11 grand in roam charge , 10 year without school inspection , nine sham embassy , eight year of poor child mental health , seven year without ferry , six year shirk welfare , five hundred million overspent on Edinburgh ' s tram , four million to install a heat pump , three high - profile arrest , two overseas jolly , and a dodgy Jaguar ev . [ hon . member : " hear , hear ! " ] I have succeed in bring a smile to the hon . Lady ' s face . I must thank she for be the gift that keep on give at business question . I hope that in 2024 well thing be destine for the scottish people : well education , health , transport and opportunity , and well value for the taxis they pay . I hope that all their mp will come here , represent their interest and take responsibility for the authority that they be give . that be my Christmas wish . in the new year , can we have a series of debate celebrate all the positive thing happen in our constituency ? they include the £ 64 million of levelling - up cash for Marsden Mills and the Huddersfield - Penistone line in my area ; a brand - new A & E unit ; the west Yorkshire investment zone invest in Huddersfield university ; the trans - Pennine upgrade ; and wonderful community group such as those in Milnsbridge Village Hall and the friend to Friend group , where I will join pensioner tomorrow for a Christmas lunch . can we please celebrate these positive thing happen in our community ? I congratulate my hon . friend on all the considerable achievement that he and his constituent have secure over the past year . I be remind of the , very sadly , late Benjamin Zephaniah , who as guest editor on the " Today " programme insist that it be just about good news . we could all do with that occasionally . my hon . friend know how to apply for a debate in the usual way . I call the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee . I thank the Leader of the House for announce the Backbench Business for the first week after the Christmas recess and for the extensive list of recess date , which we will fill up our diary with . I mention that last week , so it be welcome to get the date in the bag . I be afraid to say that I be of such an age that I have be a school governor for 40 year continuously . [ hon . member : " hear , hear ! " ] I be the chair of governor at a primary school in Gateshead , where 52 % of the youngster be entitle to free school meal . holiday hunger be not a concept confine to the summer recess . can we have a statement from the child ' s Minister on whether the Government have plan to tackle holiday hunger in the winter break , when cold exacerbate the problem and add to the misery of hungry child ? I thank the hon . gentleman for this work on the Backbench Business Committee and for his question . he will know that it be the topic that the Youth Parliament choose to debate when they visit the Chamber . there have be huge focus on provision in school , particularly during holiday . if he have particular concern , I will be happy to raise they with the Secretary of State for Education , as the next question be not until 29 January . hannukah semeach , Mr Speaker . this evening , of course , be the last evening on which Jews will light their hannukiah . it be normally the time of year for joy , but for many Jews we be frightened to show our Jewishness on the street of this country , not least because of the appalling example of Jew hate we have see on some of the marche . but it be jewish student on our campus who have it the bad . at a recent jewish Society event at Warwick University , its WhatsApp chatgroup be infiltrate and fresher be call , " eff dirty jewish … " — I will not say the last word . visibly jewish student at St Andrews be egg and an emeritus professor at Bristol call for her follower to blow up the jewish Labour Movement . may we have a debate on antisemitism on campus , so that member can hold vice - chancellor , some of whom be do a good job on this , to account for what be happen on our campus ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this very important point . this be also raise last week in the wake of the appalling testimony that be give in the United States from three of its university . his question be very balanced , because many university be do a very good job on this front . I will just put on record my thank to the noble Lord Mann , the right hon . member for Barking ( Dame Margaret Hodge ) and my own fantastic parliamentary private Secretary , my hon . friend the Member for West Bromwich East ( Nicola Richards ) , for the work that they have do with other in produce a very good report on this subject . it be incredibly important that those university that be not do what they should do — we know there be no excuse , because the bulk of university be do a fantastic job — really get their act together . they owe it to this country and everyone in it , in particular the jewish community , to get that right . I again pay tribute to the work of the Union of jewish Students , who do so much work to combat the terrible antisemitism that be unfortunately linger in some of our academic institution . this have be a very difficult week for Pontypridd and Taff Ely . last night , a serious fire and explosion in Treforest occur and sadly one person be still unaccounted for . on Monday evening , three young man tragically lose their life in a car crash in my home village of Tonyrefail , and two people be still fight for their life in hospital . this awful news have hit our close - knit community very hard and all our thought be with Callum , Jesse and Morgan ' s love one at this very difficult time , as well as all those still recover . our emergency service act in an exemplary manner in both situation , and I would like to place on record my sincere thank to everyone who run towards the danger and try to help . sadly , in the wake of these accident distress footage from both scene and malicious , cruel post about the victim have be upload to social medium . some platform be quick to act than other and do remove some of the offensive post and footage . I know that the Leader of the House take a personal interest in online safety , so will she be willing to meet I to discuss a way forward to close the gap and tackle this issue ? I be sure that I speak for all of we when I say how sorry we be and how much our thought be with all those who have be affect by these appalling tragedy in the hon . Lady ' s constituency . it be terrible when one terrible thing happen , and I know it rock a whole community , but to have two such terrible event take place together be truly shocking . of course , I will be very happy to meet she to discuss what more can be do . she know I take a personal interest in ensure that social medium company take their responsibility very seriously . if there be anything we can do to assist her community , we stand ready to do so . Abdul Wahid be the head of the UK arm of Hizb ut - Tahrir . he utter the most vile antisemitism possible and praise the attack of 7 October as be a punch in the face for Israel . not only be he utter this vile abuse , but he be also an NHS gp in Harrow . there be a large jewish community in Harrow and they will be fearful of go to their gp in case he be the one who see they . may we have a debate in Government time on how we can root out extremist from public service ? in my view , his right to be in this country should be cancel and he should be deport . we must ensure that extremism be not allow in our public service . I know that many member will be aware of this shocking case . my hon . friend will understand that I can not comment on specific detail of what might be happen with regard to an individual , but I can say that the Community Security Trust have be record an increase number of antisemitic incident and hate crime , notably since the start of the current conflict . of course , these attitude and action be utterly indefensible and should not be tolerate regardless of a person ' s walk of life , but it be all the more shocking when that person have be charge with carry out a public service , especially one that require the trust and confidence of the local community . I be sure that this be not the last we will hear about the case that my hon . friend have raise . liberal Democrats have long support a community - lead rather than a developer - lead planning system , and my constituent be wait eagerly to hear what change the Government may make to the national planning policy framework . the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities have indicate , both on air and in print , that an announcement be due to be make this week . I presume that mean an oral statement to the House so that member can scrutinise any change that might be forthcoming , but I note that no such statement be to be make today and that , as yet , there have be no write statement either . can the Leader of the House please tell I whether there will be an oral statement from the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities on the change to the framework before we break up for Christmas ? as the hon . Lady will know , the next oral question to the Secretary of State will be on 22 January , and I will ensure that he have hear of her interest in this matter . in respect of legislative business , I will make further announcement , and the House will be update on statement in the usual way . the Leader of the House will have see the statement make in May by the Under - Secretary of State for Business and Trade , the hon . member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) , about excessive rate of pay for Post Office executive . there be a real challenge in my constituency , in that resident be not receive their mail on time , include medical note and financial statement , which can not be right . I have write to those at Royal Mail ask they to address this problem as a matter of urgency . we be come up to Christmas , and people , some of whom be elderly , can not receive communication from their family . this be not only an issue for my constituency ; it affect all of we over here . may we have an urgent statement on the Floor of the House about Royal Mail ' s performance , and in the meantime will my right hon . friend please ask the Under - Secretary of State to speak to Royal Mail , again as a matter of urgency , to ensure that the matter be address ? I be sorry to hear this issue be raise yet again . many member have already raise it , and I know that my hon . friend be work very hard to secure a well service for his constituent . I will certainly make sure that the Under - Secretary of State have hear about his concern , but I think that what we can all do locally be urge against action that exacerbate such situation , such as industrial action . on Tuesday , at the Premier League stakeholder ' meeting , discussion about the financial package deal between the Premier League and the English Football League break down . the representative of the Premier League can not agree among themselves about what that package should be , let alone come to an agreement with the English Football League . we be wait for the legislation that be in the King ' s Speech , because we need a regulator with tooth and a backstop that can sort this financial package out . it be essential for the future of our national game that we have a strong and competitive English Football League as the foundation for the Premier League , sit at the top , so when will we see that legislation ? I be aware that many member will want the legislation to arrive very swiftly , and they will not have long to wait . the hon . Gentleman know what I be about to say : namely , that I will announce it in the usual way . but I can reassure he that we be committed to introduce both a regulator and the legislation in good time . may I again raise the issue of potential job loss at the Scunthorpe steelwork ? as the Leader of the House will know , it have be raise a number of time , but this would not just affect those who will potentially lose their job ; give the importance of the supply chain , the whole northern Lincolnshire economy would be threaten . will the Leader of the House ensure that the House be keep up to date by mean of a statement , perhaps early in the new year ? I thank my hon . friend for the diligence with which he defend the interest of his local community and this sector , which be very important to the United Kingdom and our sovereign capability . he will know that question to the Secretary of State for Business and Trade be on 25 January , and he may also wish to raise it with the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero on 16 January . I thank he for his ongoing work on behalf of his constituent . many family in my constituency will struggle to heat their home and put food on the table this Christmas , and some will worry about whether they can even afford their home next year . business should be boom , but owner be crumble under soar cost and business rate , yet the business of this House after the Christmas recess look vague and out of step with their deep worry and frustration . can the Leader of the House provide some clarity for the year ahead ? I thank the hon . Lady for her question . she will know that , with the autumn statement , we have do a raft of thing to support small business in particular , from freeze business rate for the fourth consecutive year to particular support for the most vulnerable sector . the autumn statement take our cost of live package to over £ 104 billion . we stand ready to assist she with any specific need , but we make sure to take care of both household and business for the winter ahead . may we have a debate in Government time on improved education in England ? I be elect four year ago this week , when one of the top priority in my inbox be Hinckley Academy , which be inadequate and close to closing . fast forward four year and , with Government investment , the Futures Trust come forward and Lisa Hickman ' s stewardship , Hinckley School be now rate good by Ofsted on every level . it be a fantastic success for my community . this be exactly what a Conservative Government can bring to education . can we have a debate to highlight that fact ? I think that debate would be very well attend . we have an excellent record on education , and we have be right to focus on how we can have the great effect on social mobility and improve life chance . there be 30 , 000 more teacher and 10 % more good or outstanding school . we have soar up the international league table on literacy and , of course , we have transform the further and high education landscape with an enormous uplift in apprenticeship , which be now world lead . that be in stark contrast to what be happen in labour - run Wales and SNP - run Scotland . in all part of Northern Ireland , planning application be subject to scrutiny by the Northern Ireland Environment Agency , as be right and proper . however , delay in planning be often blame on planning officer when the delay appear to rest elsewhere . the chief executive of the Northern Ireland Environment Agency have write to tell the head planner that he will no long provide indicative response time for consultation , that he will no long accommodate prioritisation request and that he will no long provide a response to any request by telephone from chief planning officer . he be effectively say , " Don ' t call we ; we ' ll call you . " how can I well get this on the record and have a debate to make the Northern Ireland Environment Agency subject to proper timetabling ? the hon . Gentleman have find his own solution : he have get it on the record . I agree that hold - up , delay and the inability to rely on fundamental service be huge problem that prevent people from invest to get on with development . he have find his own answer , and I thank he for his diligence on this matter . may we have an urgent statement on speed up the Government ' s delivery plan on sustainable aviation fuel ? I have speak to global business , include Boeing and Airbus , and there be a very live and real risk that we will lose the race to secure vital international investment as these aerospace giant take their intellectual property elsewhere . will the Government seriously speed up their delivery plan ? their so - call revenue certainty mechanism be not due for completion until the fourth quarter of 2026 . if we do not act fast , we will lose this vital global investment . my right hon . friend raise a very important point . of course , we have do a huge amount and be currently consider to be world leader in this space . all credit go to the RAF , for some of the pioneer work it have do , and to the Virgin - lead coalition that lead to the first transatlantic flight on sustainable aviation fuel . he will know that the next Energy Security and Net Zero question will be on 16 January , and Business and Trade question will be on 25 January . I will make sure that the relevant Ministers have hear his interest today , but I also encourage he to raise it with they directly . yesterday , a brave group of woman lobby we in this House about lobular breast cancer . it be a much less know cancer , but thousand of woman in our country suffer from it , and the diagnosis and treatment be still not perfect . the wonderful people who lobby we yesterday tell I that just £ 20 million on research would make such a difference to get real answer in both treatment and diagnosis . will the Leader of the House allow we an early debate on the matter ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question and all right hon . and hon . member who go to the drop - in that take place this week to raise awareness of this important matter . good diagnostic be key to good health outcome , which be why we have stand up an additional 160 diagnostic testing centre to ensure that we be get through the remain waiting list . he will know that the reform we have introduce in the life science sector — which enable people , whichever institution they sit in , to work on problem jointly , as oppose to in competition with each other — have lead to breakthrough drug , and we have also have our investment and research mission for particular therapy area . I can tell that there be an appetite to do more in this area . I encourage he to raise it at the next Health question , but I will also make sure that the Secretary of State have hear what he have say . concern about dangerous cycling be become a major issue for my constituent across the Cities of London and Westminster , particularly with the increase number of e - bike on our road , which can reach 15 to 30 mph . my constituent be concerned about cyclist go up one - way road the wrong way , cycle on the pavement , and cycle through red light or over zebra crossing . do the Leader of the House agree that it be time that the Government look at regulate e - bike , and can we have a debate in this place to discuss this whole issue ? I be sorry to hear about that issue in my hon . friend ' s constituency , and I thank she for raise it . she will know that the next Transport question be on 8 February . I be sure she will take that opportunity to raise the issue directly with the Under - Secretary of State for Transport , my hon . friend the Member for Hexham ( Guy Opperman ) , but as that be a little time away , I will make sure that he have hear what she have say today . with respect to delivery company that use these vehicle , the former Minister , my right hon . friend the Member for Hereford and South Herefordshire ( Jesse Norman ) , write to the major delivery company to remind they of their obligation in this respect . the Royal Free Hospital be a jewel in the crown of my constituency . the maternity unit hold a special place in my heart , because I have both my child there and receive wonderful aftercare from the doctor and nurse there . I be very concerned to hear that there be now plan to consult on the closure of the maternity unit at the Royal Free Hospital . will the Leader of the House grant we a debate in Government time to discuss the potential closure of the maternity unit at the Royal Free Hospital and other hospital across London ? I be sure that all member would join the hon . Lady in singe the praise of the Royal Free , which have an incredible reputation . she will know that these be matter that must be consult on locally , and it be for local commissioner to decide what need to happen at a local level . however , I know that the new Secretary of State for Health and Social Care be keen to ensure that commissioner be do their job well , so I will make sure that she have hear what the hon . Lady have say today . I would also encourage she to raise it with the Secretary of State directly , as she may be able to assist and ensure a well outcome locally . I recently write to the then immigration Minister to raise concern about an individual who have be reside illegally in my constituency for 17 year . after repeat asylum application , rejection , appeal and abscondment , the Home Office fail to remove he . last July , he suddenly disappear and go to France , but when the French refuse to accept his immigration appeal , he come back on a boat . subsequently , the Home Office give he the right to remain . do the Leader of the House agree with I that that be an insult to all our constituent and to genuine asylum seeker ? can she help I to get a response from the appropriate immigration Minister about why that series of event be allow to happen over 17 year ? I will certainly ensure the Minister for Illegal Migration have hear what my hon . friend have say . this be a classic case of exactly what we be try to prevent from happen in the future . there be no silver bullet for get our system fit for purpose . many thing need to be do , and that be why we have bring through subsequent legislation to give we more power and , concurrently , to stand up new operational system to help we detect and deter such people . I encourage everyone to support further legislation that come forward , because it be have an impact . the number of small boat crossing be down by a third in the last 12 month and it be continue to drop . we have frustrate the business model of the people smuggler . we be stop they get access to boat and many other practical thing . process in the Home Office have increase over the last 12 month by 250 % . I think the case my hon . friend raise would be a good case study for the Home Office to look at . I remind hon . member that the Home Office be provide bespoke one - to - one surgery with all member if they need they , face to face or online . rise — order . just a little reminder that we have several statement and then two debate , so question should be fairly brief . in 2018 , I be approach by an elderly constituent who have fall victim to a bank fraud because of an abuse of trust . it take six month for the bank to admit fault . I raise the issue with Durham Constabulary in 2019 , but the case remain unresolved after nearly five year , mainly due to a severe lack of resource , with only one forensic accountant in the constabulary . tragically , my constituent lose her husband during this time and her own health have suffer , more from the stress of the long investigation than from the initial crime . this be not justice — we be fail victim of crime . will the Leader of the House intervene and give her advice on how good to seek a resolution ? I be very sorry to hear about the distress suffer by the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent . he will know this be an area of huge concern , particularly at this time of year , and the Government and our agency be run public information campaign to try to ensure that people do not fall victim to this kind of crime . every single crime must be investigate , and people bring to justice where possible . I will ensure that the Home Secretary have hear what the hon . Gentleman have say today , as Home Office question be not until the new year , and see what more can be do on the particular case that he raise . can we have a debate on anti - jewish business decision in the United Kingdom ? an advertising company call London Lites have a contract with family of israeli hostage to display picture of hostage on its electronic billboard in London . under antisemitic pressure , the company have breach the contract and take down the advert , deny a voice to hostage and their family , and play into the hand of terrorist . no doubt anything else whatsoever can be advertise on those billboard , apart from jewish victim of terrorism . what can be do about this scandal ? that be so depressing to hear and I thank my right hon . and learn Friend for raise the matter . business have to operate in complex environment . the situation in Israel and Gaza be highly complex and there be different view , across the House and the country , about what be go on , but some thing be really simple . stand in support of the hostage who remain in the hand of Hamas , nine of whom be child , show they support and keep they in the public eye be a good thing to do — it be not difficult to arrive at that conclusion . I hope that the company will reflect on what it have do and on the reputational damage I think it have do itself . I encourage all of we — business and individual — to show some compassion , particularly over the festive period , and keep a spotlight on these poor soul . rise — order . just a little reminder that it be important to ask the Leader of the House about something that be within her responsibility — whether a debate might be hold , for example . as confirm by the Institute for Fiscal Studies and the Office for Budget Responsibility , interest on the UK ' s £ 2 . 6 trillion debt will be £ 22 billion high this year than be forecast in March . it will now reach £ 116 billion , equate to £ 318 million of taxpayer ' money every day , or six time Scotland ' s annual NHS budget . will the Leader of the House make a statement explain the impact on public service in Scotland and across the UK next year , give the UK ' s need to service its grow mountain of debt ? we have just have the autumn statement , and the hon . Lady will know that the Office for Budget Responsibility say that we have more headroom than have originally be forecast . only an SNP MP could ask such a question when we be about to hear the Budget of the Scottish National party — a Budget in which it have no plan to pay for the public pay settlement that it have commit to , and which be expect to have a massive black hole . may I wish you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and all the House staff a very merry Christmas ? Carshalton and Wallington resident be excited to see the progress that be be make on the improvement at St Helier Hospital and on the building of a second hospital in Sutton , protect a & E and maternity service locally . can we have a debate in Government time to discuss the progress of the new hospital programme ? I congratulate my hon . friend on all his campaign success in get those new facility . it be not just about the brick and mortar , but about the healthcare professional who will operate in they . have a debate on this matter to look at progress against our capital programme , and the fact that we have smash our manifesto commitment on recruit healthcare professional , would be a jolly good idea . the Leader of the House be probably unaware of this , but I be a special guardian to my four - year - old grandson . Lyle be not unique in be look after by his grandparent ; there be 180 , 000 child across the United Kingdom who be subject to kinship arrangement . I understand that the Government will publish their kinship strategy tomorrow . it be a shame that they do not do so today so that we could have a statement . may I ask the Leader of the House whether we can have a statement on the strategy on either Monday or Tuesday , before the House rise , because so many kinship carer be anticipate what be in that document ? the hon . Gentleman make a very good suggestion . I thank he for all that he do in this respect , and I will certainly make sure that the relevant Minister have hear his request . last week , we have the launch of Ceramics UK in Parliament . the sector suffer from a number of challenge , particularly due to energy cost and the need to decarbonise . will my right hon . friend facilitate a debate in Government time about the support need for the ceramics sector and other energy - intensive sector ? I thank my hon . friend for all that he be do to champion his constituency , and this sector in particular . not only be an enormous number of job relate to those product , but there be a knock - on effect on the tourist and hospitality sector in particular part of the country . I congratulate he on raise the profile and the need of the ceramics sector . he will know that the next question to the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero be on 16 January , but I will write this afternoon and make sure that she have hear what he have say . back in February , the Prime Minister make a personal commitment to I on the Floor of the House that support would be make available for the bereaved classmate of Brianna Ghey . it be agree in June between no . 10 , the Treasury , the Department for Education and Birchwood Community High School that it would take the form of a package of funding for the school to cover the cost of mental health professional work with student and staff . it be now December , the trial in the national media spotlight be cause enormous welfare pressure in the school community , and the funding have still not be receive because the DFE be say that , despite the funding be approve , it can not work out whose budget it should be take from . there have be no progress since October , despite the good effort of the school and myself to raise it with the relevant official . will the Leader of the House please intervene and ensure that the Prime Minister ' s promise be uphold ? I will certainly do that . I think the Secretary of State for Education will want to cut through what sound like nonsense bureaucracy and ensure that people get what they need . I will do it immediately after business question . I suspect that my right hon . friend have not be invite to the social event of the year , which be Councillor Rachel Gilmour ' s yuletide knee - up in the village of Bampton in Mid Devon . she live in a lovely house , which she share with her husband . the chairman of scrutiny that she be , her party tonight be be pay for by local government fund , and that be not on . to be bask in the adulation of Liberal Democrat colleague by public subscription be not a happy place to be . the head of scrutiny have also refuse to scrutinise dodgy finance in Mid Devon ' s doomed housing company , which we have mention before . her failure to employ enough planning officer be a disgrace , and the whole liberal Democrat leadership in Mid Devon be an absolute disaster . I just hope that she remember to pay the rent on her rent accommodation . can we be tell , and could we have a debate on Mid Devon , please ? I think my hon . friend have get what he want on the record . I hope that his local council will reflect on how it be use public fund . what an act to follow ! [ laughter . ] follow the most amusing " twelve Tartan Days of Christmas " from the Leader of the House , I rise with slight trepidation . within the context of devolution , I have raise health many time in this place . at all time , the Leader of the House have be courteous and helpful in her response . nevertheless , the problem continue in Scotland . my constituent have to travel hundred of mile to see a dentist , they can hardly get to see a gp , and now the A & E service at Raigmore Hospital be refuse all patient . it would be a splendid Christmas present to my constituency if the Leader of the House would grant a debate on NHS service in rural area . I be very sad to hear about the ongoing issue in the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency . it must be incredibly frustrating for he . it be incredibly frustrating for we . he will know that the previous Secretary of State for Health and Social Care offer England resource to assist with the backlog in Scotland , and the First Minister turn down that opportunity . I think that be a disgrace . I will continue to raise the issue . the hon . Member know that health be a devolved matter , but we will do all that we can to improve the lot of his constituent . my local authority in Stockport state that the average waiting time for a blue badge parking pass be 12 week , but my constituent tell I that in reality the wait be often much long . in addition , the rigid criterion to quality for a blue badge lay out by the Department for Transport mean that people with genuine serious and complex medical issue be frequently refuse . that leave many people who be in genuine need isolate and struggle to find adequate support for car parking . the key issue be the long wait time , the need for additional resource for local authority , and the need to extend the qualifying criterion for those with degenerative medical condition . as such , will the Leader of the House allocate Government time for a debate on the blue badge scheme in England ? I be sure that all member have have casework relate to that . it be a complicated system . local authority have some discretion in the scheme . if the hon . Member want to give I the specific detail of his case , I will try to get some advice for he from the Department . tomorrow mark a year since the fatal crush at the O2 Academy Brixton in my constituency . will the Leader of the House join I in place on the record Parliament ' s condolence to the family of Rebecca Ikumelo and Gaby Hutchinson , who sadly die ? a third victim remain in hospital , and the Leader of the House may be aware that the police have open a corporate manslaughter charge . the family want justice . what step can the Government take , and can we have a debate in Government time , to ensure that family get a timely response to tragedy such as that at the O2 Brixton Academy ? I be sure I speak for everyone in the Chamber and the whole House when I join the hon . Lady in her condolence and memory , particularly for Rebecca and Gaby , but also for all those affect by that appalling , tragic incident , which be still very vivid in all our mind . I shall certainly make sure that the relevant Departments — there will be a few that have an interest — have hear what she have say . it be obviously a live and ongoing case , so I be not able to comment far , but she have do a great service by remind we of that anniversary and I shall make sure that minister have hear her word . we do have to be very careful if there be any ongoing case . I be sure the Leader of the House will join I in my praise and thank to London ' s Community Kitchen and the Sufra food bank , which do such wonderful work in my constituency , but will she do more ? in the new year , will she hold a debate in this place about the work of food bank across the country , not just so that we can praise and thank they for all that they do , but so that we can make they redundant ? I be very happy to join the hon . Gentleman ' s praise not only for that particular organisation , but for the many food bank across the country for the work that that they do . there be different model to how they work ; some be sustainable , with a focus on use food that would otherwise be go to waste , and with some there would be merit in their continuing . but of course we want everyone in this country to be confident about their financial resilience . that be why we have stand up an enormous cost of live help package — over £ 100 billion now — and why we have do so much to focus on lift people out of poverty , whether through the tax system , other local support grant or , of course , the uplift in benefit and pension that we see continue again in the autumn statement . he will know how to apply for a debate and I encourage he to do so . child with special educational need in Leicestershire have unfortunately often take two year to complete the education , health and care need assessment process . that is , at least in part , due to the chronic underfunding of Leicestershire County Council over many year by central Government . I attend Education question this week , where many colleague raise concern about special educational need provision , so could we have a statement from the Secretary of State for Education on how we will resolve this unsatisfactory situation in Leicestershire and , I think , in many other place ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . he may know that the Secretary of State for Education have a particular interest in this area , which be demonstrate during her stint at , I think , the Department of Health and Social Care . I will make sure that she hear what the hon . Gentleman have say with regard to his local authority area . many of my constituent be face the tough Christmas that they have ever face , with rise food bill , rise energy cost , rise mortgage and rent — it go on and on . they be face a cold and difficult Christmas . do the Leader of the House accept that this Government be too weak and divide to stand up for the british people , spend million instead on fail policy and fly Ministers back from critical climate talk to prop up a weak Prime Minister ? be it not time to call a general election and put the record of this fail Government to the test ? I , of course , disagree with the hon . Lady . we have a £ 104 billion cost of live package . we have double personal tax allowance . we have increase the national living wage . after the autumn statement , those on housing allowance will be receive an extra £ 800 on average , those on universal credit £ 450 on average and pensioner £ 900 extra . we will do all we can to get people through these tough time , but the most important thing we can do be to control public spending and bring down inflation , and I encourage those on the Opposition Benches to support we in that effort . again , I bring an issue of concern to the House — I be grateful to be able to ask an important question . on 28 November , iraqi christian leader make an official statement note that , due to the dangerous situation , it be clear that Iraq be not do its job of protect the right of religious minority . furthermore , some church have state that they will not hold Christmas service because of the volatile circumstance . you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and the Leader of the House and right hon . and hon . member will probably attend church on Christmas eve and Christmas morning without any fear whatsoever . in Iraq , that will not happen this year . will the Leader of the House join I in condemn the persecution of Christians in Iraq , and in call for reform and great protection for religious minority in that country ? I thank the hon . Gentleman again for shine a spotlight on the plight that individual in other country face because of their religious belief . I be sure that , whatever our faith , when we attend our service over the festive period , those individual who be less fortunate and find themselves be persecute and threaten will be in our prayer . I thank he for the opportunity to say that from the Dispatch Box . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . do it relate to the business question ? yes , it be directly relate to one of the comment that the Leader of the House make . on Report of the Victims and Prisoners Bill , the Minister of State , Ministry of Justice , the right hon . member for Charnwood ( Edward Argar ) , announce that there would be a statement to the House on the infected blood issue . it be not clear from what the Leader of the House say whether that would be an oral statement or a write statement . of course , I think that the House be expect an oral statement , so I just want confirmation that that be what will happen . these matter be often leave to be discuss on the very last day before we go into recess . I urge the Leader of the House not to allow the statement to be on the last day , if possible , because that send a signal to people — to the infected and affected — that they be at the back of the queue again when it come to the Government explain what be happen . the Leader of the House be still here , and I think she wish to respond directly . far to that point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . the answer be yes , with the caveat that the right hon . Lady will understand : business be fluid , event happen and there be demand for particular statement . she will know from her meeting with the Minister for the Cabinet Office that he be a very diligent individual . he care deeply about this issue , and I know that he will want to come to the House give the importance of the matter . I fully understand the optic that the right hon . Lady have describe . she will know that I can not give guarantee , but I hope that I have reassure she of our intent . COP28 may I thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , as well as all the staff of this House and colleague across the House , for all your hard work this year ? I wish everyone a very happy Christmas . it be a privilege to attend the summit in Dubai over the past two week . I be proud to represent a country that have cut greenhouse gas emission more than any other major economy since 1990 ; that have boost our share of renewable electricity from a rather dismal 7 % in 2010 to almost half today , while almost entirely phase out coal power ; that have lead the world in mobilise green finance ; and that be now ensure that we bring the british public with we on the transition to net zero , thank to the Prime Minister ' s plan to protect family from unnecessary cost and give people more time to adapt to change . while we be on track , the world be not . the global stocktake confirm that emission need to peak by 2025 and fall by 43 % between 2019 and 2030 to achieve the Paris goal of limit warming to 1 . 5 ° C . the current pace of global decarbonisation be well behind that trajectory , and the urgency of the climate challenge mean that we can not delay any far . the russian invasion of Ukraine have underline the importance of transition towards renewable , which be less vulnerable to price shock . that be why our objective throughout COP28 be clear : we need to agree urgent action to ensure 1 . 5 ° remain viable as a ceiling , include treble global renewable , double energy efficiency and phase out unabated fossil fuel ; and we need to reform international finance to unlock the trillion require in climate funding . today I be delighted to say that we have secure a final agreement that support those goal . for the first time ever , we have a global agreement on a transition away from fossil fuel . the agreement on fossil fuel build and expand on the UK ' s leadership at COP26 , which have the first reference to phase down coal power , secured agreement behind effort to decarbonise key sector of the global economy and , most notably , see the proportion of global GDP cover by net zero target increase from around 30 % to 90 % during our presidency . this week ' s COP28 agreement be not perfect . we want to see more action on coal , and on end the construction of new coal power plant in particular . like some of the small island state , we want great clarity and few loophole in the agreement . none the less , this be a turning point . we be unify the world around a common commitment , listen to the islander of the Pacific and elsewhere , whose voice must be hear , and show that we be respond to the science by move away from fossil fuel and raise a torch to inspire action . throughout the summit , the UK make significant progress on deliver that action , build on our legacy from COP26 . we be pleased to be one of over 130 country to support the global pledge to triple renewable energy and double energy efficiency by 2030 . as co - chair of the Powering Past Coal Alliance , I be delighted to welcome 13 new member , include the United States of America and the United Arab Emirates — all commit to phase out unabated coal power . through the Energy Transition Council , we be work with develop country via our rapid response facility to help support they through the energy transition . we also announce £ 1 . 6 billion - worth of new international climate finance project , which will support develop country to transition to net zero and adapt to the impact of climate change , while also expand green industry on a global scale . we join the UAE ' s climate finance framework , which set out new principle to reform the global financial system , and we announce plan to launch the climate investment fund capital market mechanism to raise up to £ 7 . 5 billion over the next decade for green project . however , we recognise that keep global warming to less than 1 . 5 ° be impossible without urgent action to protect , sustainably manage and restore forest . follow the historic agreement at Glasgow to halt and reverse deforestation by 2030 , the Prime Minister make forest and nature a top priority for COP28 . we agree £ 576 million to safeguard 10 million hectare of forest and help half a million people in poor , rural community , which be the most vulnerable to deforestation . I join Brazil ' s Environment Minister , Marina Silva , to welcome the Prime Minister ' s pledge of a furth £ 35 million for Brazil ' s Amazon fund . that be on top of the £ 80 million we announce early this year , make the UK one of the scheme ' s top three contributor . finally , the new forest risk commodity measure in the Environment Act 2021 will ensure that there be no space on our supermarket shelf for product link to deforestation . however , that be not all . we secure the expansion of the breakthrough agenda — our clean technology accelerator — to cover 57 member and seven economic sector , represent 60 % of global emission . up to £ 185 million be announce for a first - of - a - kind , UK - lead facility to help country across Africa , Asia and Latin America to commercialise green technology . essential commitment to support resilience include up to £ 60 million of UK funding for loss and damage — a significant outcome of Sharm el - Sheikh , now carry forward into operation — an agreement on the framework for the global goal on adaptation , and an international green public procurement pledge to boost the use of green steel , cement and concrete . the UK endorse a bold plan to triple nuclear power capacity globally , mirror our domestic strategy for nuclear to make up a quarter of electricity production by 2050 . there be also new partnership with Brazil support industrial decarbonisation and hydrogen transition , and a roadmap for the expansion of zero - emission vehicle in the develop world , back by major donor country . the great news be that british business will benefit hugely from all that , because as the world decarbonise it will use british expertise and skill as a springboard to realise the net zero transition . just as the Prime Minister announce measure to ensure that we bring consumer and household with we on the energy transition , our negotiation at COP have be about bring country with we , help rich nation to set an example , encourage the big polluter to replace fossil fuel with clean energy and work with develop nation to finance green growth . cop be , above all , about people and our long - stand , trust relationship with partner all around the world — from big emitter to small island develop state — afford we significant influence . I be proud of the role that my team play . I pay tribute to the UAE presidency and Dr Sultan al - Jaber , who act as COP President , as well as a host of other , include the High Ambition Coalition for its leadership jointly to deliver this result . I be delighted that the UK be able to support a strong delegation of international parliamentarian at this COP , include the first ever pavilion dedicate to parliamentarian . despite this landmark agreement , and however successful the UK ' s record to date , we still have such a long way to go to finance the transition and achieve our global ambition , so the UK will continue to encourage other to join the UK on a net zero pathway in this critical decade and help deliver a just , prosperous and secure future for all the people of the planet . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I thank the Minister for his statement and , indeed , for his regular commuting between Dubai and Westminster . give that he bring the last government down over fracke , I think he do not want a repeat performance , hence his return . I welcome some of the key outcome from COP28 , include in particular the commitment on renewable and , crucially , a transition away from fossil fuel . that show that the COP process , however flawed and imperfect , can provide a force mechanism for action by government . I pay tribute to the civil servant in the Minister ' s Department for their hard work . indeed , by a remarkable coincidence , the breakthrough in the negotiation occur in the 24 hour when the Minister come home and they be leave in charge . but , for all the advance make , the truth be that the world be still hurtle towards disaster , way off track for keep 1 . 5 ° alive . while we need an over - 40 % reduction in emission by 2030 , we be currently on track for emission not to fall but to rise , and a temperature rise of approach 3 ° . even after the agreement , that be the reality , so the question for the world in the run - up to COP29 in Azerbaijan and COP30 in Brazil be whether good word at COP28 be finally match by action equal to the scale of the emergency . these will be the defining two year in this decisive decade , which will shape the life of generation to come , so we need a Government in the UK who will stop congratulate themselves and use the UK ' s record as an excuse for future inaction and instead lead at home in a way that be consistent with what we be demand of other . the Minister complain about a lack of action on coal at the COP , but the Government be open a new coalmine , water down emission target , seek to drill every last drop in the North sea and start a culture war on net zero . that have send a terrible message to business , investor and other government ; one that be hear loud and clear by people at the COP . let I ask the Minister four question about the Government ' s approach . first , the COP decision say that we need to " transition away from fossil fuel " in line with the science . the science be unequivocal : for we to meet 1 . 5 ° , we must leave the vast majority of fossil fuel in the ground . he be right that many country fear that some will seek to use loophole in the COP agreement to avoid that reality . our Government be do precisely that : they say they want to drill every last drop in the North sea . the International Energy Agency , the Energy Transitions Commission , the Climate Change Committee and the former president of the COP , the right hon . member for Reading West ( Sir Alok Sharma ) , all say that that be incompatible with the science . can the Minister explain how he expect to persuade other country in the next two year that they must leave their fossil fuel in the ground when he want to extract all of ours ? secondly , on target for 2030 and beyond , the COP decision make it clear that we need not just ambition but policy that will meet those target . however , the Climate Change Committee say that we be way off track for our 2030 nationally determine contribution . can the Minister explain how he expect to persuade other country to have policy to meet their target when anyone can see that we be mile off meet ours ? thirdly , on finance , I welcome the contribution on loss and damage , but do the Minister recognise the lack of confidence that the Government will meet their promise to provide £ 11 . 6 billion of climate finance ? can he explain how he expect to persuade other government to keep their promise on finance when people suspect we will not keep ours ? fourthly and finally , when the Prime Minister spend his time at home describe net zero as a massive burden — which be what he do — how do he remotely expect to persuade other , particularly those in the develop world , that it be a great opportunity ? the Prime Minister claim that nobody at COP raise with he his dither and delay ; I suspect that be because he be not there long enough to hear the truth . his u - turn have be incredibly damaging for our country . the positive outcome at COP come despite this government , not because of they . Britain need a Government who will show climate leadership again — not climate hypocrisy — to cut bill , deliver energy independence , grow our economy and protect future generation . in the next two year more than ever , the world need climate leadership from Britain . be the truth not that people at home and abroad have see enough to know this government can not provide the leadership that the world so urgently need ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his question . I welcome what he say about the overall COP result and the need to celebrate it and build on it , and the fact that we need to ensure action match word in this critical decade . that be one of the thing we be wrestle with most , because new NDCs for 2035 be be work on now for announcement ahead of the Bel é m COP in the Amazon in 2025 , but it be in this decade that we need to bend the curve far . it be absolutely right that we do so . the right hon . Gentleman have focus on performance , and I be pleased to say that this Government have meet every single carbon budget to date . the only major target set on climate change in this country that have be fail be — let I think — the target of 10 % renewable by 2010 , set by the Government of which the right hon . Gentleman be a member . the target of a 20 % reduction in emission by 2010 , again set by the Government in which the right hon . Gentleman serve , be also fail . every single carbon budget for which this Government have be responsible since my then party leader become the first leader to call for the Climate Change Act 2008 have be meet . our record be without parallel , and I will not have it trash - talk down by the right hon . Gentleman , whose record in government be so at odd with the word he use . on oil and gas , we be a net importer . we be transition ; as I have set out , we be reduce our emission fast than any other major economy on this planet . none the less , accord to the Climate Change Committee , about 25 % of our power will come from oil and gas even in 2050 . we will be use mitigation technology to offset that , but the idea that we should replace domestically produce gas with import gas with four time the embed emission , when it will make no difference to our consumption , be environmental nonsense . that be why we be stand up for the 200 , 000 people who work in our oil and gas industry as it transition ; it be why we support the £ 50 billion in taxis that come from that industry ; and it be why we must retain the expertise of people in the sector go forward . the Labour party put at risk our net zero transition — a transition that it do not set out on properly when it be in government , and that this Government be deliver on . as I say , we have meet all our carbon budget to date . I welcome the right hon . Gentleman ' s point about loss and damage . I assure he and the House that we will meet our target of £ 11 . 6 billion in climate finance on the original timetable set out by the Prime Minister . the Prime Minister come to COP , personally committed and passionate about ensure that nature and forest — on which we have be a leader — be champion at that COP . hopefully , I will be able to give more detail about that when answer other question . as we move into the come year ahead of the Baku COP , we will focus on a new , collective , quantified financial goal . the Prime Minister , with his focus and expertise , will ensure that the UK be an absolute leader in get that right , amplify the billion we have today into the trillion we need tomorrow . I agree that we see significant progress at COP28 , particularly the agreement on transition away from fossil fuel in the energy system . however , that agreement and all previous agreement be literally just word on a page ; they will come to fruition only if all country follow through in their domestic policy . the Minister talk about raise the torch to inspire other . once again , will he please review the plan to issue these annual oil and gas licence , and consider whether they be consistent with the international commitment we have make ? secondly , will he ask our right hon . friend the Chancellor to urgently review the tax regime that give significant subsidy to new oil and gas project ? this be a matter of trust . the Minister talk about the voice of the most climate vulnerable ; they will be listen and watch , and they want to see action , not just from the UK Government but from every Government . I pay tribute to my right hon . friend for his effort at cop26 in Glasgow , include the significant measure on phase down coal . [ interruption . ] could the right hon . member for Doncaster North ( Edward Miliband ) be quiet for one second ? he do so little in government , and he have so much to say now — it be quite a contrast , be it not ? return to my right hon . friend ' s serious and respectful question on oil and gas licence , as I say , we be a net importer . we be produce our own oil and gas to ever high standard , and I be proud of the North sea transition deal , which have see the industry work with Government to cut emission from production by 50 % by 2030 . my challenge back to my right hon . friend be this : in what way be there any linkage between produce to ever high standard and a fall level of oil and gas ? new licence simply allow we to manage the decline of a basin that be expect to fall at 7 % a year and to halve in a decade , and will see we grow our independence from import , even with those new licence . that be why we be issue they . on the issue of subsidy , our tax regime be set at 75 % — among the high in the whole world . [ interruption . ] the right hon . member for Doncaster North can not win the argument when he be on his foot , so he try to do it when he be sit down . if only he have show the same energy when he be in government , we would not have have the woeful inheritance that we alone have have to turn round . we be expect £ 50 billion in taxis from the oil and gas sector , and without new licence to allow for the greening of the basin so that we reduce emission , we would not be able to ensure that each barrel of oil and production of gas come with a low level of production emission than it do today . that be our ambition . I call the SNP spokesperson . I thank the Minister for advance sight of his statement . at COP26 in Glasgow , Scotland become the first develop nation in the world to commit funding to address loss and damage . do the Minister agree that loss and damage funding should be prioritise to meet the need of the community that need it most , and distribute in a way that do not add to the debt burden of the global south ? Scotland ' s First Minister have welcome the deal , especially the new pledge of $ 700 million for loss and damage , but of course , that still fall short of the funding that will ultimately be require . what be the UK do to push for more funding down the line , and how much will it contribute now ? the former president of COP , the right hon . member for Reading West ( Sir Alok Sharma ) , make an excellent point . the new agreement reach at COP28 commit all country to transition away from fossil fuel . we welcome that agreement , to which the UK be of course a signatory . can the Minister outline how the UK Government ' s plan to increase oil production in the UK align with the plan to transition away from fossil fuel , and how can we trust they ? the hon . Gentleman be right to highlight the success of the loss and damage fund be operation - alise , but also to highlight the fact that it do not match the need for the quantum of finance . he ask I how we will be work on that . we have be delighted to contribute £ 60 million , of which £ 40 million will be go directly into the fund to help get it go . however , if we be to get it to the scale we require , it be go to need more than donor finance , which be why we have explore , and will continue to explore , option for innovative financial flow . so much of the change we have make there , even if there be an opportunity for increase debt , would not be debt financeable anyway , and that be why , as he say , we must make sure that those who be most vulnerable be rightly deal with . the hon . Gentleman mention the increase in production from oil and gas in the North sea . we be not see an increase in production ; we be actually see production expect to fall at 7 % a year . it be fall fast than be require globally . the IEA say that country should be look for a 3 % to 4 % reduction , and we will be reduce at 7 % . as he know , the UK have cut its emission more than any other major economy on earth , have the most ambitious plan of any major economy to 2030 and , I believe , be the only one to have put into law a 77 % reduction in the mid - 2030s . it be in that context , as we lead the world in reduce demand for oil and gas , that , none the less , our dependence on import will grow . so it make no sense whatsoever to see scottish worker throw out of their job in oil and gas , while we simply bring in import from abroad with high emission , and lose the very subsea and engineering capability that we need for float offshore wind , carbon capture and hydrogen . there be a complete disconnect in this crazy opposition to the maintenance of an already decline industry , which be fundamental to deliver the energy transition . even if I have little hope for the right hon . member for Doncaster North , who have always manage to have inconsistent and incoherent thought in his head all at the same time , I be hope that perhaps the scottish nationalist party can come to its sense and support scottish worker and the energy transition . I strongly welcome this statement . I congratulate the Minister and my noble Friend Lord Benyon on the negotiation , but also official such as Alison Campbell and many of the official in the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , who play a blinder in work towards and secure the agreement . I also want to pay tribute to the Minister for single - handedly make it possible for so many mp to attend COP28 . I pay tribute to he for do that , recognise his previous presidency of GLOBE International UK . I would like to say to my right hon . friend that I be particularly proud of the mangrove breakthrough moment . I be conscious that the combination of nature and climate go together start very strongly in Glasgow and have accelerate . may I seek assurance from my right hon . friend that we will commit to the £ 11 . 6 billion international climate finance funding ? I know we have already start spend some of that . will he also consider some of the approach to thing such as saltmarshe , the UK ' s equivalent of mangrove , to make sure that continue integration be part of our policy ? I thank my right hon . friend for her question . I also thank she for her attendance at the COP and her continue passion and ability to communicate the importance of nature as a value in itself , but also how , deal with in the correct way , it be complementary to development and to the maintenance of carbon sink . nature , and make sure that an understanding of it be central to our thinking , be so important . my right hon . friend thank my official , and she be right to do so . when Dr Sultan al - Jaber make the historic announcement of the UAE consensus , the central text of the various text we agree be that on the global stocktake . have thank the two Ministers who lead the work on the stocktake , he immediately thank Alison Campbell and Mr Teo from Singapore for their fundamental role . our official and my team be very much involve in draft and pull together word , and I be delighted to be support by they as we meet those from Saudi Arabia to China , India and other partner . I pay tribute to all those country that , just like we , have to move from their initial position to find a consensus . my right hon . Friend mention the presence of mps . my first COP be in 2005 in Montreal , and I remember feel then that the elect parliamentarian , who make the political weather , be not properly account for . when I look back to that historic Climate Change Act 2008 , I be proud of the fact that my then party leader , the noble Lord Cameron , be the first party leader to support it — [ interruption . ] if the hon . member for Bristol East ( Kerry McCarthy ) could just be quiet for a moment , I be talk about parliamentarian . it be a combination of friend of the Earth work with Back - Bench parliamentarian and a new green Conservative party , and an early - day motion — an instrument here that be often look at askance — that trigger the Climate Change Act , which have be significant not only for the UK , but for the world . one of the key theme at COP28 be food system transformation . give the Climate Change Committee ' s damn criticism of this Government ' s failure to make progress on cut emission in the agricultural sector , could the Minister tell we what change he expect to see in UK domestic policy as a result of the agreement reach in Dubai ? again , the UAE can be very proud of the fact that , among so many other thing , it really make sure that food be see as an important part of this COP . he be right that land - use issue , agriculture and more sustainable agriculture be fundamental to deliver net zero . under both my right hon . friend the Member for Suffolk Coastal ( Dr Coffey ) and her successor , we be work very hard to do that at home , but we be also able to announce at COP support for more sustainable agriculture and land use abroad . he be absolutely right that this be an area on which we must keep complete focus . we must make sure that we deliver in that area , as in so many other , to pull together and maintain our net zero pathway . in the very hot summer of 2022 almost 1 , 000 wildfire sweep through Essex . we be not immune from the real danger of global warming , so it be a huge honour to be one of the representative , from this Parliament ' s Energy Security and Net Zero Committee , at the COP recently . the rate of new solution , the rate of innovation and the rate of investment , as well as this new agreement , do bring hope , but promise must be deliver , and there be a gap between the science and the promise . do my right hon . friend agree that we must continue to do all we can — locally , nationally and internationally — to close that gap ? I thank my right hon . friend , and it be good to see she out in Dubai follow up on so many of the issue , not least in recognise the need of the most vulnerable and the poor community and country around the world to ensure that they be not leave behind and that we do have a just transition . my right hon . friend highlight the fact that she be a parliamentary delegate there , and we be proud to support GLOBE International UK , of which the hon . member for Brent North ( Barry Gardiner ) and I be previous chair , to provide the first ever parliamentary pavilion at COP28 . I pay tribute to Malini Mehra , who have head up GLOBE . she come in when it be in a troubled position for a promise maximum of six month , and she be still there . she be commit to ensure that parliamentarian be arm with the information they need . the answer to my right hon . friend ' s specific question be , yes , absolutely . when we consider that the country that have decarbonise most over the 31 year from 1990 to 2021 have reduce its emission by 48 % — namely , we — and that the world , on a 2019 basis , have to cut by 43 % by 2030 , with many large emitter point in the wrong direction , we can see that the challenge and the gap be not to be underestimate . cop28 , with the UAE consensus , be significant , but there be so much more to do , and it have to convert into real change if we be to bend the curve far . there be much in the Minister ' s statement that I commend and agree with , and in particular I reinforce his praise to our official who play such a significant part in the negotiation . I regret the tone of some of his response to colleague , because the cross - party consensus on this issue over the past 30 year have be fundamentally important to the progress that we have be able to make . the science be clear ; the world ' s government be not . those who be ready to deliver the transformation require to win the war against climate change be now consider whether the United Nations framework convention on climate change process be capable of deliver it in time . how long do the Minister think it will be before we see coalition of the willing , such as the Beyond Oil & Gas Alliance , impose sanction on those recidivist country who be still drive our world towards disaster ? on the coalition of the willing , the world be change , and the EU have already legislate for a carbon border adjustment mechanism for select part of industry , which will put up a carbon tax or a carbon price at the border . there be a certain intellectual inevitability about that if cost of production in one country be not reflect in other , and ensure that that be do in a just manner be important . I would hate to look back at COP28 and find that it be one of the last time that country around the world be able , on the basis of mutual trust , to talk to each other and come to a common agreement . the hon . Gentleman , who be highly experienced in this area , know just how tender — I be sure there be a well word . the hon . Gentleman know just how fragile the process could be if we do not all step carefully and ensure that we carry people with we . the commitment that 24 country have make to triple nuclear energy capability by 2050 show that the world have wake up to the most powerful , least land - taking , reliably prove net - zero energy provision that we have in the world . that be testament to my right hon . friend , his Department and this UK Government , who commit first to 24 GW . will he join I in recognise that without the world - class skill — I draw member ' attention to my entry in the register , because I be happily married to a nuclear welder with 45 year ' experience — and the blue - collar worker and nuclear operator work every hour , every day on site across the UK , we would not , and the world would not be in a position to back atomic energy ? will he join I in commend Britain ' s energy coast , which recognise that for we to tool up , retrain , train and recruit , we must regenerate nuclear community , which be often coastal community ? that be exactly what Britain ' s energy coast , and the energy coast business cluster , be do so well in west Cumbria . I pay tribute to my hon . friend and her energetic , continual and well - informed — not least by marriage — understanding of the nuclear industry and its importance . I remember be at Sharm El Sheikh and it seem that the only people talk about nuclear be 95 youngster from some tiny pavilion at the back , who be go around promote its importance . the science say that we can not get to net zero without nuclear , in the appropriate place and with all the caveat . I remember say to the incoming UAE presidency that , give their success with their Barakah reactor , and give the need to deliver nuclear and the UK ' s determination for a renaissance , surely all country involve need to come together and send a signal to the world , so that we be not leave teenager alone to champion the importance of nuclear . we as a country should step up loud and proud , and face down those who oppose nuclear from an ideological perspective , because it be so important not only to deliver net zero , but to deliver so many job in constituency such as that of my hon . friend around this country . license aside , what sensible proposal do the Minister have to offer hope to the 1 , 500 people live in my constituency , and the other 200 , 000 people he reference early , whose job depend on oil and gas now , and who could power our clean energy future ? offshore Energies UK estimate that if we get the transition right , the workforce could swell by 50 % . where be his plan for those worker ? I thank the hon . Lady . in her code way — we all know there be an election come up — I suppose that be as far as she could go in oppose the opposition of those on Labour ' s Front Bench to sustain those job as we go through the transition . those job and that skillset will be require for the transition . if we pull they and say that there will be no new licence or investment in the North sea , those job will disappear or simply go abroad , and that make no sense . along with Michael Lewis of Uniper , I co - chair the Green Jobs Delivery Group , and we will be come forward with a green job plan in the first half of next year . it be a transition , and as the hon . Lady will know , if she can persuade those on her Front Bench to get off their ideological opposition to something that be fundamental to the delivery of the transition , as well as maintain our energy security today , I be fully behind she . I , too , be at COP28 , and I congratulate the UAE on what we have all be achieve there . the Minister be right to underline what Britain have do in move from 7 % to half of our energy requirement come from renewable . he be also right to say that we be still behind the curve . we punch through a 1 . 5 ° C increase from pre - industrial level in July this year , and climate change will soon overtake human conflict as a cause of loss of life . we be familiar with the long - term target of 2030 and 2050 that the Minister have mention , but they be a long way off . would it be wise to start introduce annual target — a yearly roadmap — so that we can see incrementally how we will meet those long - term objective ? interestingly , my right hon . friend take we back to the day before the Climate Change Act 2008 when , if I remember correctly , friend of the Earth be argue for annual target , and that be the conservative party position . once the Labour Government agree to take the legislation forward , they realise , as do the civil servant involve , that there need to be a period over which these thing can be balance out . I think their thinking be right and that the five - year carbon budget be right . we do provide an annual report on our performance to date , but overall we have to allow for thing such as the pandemic and all sort of crisis that come along . I think the architecture be right — I pay tribute to the right hon . member for Doncaster North and his government at the time — and it have withstand the test of time . as we have hear , the global stocktake decision text that be agree in Dubai commit the party to transition away from fossil fuel in energy system . can I press the Minister to clarify what the Government believe the implication of that aspect of the agreement be for the UK ? will it mean that the UK Government now have to accelerate action to reduce our dependence on fossil fuel in what remain of this decade ? if so , what new measure will be need ? if not , be the Government really say that the COP28 agreement change nothing for the UK when it come to fossil fuel usage ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question , which be a good one . our nationally determine contribution and emission promise for 2030 be for a 68 % cut from the 1990 basis — far more than any of our peer . we can be proud of that . it be set precisely because it be , on the advice of the Climate Change Committee , align with a pathway to net zero 2050 . none the less , the hon . Gentleman be right to say that we keep our policy under review , and as that committee point out this year , there be still gap that need to be make up to ensure we deliver on that . we have always manage to do so before , and I be confident we will do so again . he be right to say that we should continually look at our policy to ensure that they keep we there , whether or not that deal specifically with fossil fuel . we be try to move to zero - emission vehicle . today we have make an announcement on hydrogen , with 11 project be fund to produce green hydrogen around the country . we be , step by step , across the piece , put in place the require policy . that mean do everything within the window to keep ourselves in our world - lead position , which be cut emission more than any other major economy . may I build on the wise word of my hon . friend the Member for Copeland ( Trudy Harrison ) , and congratulate the UK Government on sign the statement on civil nuclear fuel co - operation with the United States , Canada , France and Japan ? that statement to secure supply chain , particularly of uranium , be so important , and the Government - lead $ 4 . 2 billion of external investment will go a long way to secure our energy side when we need an energy mix . do the Minister agree that that be exactly what the UK need , not only for its energy security , but to meet its net zero target ? my hon . friend , as always , be well informed and insightful . we be pleased , along with 21 other country , to join NetZero Nuclear , because nuclear have such an important part to play . as I say in a previous answer , we need literally everything , and we be push the envelope across the piece . by do so , we be develop technological solution that will not only serve our need , but can be export around the world for many year to come . the Minister be right that COP be about people and relationship . I be also at COP , and hear first hand what country representative be say about the recent action and message come from this Government , in stark contrast to some of what he be say today . the Prime Minister have spend recent month wrongly tell the country that net zero be a huge burden , rather than the economic opportunity of the 21st century . how can he as a Minister go to develop country say that they must seize these opportunity provide by net zero , give his Prime Minister ' s message at home ? as delightful and pleasant as the hon . Lady be outside the Chamber , she be always challenge within it . the Prime Minister remain committed . he have insist on our commitment to net zero and our 2030 nationally determined contribution , while ensure that we carry people with we . he be delighted to announce £ 1 . 6 billion of UK funding for new climate project while at COP , include £ 887 . 8 million of new and additional financing , with other announcement focus on drive forward climate action on forest , finance and net zero transition . this government be walk the walk while ensure and make no apology for the fact that we seek to maintain the national consensus and carry people up and down the country with we as we continue to lead . [ interruption . ] the right hon . member for Doncaster North insist on giggle , but we be lead in the way his Government singly fail to do before 2010 . may I start by thank the Minister ? politic aside , there be much we can all agree on in the deal at COP . I would like to see we go far in some area , but I recognise that we have to build a coalition , and I thank he for the work he have do . however , it be about not just what we do , but what we say and how we say it . follow on from my hon . friend the Member for Cardiff North ( Anna McMorrin ) , the way that the Prime Minister recalibrate the Government ' s policy in this area have the opposite effect to the one we all would like to have see . we get the follow headline : " Sunak ' s u - turn make net zero hard " in the Guardian ; " could Rishi Sunak ' s green review threaten UK net zero ? " on the BBC ; " Sunak ' s net zero backslide ' deeply damaging ' for Britain " in the Daily Telegraph ; and " climate tech backer slam Rishi Sunak net zero retreat " in the Evening Standard . do the Minister not get that these message be hear across the globe ? will he go back to no . 10 and ask the Prime Minister to be just a bit more careful in his language and how he say thing so that we can get net zero over the line ? in maintain the public commitment to net zero , it be important to say to people in my rural east Yorkshire constituency , for example , who be off the gas grid and fearful concern heat pump , that they would not see their boiler rip out when they do not think there be an affordable and deliverable alternative . as the Prime Minister announce , we combine that with a 50 % increase in the heat pump subsidy level to £ 7 , 500 , and we see a tripling of interest in the following week . word do matter , but there be many constituency to talk to . I look to the hon . gentleman to help provide the proper balanced and nuanced view . this country have cut its emission more than any other major economy on earth and we have more ambitious plan go forward . the Prime Minister be behind net zero . we must have a balanced discussion to show that we be not inflexible . we be prepared to work with people and ensure we do it in the right way . the Minister say that we have to ensure we be not inflexible . the reality be that a number of the policy and issue we be discuss will have an impact on the next generation and the one after that . whenever I go into school in my constituency , the young people raise climate change with I . the reality be that climate change be harm child ' s right and access to food , water , healthcare and education . do the Minister agree with unicef on the need to build towards a climate change action plan for child and young people by call for an expert dialogue on child and climate change to be hold mid - year at the session of the subsidiary body in 2024 ? the hon . Lady be right to highlight child , who will inherit the planet we leave behind . in the meantime , they be peculiarly vulnerable to the negative impact we be already see this year , let alone those we will see if we get to 1 . 5 ° C or beyond . she be right to highlight that . I can not comment on the specific question she raise , but I will make sure that it be hear on the Treasury Bench and let she know as and when a decision be make by the Government . she be right to say that , just as we must ensure that the voice of the small Pacific island state and other be hear , because they be so much on the frontline , the voice of youth must be hear . I be pleased to meet youth representative at COP28 . we must ensure that we look to the people who will inherit the policy that we of a slightly great age make in this Chamber . I dare say that it might seem slightly implausible to people here in the Chamber when I say that I work in oil fabrication , but I do , and the yard where I work build some of the mighty structure in the North sea today . what the Minister say about transition and redeploying skill be music to my ear and those of my electorate . I long to see the day when offshore wind structure be fabricate in the Nigg yard . however , there be a problem , which be that since the auction , some cost have rise by almost 40 % . I suspect that the incentive will not be sufficient to get the industry to where we want it to be to make these thing happen . do the Minister recognise that , and do he have any thought as to how it might be address ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for his question , which , as ever , be well informed and extremely reasonable . he be absolutely right . I visit the port of Nigg . I be interested to see nascent float offshore wind work , fix - bed offshore wind work and oil and gas work , and I wander into a hall where they be make a large and sophisticated piece for Hinkley Point C , extraordinarily . that be all at Nigg . the hon . Gentleman get to the point about financing and whether the auction , which have be brilliant at lower price , have in fact help drive too much of the industry out of this country . behind the day job of transform our generation , my passion will be to see how , without follow some other with WTO - breach local clause , we can nudge and support more industry here . that be why we be bring in sustainable industry reward — non - price factor , in the jargon . we expect those to come in from allocation round 7 onwards as we work to make sure that we look after consumer first , while not miss any opportunity to utilise , maintain and grow job here . on offshore wind alone , our expectation — this be what the industry say — be that we will go from around 30 , 000 job in the industry today to more than 100 , 000 in the next six year . one of our big challenge be find those people , train they and make sure we be ready to deliver they , as much as it be have more do here . I thank the Minister very much for the positive in his statement and the significant target that the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland be set to achieve our goal . some of the figure he have refer to be encouraging . I wholeheartedly support help for poor country , as he will be aware . will he outline the parameter of the loss and hardship fund that have be mention as they pertain to ensure that the fulfilment of human right obligation be in the requirement for any award ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his as ever gracious question . one of our disappointment — there be thing we be disappoint with in the UAE consensus — be the watering down of element we would have like to see on human right . he be right to highlight that . we have always want loss and damage to focus on the most vulnerable . the least financeable of all be people in an already parlous economic position , often at low scale , who be under threat from climate change . we hope that the funding that have be create for loss and damage can complement adaptation funding as well as mitigation work , and have climate justice at its heart . we have to look after the weak and poor on the planet . however unsympathetic the science , we have to ensure that policy recognise the reality for people all over the world . citizen ' right with permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will make a statement on the 2021 and 2022 annual report by the Independent Monitoring Authority for the Citizens ' Rights Agreements and by the European Commission , on the implementation and application of citizen ' right . the overall picture on citizen ' right be very positive . both the UK Government and the EU have work to uphold our obligation under the withdrawal agreement . we maintain a constructive dialogue and remain committed to uphold the right of withdrawal agreement beneficiary and their eligible family member . we acknowledge that a very small number of beneficiary have encounter issue : from the roughly 5 . 7 million EU - citizen withdrawal agreement beneficiary — EU citizen live in the UK — the IMA receive 237 complaint in 2021 , and 209 in 2022 . from the estimate 1 . 4 million UK - national withdrawal agreement beneficiary live in the EU , the Commission receive 40 complaint in 2021 , and 30 in 2022 . the UK Government continue to press the EU for concrete action to rectify those issue affect UK national . in contrast to the extensive datum that the UK publish on the EU settlement scheme , we do not have consistent and detailed statistic on all member state ' residence scheme . as a result , we continue to encourage our friend across member state to publish similarly detailed datum . the IMA be a body establish by the EU withdrawal agreement and a parallel agreement with non - eu european economic area state . it exist to monitor and promote the implementation and application of the citizen ' right part of those agreement in the UK , and it be require to produce annual report on implementation and application for the specialised committee on citizen ' right . it have publish two report so far : the first in June 2022 and the second in June 2023 . the European Commission also have an obligation to publish an annual report on implementation and application , and it publish its second report early this month . the IMA report set out the scope of the IMA ' s power , include the power to receive complaint , conduct inquiry and take legal action . they contain information on the measure take by the UK to implement its citizen ' right obligation . they also set out the IMA ' s activity , include legislation , monitoring and litigation , early case resolution , and decision to take no further action where there be insufficient evidence of a breach . in 2021 , where the IMA be notify of issue , they relate primarily to access to healthcare and benefit , live in the UK and Gibraltar , entry to the UK , and housing . there be few issue in 2022 , and they relate primarily to the right to reside . in both year , the UK Government , the devolve Administrations and the Government of Gibraltar work with the IMA to provide figure and information . the UK have take a generous and pragmatic approach to EEA citizen in the UK through the EU settlement scheme . as of 30 September 2023 , there be nearly 7 . 6 million application to the scheme , with an estimate 5 . 7 million people have obtain status . the Home Office continue to receive and process more than 1 , 000 application every day , on average . there remain a wide range of support available for applicant , include the grant - fund network of organisation across the UK that have help more than half a million vulnerable people apply to the scheme . further support be available through the resolution centre , which provide telephone and email assistance to applicant , and we be Digital , which provide support for applicant complete the online application process . the Government be commit to work with the IMA to resolve issue as they arise , and we will continue to update our guidance where necessary . the European Commission ' s report set out the Commission ' s duty and responsibility in the application of part 2 of the withdrawal agreement , include measure to comply with the agreement at both EU and member - state level ; the Commission ' s approach to enforcement of the withdrawal agreement , include its exchange with member state and complaint ; and how the Commission respond to issue raise by UK national . of the issue raise with the Commission in 2021 , most related to residence right or residence document , and other concern travel and border crossing , equal treatment , access to employment , and education and training . the 2022 report show that most issue raise by UK national that year also relate to residence right , particularly refusal of application to a member state ' s residence scheme . a small number of complaint relate to travel and border crossing . UK national can seek redress at national level and report breach of their right to the European Commission . we be pleased that the Commission ' s annual report provide some statistic on UK national ' residence application in most member state , but we continue to call for comprehensive datum on residence from every member state . it be not acceptable that datum be miss from certain state , particularly when contrast with our own extensive datum on the EU settlement scheme , which we publish quarterly . we also urge the Commission to provide further detail on how complaint by UK national be handle , and how the complaint procedure be advertise to UK national in the EU . we continue to hold the Commission and member state to account for the correct implementation and application of part 2 of the withdrawal agreement . overall , we be satisfied that most UK national in the EU can access their right under the withdrawal agreement , but there be some issue affect a small number of individual . we currently have two main concern . the first relate to UK national ' ability to evidence their permanent residency right in certain member state where challenge exist in secure residency card . the second be to ensure that the right of join family member be protect . that mean make sure that member state correctly apply the family reunification provision of the withdrawal agreement — for example , that family member can access visa free of charge , and that sufficient guidance exist for join family member to enable practical access to right . we be work to ensure that UK - national withdrawal agreement beneficiary have the same right as EU national when buy property . we also continue to work with the EU Commission and member state to ensure that the withdrawal agreement right of international worker be protect . in conclusion , I want to underline the importance that the UK Government place on uphold citizen ' right . we be committed to ensure that both the UK and the EU fulfil their obligation under the withdrawal agreement , and we continue to work very closely with the Commission , the IMA and civil society group to achieve that . I commend the statement to the House . I call the shadow Minister . I thank the Minister for advance sight of his statement . we welcome engagement between the Government and the European Union on these issue . maintain an open , constructive and consistent dialogue be critical to the mutual welfare and right of all those affect by the withdrawal agreement . we also welcome the work of the Independent Monitoring Authority , the specialised committee and body such as the EU - UK Parliamentary Partnership Assembly . we will always stand up for the right of the British in Europe , but we recognise that these issue must be address in a spirit of mutual and constructive co - operation . as the Minister outline , the joint statement make in the light of the specialised committee on citizen ' right appear to show important progress . few issue relate to healthcare , benefit and housing be relay to the IMA in 2022 than in 2021 , but it be clear that some challenge persist . the Minister have outline a number of those , and we need to work pragmatically and constructively to address they . one of the issue that he mention be whether datum be fit for purpose . there be not consistency in the datum provide by individual country — it be incomplete and variable . I hope the Minister can say a little more about what he be do with his European Union counterpart about the datum miss from certain member state , in order to achieve baseline parity . it have also be relay to labour that there be continue problem with the process of issue residence card — an example often cite be Portugal . I understand that that process be now under way , but problem be be report with family reunification , as people struggle to obtain appointment and qr code . we have also hear about problem with payment system and delay in printing and issuing card , which can have an impact on other right under the withdrawal agreement . what discussion have the Minister have about that ? concern have also be raise about the number of refusal in a number of member state and the vary approach to late application across many country . british in Europe , an important advocacy group on behalf of citizen , have state that late application and the prevalence of refusal be cause consternation and anxiety for many . there be also concern about the lack of communication and information on these issue . concern have be raise in the past in relation to Sweden , Denmark , Finland and Belgium , although again the situation have improve , for example with the Danish Government ' s decision to extend the deadline for british citizen to apply for status to the end of 2023 . can the Minister update we on the concern raise in that regard ? particular concern be raise about the situation in Sweden , where the refusal rate and the order to leave be statistically high than in equivalent country . I have hear some very concern case , include one relate to an elderly lady with dementia . again , can the Minister say what discussion he have have specifically with the Swedish Government on those issue and what he be do to improve communication with british citizen ? there be concern about absence and the impact on ordinary and permanent resident . we need a clear statement from the European Commission on the position in the light of recent legal case . there be concern about fee . for example , I understand that citizen be be charge € 200 to upgrade their status in country such as Latvia . there be also concern about case — thankfully , a very small number of case — where family have unfortunately be split up due to inconsistency . do the Minister have an assessment of how many case there be in that regard ? many citizen affect be raise question about equal treatment and non - discrimination under article 12 and 23 of the withdrawal agreement . can the Minister say a little about how we be ensure equality of treatment in all area — tax , property , school and university access , health access and so on ? finally , there be a more general issue about where UK citizen turn when they need advice on enforce their withdrawal agreement right — there be a lack of specialise lawyer in this area — and about fund for advice and advocacy service , although I recognise the importance of the work be do by scheme such as your Europe Advice . we also need clarity on how we be address the concern of EU citizen here , many of whom have live here for decade , have contribute and pay taxis , have marriage and child , and so on . the Minister outline the number of people who have apply to the EU settlement scheme . where be we on the progress on determine remain case and make determination ? we be aware that the scheme have face serious issue , with hundred of thousand of late application , long delay on decision , delay for those with pre - settle status , and a lack of clarity on their move to settle status . EU citizen over here also deserve clarity and certainty over their status and that of their love one . it be vital that the Home Office address those concern , so I wonder if the Minister could update we on what conversation he have have with his colleague in the Home Office . one issue that be often raise with we be school trip . how can we address some of the problem that have emerge and may emerge around that important contact between our country ? finally , reconnecte Britain start with Europe . they be our neighbour , partner and ally , and a Labour Government would prioritise build a new ambitious partnership with the EU and european member state . we will not rejoin the EU , the single market or the custom union , or return to freedom of movement , but it be in our mutual benefit to ensure tangible improvement in the experience of citizen on both side under the withdrawal agreement , recognise the depth of our people - to - people connection . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for his question and for his warm endorsement of a statement that , I think , reflect the overwhelming success of the scheme on both side . he make a welcome reference to the UK - EU Parliamentary Partnership Assembly , which I be pleased to address last week in Parliament . that show the practical utility of the exchange between parliamentarian , both from the EU and the UK , and how they can serve as an important platform for an exchange of view . the warm tone of that meeting reflect the health and positivity of the relationship . there be , of course , some challenge . the hon . Gentleman ask a good question about datum . we do need consistency across member state and we continue to work both with the Commission and bilaterally to encourage great granularity in the datum come from member state . bilateral work continue , for example on the issuing of residence right . it be a particular issue in Portugal , but we have be very grateful to the portuguese Government for their positive approach . we have raise it at the high level and we continue to do so . the Foreign Secretary discuss these issue with Vice - President Š ef č ovi č very recently . when I travel as a Minister , I be constantly engage with these sort of citizen ' right as a routine part of my engagement across european capital . the hon . Gentleman ask a very good question about Sweden and Denmark . we continue to work bilaterally to resolve those specific issue . he ask a specific question about fee in Latvia . I will write to he on that and on his question about the number of family member involve in case that be yet to have a satisfactory outcome . the hon . Gentleman ask a very good question on where people should turn when they need help . in the first instance they should access help online , whether through the Independent Monitoring Authority in the UK or by approach the EU Commission if an individual be resident in the EU . we have a very wide and comprehensive consular network in british mission right across Europe , with expertise that be deployable to help those concerned . I be very pleased to meet the group he mention , british in Europe . I have expansive discussion with that group , which do a terrific job of make british resident in Europe aware of the help available to they . the hon . Gentleman ask a good question about the duration of a determination . clearly , the Home Office be do a terrific job in drive forward a high volume of application . it be receive and process 1 , 000 case per day . my understanding be that the average processing time be six month , but we should be very clear that no individual will ever miss out due to any kind of timeline . no one ' s fundamental right will be undermine . settle status be guarantee whether or not a certain timeline have be miss , and that be the basis of the recent extension . in conclusion , the hon . Gentleman be right to point out that we be neighbour , partner and friend to the European Commission and to the member state . that warm tone and collaborative working dictate everything we do on citizen ' right and beyond . have spend two and a half year negotiate the citizen ' right agreement and update the House on it , I be very pleased with the full statement my hon . friend have just deliver and the conclusion that the overall picture be a very positive one , which be reflect in the number and in the dwindle number of issue be raise on both side . can he reassure I , however , that where issue be raise they go right to the top of Government — the Foreign Secretary ' s bilateral conversation with member state — and that we be raise the issue with the consistency of datum , because it be important to get the right arrangement for our citizen live in the EU ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for his question . his moment have come ! the House should be grateful for his tremendous work in the day of the Department for exit the European Union , in which he serve very ably for an extremely long time . the fact that citizen ' right be in good shape be in no small part down to his setting up of the scheme . he be right to ask whether issue go right to the top . we make representation at the high level — the Foreign Secretary discuss citizen ' right with Vice - President Š ef č ovi č very recently — so it have the full attention of ministerial and official effort . I thank the Minister for prior sight of his statement . I , too , be pleased that both side appear to be work constructively to uphold the obligation lay out in the withdrawal agreement . as we have hear , however , the situation remain far from ideal for many , include EU citizen live in the UK . I understand that during the meeting hold early this month , the EU raise again the lack of clarity for EU citizen who hold new UK residence status , question whether their right be guarantee by the withdrawal agreement , or solely by domestic law . perhaps the Minister could confirm whether it be the former or the latter . the Minister speak of his concern about UK national in the EU be unable to evidence their permanent residence right in certain member state . I agree that that must be a huge concern for those involve , but it be also the case that 6 million EU citizen in the UK have digital - only immigration status . give the long experience of the Home Office have a less than perfect track record of file maintenance , will the Government do something now about provide EU citizen with a physical back - up to confirm their immigration status ? there be also concern around those to who have be grant pre - settle status but who do not yet have , or who can not evidence , five year of continuous residence . with 3 , 500 universal credit application refuse , the right to reside requirement appear to be almost a hidden form of no recourse to public fund . would it not be far well to strengthen the bond between the UK and the European Union by recognise EU citizen ' right with access to social security ? finally , can the Minister tell we what EU member state think about the new salary threshold , which mean that british citizen will be unable to live legally in the UK with spouse from EU member state ? do they see that as maintain the constructive dialogue and remain committed to uphold the right of beneficiary and their eligible family member , as the Minister suggest ? the hon . Gentleman ask about the route via which right be apply . the withdrawal agreement guarantee the right of those join family member with settle status , and no one ' s right will be undermine by any other factor . he then ask about digital status . we live in a digital age , and this be overwhelmingly the convenient and efficient mean of provide document , but should individual struggle with the digital mean , a dedicated resolution centre be available , so there be recourse to assistance for the more analogue - minded individual who might need it . of course access will continue . as we have see — and I note the number in the statement — the volume of application reflect the fact that a large number of EU citizen be still come to the UK to join family member under the arrangement set up by the withdrawal agreement . that , I think , be a positive reflection of the success of the scheme , and also of the fact that those people be attract to live and work in the UK . the hon . Gentleman invite I to go beyond the scope of the statement by comment on the salary threshold . I will not accept that invitation , but I will say that I think there be a warm realisation between the UK and member state and the Commission that the withdrawal agreement be work well . citizen ' right be overwhelmingly in good shape , and there be that warm positivity between the UK , the Commission and member state to ensure that we get this right . I thank the Minister for his statement . can he assure I that , as he continue to monitor change in the law with EU member state , he stand ready to inform british national of any change that be to be make ? will he say how that would be do ? we do stand ready . that information will primarily be send out via our extensive consular network for UK national live in the EU — my hon . friend will know that there be more than 400 , 000 in Spain , for example . we will use our consular network and our deep connection with local community to ensure that those resident be keep up to date . perhaps , Madam Deputy Speaker , in the spirit of the festive season , I might be allow a slightly rambling question , have be inspire by the Minister ' s mention of border crossing and travel . in my student day , I go backpack and interraile around Europe . I discover that a kilt would get you a free drink in some very surprising place . indeed , I overdo it once in Munich , but we will not go into that . [ laughter . ] I assume that before he join the Foot Guards , the Minister will have do something similar — or perhaps that do not become a guardsman ; I do not know . I want to explore the Minister ' s think . it strike I that the ability of youngster to travel around Europe and meet other Europeans , learn their language and learn about their culture , have be a tremendous exercise in peacemake and understanding for the whole of Europe . do the Minister see that as something important that we should try to continue and to accomplish in the future ? of course the hon . Gentleman be right . we acknowledge that the ability of young people to travel and experience foreign culture and education in different language be hugely important , and we be do all we can to ensure that the same volume of schoolchildren from the european continent be able to access that by spend time in the UK . we be open to discussion about a more sustained mechanism for ensure that young people from Europe can always study in the UK , because that be very important . the hon . Gentleman reflect pertinently on his personal experience of travel in Europe . the House be grateful for that . it be , of course , a matter of grave regret to I that the Foot Guards do not wear kilt . well , there be food for thought . I thank the Minister for his statement . human Trafficking Home Affairs Committee Select Committee statement we come to the Select Committee statement on behalf of the Home Affairs Committee . Dame Diana Johnson will speak for up to 10 minute , during which no intervention may be take . at the conclusion of her statement , I will call member to ask question on the subject of the statement . these should be brief question , not full speech . I should also emphasise that question should be direct to the Select Committee Chair , not to the relevant Minister , and that Front Benchers may take part in questioning . let I start by thank the Backbench Business Committee for grant this time for a debate on the report from the Home Affairs Select Committee on human trafficking , the first report of the 2023 - 24 Session . let I also thank and pay tribute to the courage and bravery of the survivor who share their view and experience with we as part of the inquiry , and express my gratitude to the Committee Clerks , staff and adviser who provide such excellent support . this report put pay to the idea that the UK be still a world leader in combat human trafficking . it be not . a preoccupation with small boat crossing and the Rwanda scheme have see the Government divert their focus and resource away from combat human trafficking . the post of Independent Anti - Slavery Commissioner be vacant for 18 month . the Home Office have not publish its annual report on human trafficking for two year , and it have take the Department two year to launch the new stakeholder group to engage with anti - traffic non - governmental organisation . the consequence of such de - prioritisation and delay be disastrous for this country ' s response to human trafficking , undermine our ability to prevent exploitation , prosecute perpetrator and protect victim . let I begin with prevention . let we be clear : human trafficking will continue to be attractive and extremely profitable to criminal unless more be do to tackle the demand for the criminality that it service . for example , there be currently too little deterrence for man who pay for sex , and that create a market for traffic for sexual exploitation . indeed , the Government ' s modern slavery strategy include just two reference to the need to " reduce demand " , and neither relate to sexual exploitation . law enforcement action against individual who fuel the demand for sexual exploitation and who directly abuse victim have also be woeful . section 53a of the Sexual Offences Act 2003 , which be head " pay for sexual service of a prostitute subject to force etc . " , describe a strict liability offence . however , between 2013 and 2020 , just three individual be convict under section 53a , and the maximum penalty apply be a fine of no more than £ 100 . we think that the law should be strengthen and penalty increase to ensure comparability with other sexual and traffic offence , and to increase the deterrent value . there should also be much great use of section 53a by police force and the Crown Prosecution Service . the Committee find that website advertise prostitution enable and profit from such exploitation without even minimal safeguard on those platform . we be deeply concerned by the decision of the National Crime Agency and the Home Office to work with these website , give that there be no evidence that that have lead to a reduction in human trafficking on they . website be directly fuel sex trafficking across the UK , and cause unimaginable harm to victim . we therefore call on the Government to make it an offence for any individual or company to enable or profit from the prostitution of another person , include the facilitation that take place via website . let I now turn to the subject of prosecution . the national referral system be the UK ' s national framework for identify and support victim of modern slavery , include human trafficking . the high number of referral to the NRM , total 16 , 938 in 2022 , highlight the scope of exploitation in the UK , but the CPS receive only 286 referral of human trafficking case in 2022 , which result in just 405 people be prosecute . we be very concerned at the disparity in those figure , particularly as we hear during our inquiry that the number of referral to the NRM be almost certainly not a true reflection of the number of victim . in accordance with the College of Policing ' s authorise professional practice for investigation , all suspect modern slavery offence be to be treat as serious crime . additionally , human trafficking and modern slavery have be identify by the National Crime Agency as a national priority threat , yet Dame Sara Thornton , the previous Independent Anti - Slavery Commissioner , tell we that the low prosecution rate be due to the level of priority and resource , include expert team , that police force have apply . to increase the number of prosecution , there must be additional training for law enforcement . Police and crime commissioner should consider set modern slavery and human trafficking as a priority in their police and crime plan , and there must be more use of evidence - lead investigation . we would also tell law enforcement to follow the money , as there be clear link with money laundering and other criminal activity . crucially , we say that victim support must be at the centre of the investigation and prosecution process . the " victim navigator " programme be work to support this , with an independent support worker work with the police to act as a trust bridge between investigator and victim . this scheme should be expand and use in all case . finally , to hold perpetrator of human trafficking accountable , the Modern Slavery Act 2015 must be applicable to all those who perpetrate this crime . that be why we recommend that the Act ' s definition of human trafficking should be amend to remove the requirement for the exploitation to have involve travel , and to clarify that the consent of the victim , in relation to either the travel or the exploitation itself , be irrelevant . as long as the crime of human trafficking be commit , we will need to support and protect victim , but we be not get it right here either . right now , the NRM decision - make process be extremely slow . the average waiting time for a conclusive ground decision in 2022 , across both competent authority , be 543 day . this contribute to the stress , anxiety and depression of victim , who face an uncertain future . furthermore , these delay have cause many victim to drop out of the process before it conclude , leave they expose to a risk of re - trafficking . we hear how long waiting time can be particularly detrimental to british national victim , who may opt out , rather than wait in the NRM , and try to receive help and support elsewhere . the Home Office also fail to produce sufficient evidence to our inquiry to support its claim of widespread abuse of the national referral mechanism and of people try to game the system in order to claim asylum . we recommend deal with the backlog and reduce the number of day that NRM decision take , and we ask the Government again to provide comprehensive datum to support their claim of abuse of the NRM , if that datum exist . for some victim , the NRM be not the right support mechanism . in 2022 , 41 % of all referral to the NRM be child . the Council of Europe ' s expert group on human trafficking note that , in 2019 , the NRM comprise : UK national , 52 % ; vietnamese national , 9 % ; eritrean national , 6 % ; albanian national , 6 % ; and sudanese national , 5 % . several organisation tell we that the number of child experience exploitation be likely to be much high than the officially report case , yet the NRM be not appropriate for child . there be an urgent need for a join - up approach to victim support that adequately address their need . we be also deeply concerned by the lack of action on miss victim of child trafficking . measure such as devolving decision make to local authority and provide independent child traffic guardian to support victim be example of scheme that can have a very positive effect but be not widely available . we be concerned that , more than two year into the pilot , we be still await any evaluation . we also recommend introduce a statutory definition of child criminal exploitation . finally , the report make it clear that it be certainly not appropriate to accommodate child in hotel , particularly unaccompanie asylum - seek child . I hope the report mark a turning point in the Government ' s response to human trafficking . they can and must do much well . to that end , I welcome the decision by the House of Lords to appoint a special inquiry Committee on post - legislative scrutiny of the Modern Slavery Act , which will begin its work next year . I hope the recommendation and evidence base that we bring together in our report prove valuable to the Committee in its deliberation . the Home Affairs Committee ' s report offer the Government a clear road map for get the UK ' s response to human trafficking back on track . I be pleased that the Minister for Illegal Migration be on the Treasury Bench this afternoon , and I urge the Government to take heed of the recommendation . as a member of the Home Affairs Committee , I concur with everything the Chair have just say . she raise the very unsatisfactory absence of an Independent Anti - Slavery Commissioner for more than 18 month . will she elaborate on our recommendation that the Committee should have a pre - appointment hearing role , as we have for certain other position ? that might enable we to chase the Government rather more effectively on fill that role . secondly , the Chair say that the NRM be not appropriate for child and that the Government have be slow to roll out independent child traffic guardian , let alone a definition of child criminal exploitation . do she agree that this go well beyond just traffic ? this be about child safeguarding , child welfare and child in the criminal justice system , and it really need a join - up approach involve several different department . otherwise , these kid will end up be perpetrator rather than the victim that , in many case , they be . I pay tribute to the hon . Gentleman , who be an excellent deputy Chair of the Home Affairs Committee . his contribution be always very valuable . on child , I absolutely agree that we need a join - up approach across Government . on the hon . Gentleman ' s first point , the Committee be disappoint that it have take so long for an Independent Anti - Slavery Commissioner to be appoint , but we recognise that we could play a useful role in have a pre - appointment hearing for that important role . we say in our recommendation that we would like the Government to consider that , and we look forward to see the new Independent Anti - Slavery Commissioner at the end of January 2024 , although that will be after her appointment . I hope the Government will take heed of our call for pre - appointment hearing in future . I pay tribute to my right hon . friend and her Committee on this excellent report . will she comment on the research that find that 75 % of victim of traffic for sexual exploitation be advertise online ? one of these adult service website give evidence to the Committee that it allow " individual to advertise multiple people for prostitution concurrently , that age verification of individual advertise on their site be not require , and that the same contact phone number can be use on multiple advert . " when I read that , I be strike that we could take simple measure to eradicate the loophole that these website exploit . what do my right hon . friend think the Government should do ? do she think the Government could act quickly to deal with such issue ? I be grateful for my hon . friend ' s question . all the Committee ' s member be shock when we take evidence about these adult service website — pimp website — which be platform use by serious organise criminal to traffic woman , in the main , and advertise they completely legitimately and legally use , as my hon . Friend say , the same telephone number and often very similar advertisement . hon . and right hon . member should look at those advert , as I do in my local area in Hull . I be shocked to see woman advertise — " new in town " , " only here for a week " — use very similar telephone number and picture ; obviously , they be be move around the country . these be serious organise criminal who be do this . I hope the Government will take into account what we say in our report , because when we question the Home Secretary at that time , she be not aware of the issue . in fact , we be concerned that the National Crime Agency and the Home Office , which have have lot of meeting with these website , such as Vivastreet , seem to be take an approach that be not about the safeguarding of these woman , who be obviously be rape multiple time a day through these advert . we also know that Vivastreet and other platform be make a lot of money . it be quite clear from the evidence that we receive that the Home Office acknowledge that these website be fuel the sexual exploitation of woman and the trafficking of woman into this country . if the Minister and the Government do not do anything else , I really implore they to look at that section of our report , because it be shocking . indeed , all member of this House would do well to have a look as well . I thank the Chair for her statement . as a member of the Committee , I find this an interesting but deeply troubling area to look into . build on what the Chair have just say , the adult service website be one of the most pernicious part of our online economy , and the Home Office say that they be the " the most significant enabler " of online exploitation . we hear evidence that those that engage with law enforcement — which be not all of they , by any mean — can show pitifully few result from that engagement , in term of identify trafficking , help those individual or report to law enforcement . do the right hon . Member agree that one measure that we would like the Government to take be to work with the regulator to get these website to police their own platform and ensure that they well identify vulnerable people , but that if they fail to do so , the Government should work with the regulator to make sure they be force to do so ? I pay tribute to the hon . Gentleman , who be an excellent member of the Committee . I know that we all find the session when we hear from Vivastreet to be a distressing one . he be absolutely right in his suggestion ; indeed , I would go far . I be old enough to remember when there be a problem with pimp put these little card in phone box to advertise woman for prostitution , but the law be change and now that be not allow . Offline , they can not do that , but these advert be still online . that need to be address , and it be part of our big discussion about the online world . where there be abuse and criminal activity go on , I hope that the regulator will address it . as the Minister be in his place , I hope he will also take a good look at this and see what more this House can do . I , too , thank my right hon . friend and other member of the Committee for their deliberation on this important subject . the report be very thorough . I be pleased to hear her talk about the need to support and protect victim , because these people be indeed victim of horrendous crime . they be crime that we think the landmark Modern Slavery Act 2015 , introduce by the right hon . member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) , would seek to tackle , but unfortunately that have stall . be consideration give in my right hon . friend ' s report to the Government ' s insistence on approach this as an immigration matter and look at it through the prism of immigration law , rather than focus on the safeguarding of vulnerable woman and child ? I thank my hon . friend for that question ; that be an issue that concern the Committee greatly . we feel that this area be be view through the prism of immigration law , when it need to be view through the prism of safeguarding . we be very disappointed that it be move from the Minister for safeguarding in the Home Office and make the responsibility of the Immigration Minister . we do not think that that be the appropriate place for it to sit . just to reiterate , when we talk about traffic , we be talk about criminal offence against the individual , whereas with immigration law we be obviously talk about an offence against the state , which be quite different . I hope that the new Minister will reflect on that , because I understand that this be list among his responsibility , whereas the Committee ' s view be that it should move to the Minister in the Department who have responsibility for safeguarding . I call the shadow Minister . may I join other in thank my right hon . friend and all the other member of the Home Affairs Committee , and the Clerks and the staff , for the hard work they put into produce this important report ? as the report rightly say , human trafficking be a profit - drive crime that see innocent victim utterly exploit for financial gain . it be only by operate a zero - tolerance approach and give our criminal justice system the expertise it need to handle these complex case that we will see any real change . the report highlight a number of important issue and some omission in the Government ' s policy , and I be keen to hear my right hon . friend ' s thought on those . first , it recommend that the Home Office should urgently resume the publication of its annual report on human trafficking . this be not the first time that this issue have be raise , yet the Home Office have still not respond . do she agree that the Government have be too slow and that , as a consequence , there be insufficient transparency about the UK ' s performance in tackle human trafficking ? secondly , the report raise the concern that , in practice , human trafficking be no long a priority for the UK Government . that be not the case when the right hon . member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) be at the Home Office . do my right hon . friend agree that it be vital that the Government get the balance right , and that the Home Office ' s current approach be let down victim of human trafficking ? finally , member will be aware — it have be mention already — that in October the Government eventually appoint a new Independent Anti - Slavery Commissioner , after 18 month of the role be leave empty . however , there be concern about the government give this job — one previously hold by expert and senior police figure — to someone without a similar level of experience as her predecessor . do my right hon . friend think this be a wise appointment ? I absolutely agree with my hon . friend on the Front Bench about annual report . we have not have one for two year . there be something clearly wrong in the Home Office when it can not produce an annual report of its activity . sadly , we do think that victim be be let down . my hon . friend and other hon . member have refer to the fact that when the former Prime Minister , the right hon . member for Maidenhead , lead the charge with the Modern Slavery Act 2015 — it be her flagship piece of legislation — the UK be see to be a world leader in this area . sadly , over the last few year we have slip far and far behind . other country be now take on that mantle , which be a great pity and do not do justice to the right hon . Lady ' s legacy . on my hon . friend ' s final point , we be disappoint by how long it take to appoint an Independent Anti - Slavery Commissioner and by the lack of priority give to fill that post . as I say , we have no input into that — there be no pre - appointment hearing — so we be yet to see the person who have be appoint . we be look forward to see she at the end of January , and we certainly want someone who will stand up and make sure that the Government hear clearly what be and be not work in the field of modern slavery and trafficking . I be hearten to hear that the new person be talk very much about the victim and focus on they , which be absolutely vital . however , we will see she at the end of January , and we hope that we have someone who will be a strong advocate in this area . may I add my thank to the right hon . Member and her Committee for this comprehensive report on human trafficking ? we will of course consider all the recommendation and finding , and respond in the usual way . she will understand that I will refrain from give a full answer now — not least because you tell I not to , Madam Deputy Speaker — but the Government recognise the importance of this subject and will respond in due course in the usual way . may I also thank the right hon . member for the warm welcome she and her Committee give I yesterday ? because you have ask I to ask a question , Madam Deputy Speaker , I ask the right hon . member if she be look forward to work constructively with I and my ministerial team , as I be with she and her Committee ? rise — and she smile . well , I smile quite a lot actually , but perhaps not as much as I would like to at the Home Affairs Committee . I think we give the two new Ministers a warm welcome yesterday ; at time , we give they quite a roasting , actually . the House of Commons have give the member of the Home Affairs Committee , and myself as the Chair , the important job of scrutinise the Home Office , its policy , the way money be spend and what minister be do . I take that very seriously , as do the member of the Committee . of course we will want to work with the Minister , but we will scrutinise he and ask difficult question . when they attend , we expect Ministers and official to be fully brief and to give full answer to the question that member ask they in the role that we have be give by the House of Commons to scrutinise the Home Office . Backbench Business Knife crime [ Relevant Documents : e - petition 634860 , make knife crime prevention a compulsory requirement for all school curriculum ; e - petition 563199 , increase sentence relate to knife crime ; e - petition 300054 , introduce a minimum sentence for carry a knife , equal to carry a firearm . ] I beg to move , that this House have consider the matter of knife crime . it be a pleasure to be able to bring forward this important debate and I thank the Backbench Business Committee , of which I be a member , for grant it . I know member on both side of House take the matter of knife crime incredibly seriously , as do the Government , and I be sure the debate will demonstrate that . I appreciate that it have feel like a very busy week and many member be start to think about their family , constituency and Christmas , so I be grateful to those member who support my bid for the debate , especially those who be in the Chamber . on other occasion , many more people would have join we . it be apt that I have secure the debate today , because back home in my borough of Walsall , which be in the constituency of Aldridge - Brownhills , " the Knife Angel " , a powerful sculpture craft from surrendered knife , be stand tall in Walsall ' s Gallery Square until the end of this month . those who have already see it will know that it be an incredibly poignant symbol . it be symbolic of Walsall ' s ongoing commitment to combat knife crime and promote unity . this afternoon , member of the community , of all faith and none , have be invite to come together in Walsall for a walk of peace to reflect on violence and knife crime . the event , along with " the Knife Angel " , will give Walsall resident and visitor an opportunity to pause and reflect , and it will send a powerful message from the borough to challenge and confront the consequence of knife crime . in the year end March 2023 , there be approximately 50 , 500 knife crime offence in England and Wales . sadly , datum from the Office for National Statistics show that in 2022 - 23 the west midland record the high rate of offence , at 178 per 100 , 000 of population . with a population of 2 . 9 million , that equate to a staggering average of 5 , 197 knife crime offence in the west midland each year or 14 offence every single day . however , it be important to remember that this issue be not just about number , especially where life be lose , because behind every number there be a story , and behind every story there be a devastated , grieve family and love one , friend and colleague . all too often , there be also a shocked and shake community . I think of my own constituency , where James Brindley fall victim to an unprovoked fatal stabbing in 2017 as he walk home from a night out . his attacker be age 17 . there be question behind every number , and a search for the perpetrator and for answer to a life needlessly lose . my reason for secure the debate be to ask the Minister some of the question that have be raise with I , as well as raise the question and problem that so many , include the Government , be seek to tackle . I also want to highlight some important ongoing work and the fact that much more need to be do . identify and tackle the root cause be crucial . there be common theme that we can not ignore , around demographic and socioeconomic factor , include age , race and sex . much work and research have be do and be ongoing in that space . for example , in the year end March 2023 , across England and Wales there be 3 , 420 caution and conviction for possession of a knife or offensive weapon among young people age 10 to 17 . in the west midland , between January and September this year , 565 under - 18 be arrest on suspicion of knife - relate crime . all too often , child and young people who be not engage can be lure into street gang , violence and , sadly , even child criminal exploitation . I speak to the Wave Trust to get a deep understanding of the work it do and we discuss the need for a long - term approach to tackle issue around childhood trauma and parental violence and influence . the right hon . Member be make a powerful speech . on her point about child criminal exploitation , she will be aware that I chair the all - party parliamentary group on child criminal exploitation and knife crime and that we make the decision to change the name of that APPG . do she recognise that a number of group , include the Wave Trust , have be call for a statutory definition of CCE ? the hon . Lady should be applaud for her work and the work of the APPG that she chair . I be conscious of that call for action , to which I hope the Minister will respond . we recognise that work on knife crime cut across several Government Departments , include the Department for Education , the Ministry of Justice , the Department of Health and Social Care and the Home Office . I appreciate that my hon . and learn Friend the Member for Mid Dorset and North Poole ( Michael Tomlinson ) be now a Minister in the Home Office , but I be sure he will do his good to address a range of issue while recognise that they have implication across Government . typically , 90 % of attacker and victim be male . in London , 90 % of knife crime offender be male , and across England and Wales 91 % of people admit to hospital for assault by sharp object be male . low socioeconomic background be a factor too . a YouGov poll , commission by Barnardo ' s , find one in five parent say that they will struggle to have time off work to spend with their child , mean child be often leave unsupervised . what concern I most be when I hear young people say they carry a knife to make they feel safe . surely , that have to be change . in 2018 , the Government publish a serious violence strategy to look at the root cause of the problem and how to support young people to lead live away from violence . it be describe at the time as take a public health approach to serious violence , and various fund and programme be set up , such as the Youth Endowment Fund and violence reduction unit . will the Minister update we on what his Department be do to go far , work multi - agency with partner and community organisation on a number of level ? this issue be also recognise by my hon . friend the Member for Stourbridge ( Suzanne Webb ) . she can not be in the Chamber today , but she often speak on the topic of knife crime . I wish to highlight to the Minister the first knife summit that she hold recently , which join together local community organisation , the police and the Midlands Air Ambulance Charity to discuss the need for a whole - community approach . in August , the Home Office make a very welcome announcement on the banning of machete and Zombie - style knife . it also say that the police be to be give new power to seize and destroy any weapon that they find . I , along with other , will continue to call for that to happen and I look forward to see the necessary legislation pass through this place — I believe that it be come in the Criminal Justice Bill , but perhaps the Minister can confirm that . locally to I in the west midland , the Express & Star newspaper have be actively campaign on the issue , too . we need to see that legislation in place soon rather than later . in addition to the work of Ministers and the Government , it be important that we recognise and reinforce other route to tackle this problem . for example , in Aldridge , follow the tragic death of their beloved son , Mark and Beverley Brindley set up the Brindley Foundation to bring about positive social change and to reduce youth violence . their campaign include lifeorknife and the setting up of 12 knife amnesty bin across Walsall Borough for people to throw away their knife anonymously . recognise that young people need support and that they need to be part of the solution include education , mentoring and training . the Brindley Foundation initiative also have support from local business . another way would be to look at relationship , health and sex education in our school so that child can learn about positive change and consequential thinking . I urge the Government to look again at this , because currently there be no national programme of education for child and young people and no target guideline in the curriculum for such behaviour or prevention . my right hon . friend be make a fantastic speech on the importance of the whole community approach to this matter . will she also join I in thank the Mizen Foundation , which be set up by a family in Sidcup ? follow their own grief from the death of their son , the family go in and out of school across the country , encourage that positive change in behaviour . absolutely , I commend the work that the family do . yet again , it be a poignant example of how , when tragedy hit , so many family seek to find answer and way to help themselves deal with the loss of a love one through help other . I absolutely recognise the work that they do . a petition to make knife crime prevention a compulsory requirement on the school curriculum have attract more than 10 , 000 signature . locally in Walsall , our conservative councillor be also work hard with partner to tackle knife crime , recognise the need for a broad and holistic approach . central to that be the need for a partnership between police and crime commissioner , local authority and the third sector . I be pleased and proud that Walsall Borough Council , under the stewardship of Garry Perry , one of my local councillor , be work closely with the third sector and with organisation such as the Brindley Foundation to ensure that this issue receive the attention and prominence that it deserve . political leadership matter , too . sadly , I do not always feel that we be see enough of that in the west midland , where we have some of the high rate of knife crime . there be often a void when it come to work with local authority and the third sector across the whole region . I be pleased to see the role of PCC be roll into that of the West Midlands Mayor . this create an excellent opportunity to bring together strong political leadership with — and this be important — a targeted and effective use of resource . the first knife bin be roll out in Aldridge , and Mayor Andy Street join we that day , recognise the need both for a holistic approach , and for we to stand together , shoulder to shoulder , to rise to the challenge of tackle the problem . he also vow to put a stop to plan to close 30 police station across the region , include my own in Aldridge , which be also an important part of the solution . another area that I would like the Minister to consider , perhaps with his colleague in the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , be the role of license committee . I have see example where those committee need to work well and more effectively with the local police , for instance , when it come to request for curfew as a method of public protection in town centre with challenging night - time economy . the installation and enforcement of knife arch in night club and the provision of bleed kit be practical measure that could and should be mandate for specific venue , and I would like to hear the Minister ' s view on that as well . at this point , I would like to mention and pay tribute to those at the Queens pub in Pelsall . back in January , they begin fundraise for a defibrillator and a bleed kit . this autumn , after numerous raffle , a collection tin in the pub and generous support from people across the local community , both of those be instal in memory of local lad , Reagan , who , sadly , lose his life to knife crime in 2017 . as I draw my contribution to this debate to a conclusion , I wish to acknowledge the work that the Government and other be do on this topic and the fact that they have show themselves willing to undertake more to address the issue of heinous knife crime . I commend and welcome the action to date , but it be clear that further action be require , and be require now , to avoid more life simply become a number on a data spreadsheet , and also , importantly , to strengthen our community . with that , I stand committed to the cause . I pay tribute to the right hon . member for Aldridge - Brownhills ( Wendy Morton ) for sponsor this critical debate and for her powerful opening speech . I declare an interest as the co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group on child criminal exploitation and knife crime , which use to be call the APPG on knife crime and youth violence . therein lie the problem : knife crime be often see as an issue that affect just young people , but that be not the case . after I take up chairing that all - party group , with the support of its member we change the name to reflect the nature of the crime and the number of young people who be be coerce and criminally exploit to the point where they be carry knife . I hope that , in his sum up , the Minister will tell we how the Government will address that . Knife crime have go up by more than 70 % in eight year , and the devastating impact of this rise be be feel right across the country . my constituency of Vauxhall , just across the bridge from here , lie in the borough of Lambeth . sadly , we see more than 700 case of knife crime in Lambeth in just one year alone , and over 200 of those case cause horrific injury . it be important to offer some of the case behind those statistic to understand the complexity of the trauma of knife crime . in the summer , two man be victim of a suspect homophobic knife attack outside the two Brewers in Clapham . thankfully , the two victim be discharge from hospital shortly afterwards , but this attack be highly disturbing to many people in the LGBTQ + community in Clapham and across London . although serious injury and physical trauma be avoid , there be a huge amount of emotional and mental trauma attach to those attack , and we must acknowledge that when we talk about knife crime . as the right hon . Lady say , we also have to consider the impact that it have on community , the potential that it have to amplify violence against marginalised group and the general fear that that can create . there be another case in my constituency , very close to my church , very close to my old primary school and very close to where I use to live . on 1 May , in broad daylight , 31 - year - old Johanita Dogbey be stab from behind by someone who be unknown to she . since then , her family have be deal with the devastating impact of lose their daughter , while fight for justice and wait for justice to come . I have refer to this before , but when you sit with grieve family in their front room , and you look at the pain and despair in their eye , and glance over their shoulder and see the smile , happy picture , you just think , " why ? " nothing can prepare you for that in this role . it be one of the hard thing that a number of we have have to do as elect representative . every time I hear about another stabbing , or get a text from the police or an email update , I just think , " I hope this isn ' t fatal . " Johanita ' s death will leave a hole in the heart of her family , but there must be support to deal with the personal trauma of such case . the two case that I have reference show the diversity of the impact of knife crime . it create trauma , worry and violence , but we must understand that the trauma will function differently in virtually all the different knife attack that we have see , not just in Lambeth but across the country . we all recognise that deal with knife crime can not be party political . every day , another community and family have to bury their love one . they do not want we to bring party politic into it . for they the pain be raw . they just want answer , and to know how we can stop people carry knife . no one - size - fit - all policy will stop all knife crime , or manage the trauma that it create . we have to take a holistic approach , whether that mean recognise the impact of knife crime on the LGBTQ + community when they be target , recognise the true shock of knife crime for family and how we can provide support to love one , or recognise that we can not fall into stereotype about the cause , perpetrator or victim of knife crime when develop policy . in my former role as the Assembly Member for Lambeth and Southwark , I author a report on gang - associate girl and the impact it have on they . I be shocked to see from Metropolitan police datum that just six girl and young woman be identify in the Met police gang matrix , and how limit the piecemeal provision be for help to deal with the trauma that impact woman and girl . in our response to knife crime , we need to think a lot more about the psychological trauma , and recognise the sign of that trauma when deal with case — trauma from the incident , and the trauma that lead people to carry a knife in the first place . I refer to child criminal exploitation . childhood trauma have a specific impact from and on knife crime , and we need a specific holistic approach within our justice system to child criminal exploitation . it be painful to see child — some as young as seven — go through the criminal justice system . if we look back at the pattern , we see that those child have probably witness a stabbing , and have probably be coerce to carry drug in county line . if a child as young as 10 or 11 , who should be in school in Lambeth in my constituency , have be arrest in Peterborough with a package of drug on he , we need to ask ourselves how he get those drug . I think we all recognise the importance of the early year . this debate have originally be schedule on a Thursday to follow a debate on the early year , which would have be timely . do the hon . Member agree that it be important to recognise the link with the early year and what happen in the family , which can be so influential on child as they grow up ? I thank the right hon . Lady for that powerful intervention , which take we back to childhood trauma and the childhood link . we need to start to have a holistic , wraparound approach with family and child — in some case , those of primary school age . at the moment , a lot of support and funding be focus on secondary school child . in some case , that be far too late ; those child have be coerce to the point where they have join gang , and it be too late for they to turn their life around . sadly , some of they will end up dead , so it be important that we tackle knife crime from a young age , teach our young child about the danger and why they should not carry a knife . we know that some young people be scared . they be scared of the adult who be coerce they into a dangerous lifestyle . they be scared because , in some case , they come from a dysfunctional family and their parent have break up . they be scared because of the mental trauma from what they have witness . they be scared because they have receive an embrace , and an old person from the gang have take they in , as a family . these child want to be love and to belong , yet they be belong in the wrong place . it be important that , instead of criminalise such child — some of they from an early age — we recognise that they be be exploit . we should have a statutory definition of child criminal exploitation . member of the 2019 intake celebrate four year since be elect early this week . in January 2020 , shortly after I be elect , I refer in my maiden speech to have be one of the first people to turn up when a young boy be stab , just across the road from my constituency , on De Laune Street in Kennington . that late afternoon in January , I be on my way to pick up my son from nursery . my daughter be in the back of the car ; I have pick she up from reception . I mention that because I do not know what have happen , but someone be slump on the road . as I get close in the car and pull over , it transpire that he have be stab . I mention in my maiden speech that people be walk past we . that be really painful , because we be allow ourselves to become desensitise to knife crime . I do not claim to be a first aid responder or anything — I be petrify of the sight of blood — but along with another lady who come out from the block of flat , I fold up a blanket , I think it be , and stem the blood . the long and short of it be that the ambulance come . my frantic call to the emergency service probably do not make sense because I be just scream , " you need to get here now ! " the poor call handler would have be think , " what be this woman ramble on about ? " I be scared . I be just think , " this boy be go to die . " thankfully , the boy do not die . we manage to stem the blood , and he be lucky . during lockdown , I receive an email from his teacher , who it turn out life in my constituency . he say , " the young boy be make a good recovery , but thank you . " I know how frightening it can be for anyone to be in that situation , but we need to look at how we can help people to have the skill and mean to stem the flow of blood as quickly and effectively as possible , because every second will make such a big difference after a trauma or stabbing . I echo what the right hon . member for Aldridge - Brownhills say : I hope that the Minister will look at raise awareness of stab kit and the first aid response to knife crime , and how to distribute more of those stab kit in shop and other area . I hope that he will recognise the value of a number of youth organisation , not just in my constituency but across the country , that work with some of the most vulnerable child and young adult , and help they to turn their life around . the reality be that those organisation be work on a shoestring budget . youth service be still not deem to be a statutory provision . in London , with the support of the Mayor of London and City Hall , there be fund for a number of youth project , include in my Vauxhall constituency . those youth group make such a big difference to the value of people ' s life . for a number of young people , the intervention of those group , and the trust that the youth worker build with they , make the difference between that young person live or die . that be the power of a valuable , well - fund youth service , so I hope that the Minister will recognise that the cut to local government have have an impact . many youth club have close . young adult should not be able to access such provision and extra - curricular activity only if their parent , carer or grandparent can afford they ; they should be available to all young people , so that during those crucial hour between 3 pm and 7 pm after school , which be when a number of these incident happen , our young people have something positive to be engage in . I will finish by say that this year mark the 23rd anniversary of a stabbing that I think we all remember : that of Damilola Taylor on 27 November 2000 . as I post about he on the anniversary , we all remember the grainy image of the young boy skip along outside Peckham library in the silver puffa jacket — a young life take so tragically . I mention that case because I think it be a turning point when , no matter where people be in the country , they want to see an end to knife crime and an end to stabbing . it pain I that here in 2023 we can recount so many other tragic case that have happen since that one , and we still do not have a grip on the situation . yes , in some place the figure have go down , but every knife crime , every stabbing that result in someone die , every grieve family be one too far . those family do not want to be know as a statistic ; they just want we all to work in a cross - party way to address this scourge . it be genuinely a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Vauxhall ( Florence Eshalomi ) . she give a powerful and think - provoke speech ; I would struggle to find anything in it that I disagree with , and I suspect the whole House would join I in pay tribute to she for step in to help a victim of stab in her own constituency . she may well be terrify of blood , but it take real courage to be there and to provide assistance , and she have give we all an awful lot to reflect upon . it be important to recognise that nowhere be exempt from the harm cause by knife . they be a danger in rural area just as they be in inner city . as you may be aware , Madam Deputy Speaker , prior to my election to this House I spend many year involve in the criminal justice system , include as a non - executive director of his Majesty ' s Prison and Probation Service , as a member of the Sentencing Council , as a magistrate and as a board member of the Youth Justice Board , and it be the young whom I be most concerned about . I therefore congratulate my right hon . friend the Member for Aldridge - Brownhills ( Wendy Morton ) on secure this debate , because it enable we to talk about the impact of knife crime on the young in particular . accord to the most recent statistic , a fifth of all knife crime be commit by those under the age of 17 , who be legally child . when I be a magistrate in the youth court , I would often find young boy — they be invariably boy rather than girl — bring before the bench for carry a bladed article . when I ask why they be carry the bladed article , almost every young boy would give the same answer : they carry the knife for their own protection . it make they feel safe . astonishingly , the Ben Kinsella Trust have report that child as young as nine believe that . tragically , nothing could be far from the truth . carry a knife do not make they safe ; in fact , it put they in far more danger . as well as the threat to their own life , it risk a rapid journey on the path to serious criminality . put simply , carry a knife make someone much more likely to use it or have it use against they , and the consequence can be devastating . we have see too many awful example in recent month and year of gang wield machete and child stab other child at school . we all know that prevention be well than cure , so I be very pleased that the Government be commit to tackle the horror of knife on our street nationally , with an investment of more than £ 110 million in 2023 - 24 to fight knife crime , include a focus on 20 violence reduction unit and fund for hotspot police in the most seriously affect area . I welcome that . in my own area , there have be considerable success in tackle knife crime , and I put on record my thank to the Thames Valley police and crime commissioner , Matt Barber , for his focus on that . he have adopt a zero - tolerance approach to knife crime call Operation Deter , which be launch in Milton Keynes in the middle of last year , come to my Aylesbury constituency soon afterwards and be now be roll out across the entire Thames Valley force area . Op Deter ' s main objective be to make well use of charge and remand offender age 18 and over to court , send a robust message to anyone find in possession of a knife : " if you be catch , you will be deal with incredibly swiftly by both the police and the court . " overall , since July 2022 , Op Deter have see well over 1 , 000 arrest , and about half of those arrest have be charge and remand into custody . the scheme have result in approximately 100 custodial sentence in addition to numerous suspend sentence and community order . that speedy intervention and no - nonsense approach by Thames Valley police be help to make Aylesbury safe , with a clear understanding that there be zero tolerance for knife crime in our town . I be very pleased that in some part of the force area , the local youth offend team be immediately notify when a child be arrest for carry a knife , and a representative of that youth offend team then attend the police station within 90 minute to meet the young person , give they the maximum incentive to engage as early as possible . I would like that approach to become much more widespread . I recognise that it be resource intensive , but it be important to get help and practical advice to those young people as soon as be possible . that echo , I think , the hon . member for Vauxhall ' s argument that the reason young child carry knife be frequently very complex . we need to get a much well understanding of they and tackle the cause . as I have say in this place before , it be not about find an excuse for those people , but about look at the cause and try to tackle they to avoid repetition . I be very pleased to learn that Op Deter have be highlight as an example of good practice in a recent " in Focus " report by the Association of Police and Crime Commissioners , which concentrate on innovative and effective approach to tackle serious violence . I hope that that article will spur other police force to look at similar activity in other part of the country . in my local area , we also have other initiative to combat knife crime , recognise that it be not just a job for the police , as other hon . member have say . I recently attend an excellent community event to tackle anti - social behaviour that be hold in Elmhurst and organise by Buckinghamshire Council , the local authority . the neighbourhood police team there have develop strategy to divert vulnerable young people away from knife that encompass other part of that community , and their work with child and young adult be very encouraging . one effective initiative have be the use of three knife amnesty bin — importantly , include one that be not in the police station . it be outside Southcourt Baptist Church , where people feel much safe go to deposit their knife or their bladed article . my hon . friend make a really important point ; from the learning that I have do through the James Brindley Foundation this point about anonymity and knife bin be very clear . do he agree that we must continuously seek to create opportunity for safe disposal of those type of weapon ? it must be do in the right way , otherwise it fail before it even start . my right hon . friend be 100 % correct . More than half the knife that have be deposit in Aylesbury be deposit at Southcourt Baptist Church , presumably because people feel safe . I know that the neighbourhood police team in Aylesbury be look for other site that be away from the police station where they can install knife bin . of course , the slight challenge be that it must be something that be absolutely secure and where other people can not get to that bin to access the bladed article and use they for nefarious purpose , but clearly there be place that can be find and that be successful , and I absolutely endorse what she say about encourage that . another approach Southcourt Baptist Church be work hard on be provide constructive activity for child to help reduce the risk of their become involve in criminal activity in the first place . boxing be prove particularly popular and effective in give young people something constructive to do with their time , so that they do not risk get catch up with other people who would encourage they to take part in illegal activity . I thank the hon . gentleman for make such a powerful speech . he talk about the fantastic work that that baptist church be do in his constituency . my first youth club setting be at my church hall . do he recognise that we need to work with the faith community to look at an approach to knife crime ? for a number of family , their first port of call and the first people they turn to be their faith leader . the hon . Lady be absolutely right . as I be say a little early , it be about different part of the community . it be not always the role of the Government or the local authority to provide those facility , because they do not necessarily set up the right atmosphere for young people . it be interesting that people will go into a church or another kind of faith community , or indeed an alternative community area , because they feel safe and trust there , not judge . it be vital that everybody recognise that . to that end , other organisation in Aylesbury be have a positive impact on vulnerable child . just a couple of month ago , I visit the Aylesbury Youth Motor Project , a special garage that provide vocational training to child . it be inspiring to see the impact on young people of that garage ' s hand - on approach to course and the strong mentoring provide by the mechanic . they be primarily mechanic rather than train youth worker or qualified teacher , but they be people to whom those particular young people can relate — they trust the mechanic and listen to their advice in a way that they perhaps do not with what we might consider more conventional authority figure . the boy at the Aylesbury Youth Motor Project be very blunt with I : traditional education do not suit everybody , and go to that garage be keep they off the street and stop they commit crime . I do not have to put those word in their mouth ; they tell I clearly . project like that be incredibly important . I do not think any of we would disagree that knife crime be a serious blight on our community . blade be use by criminal to kill and maim . they have become glamourise , but there be no glamour in death and serious injury , and there be no excuse for carry a knife . I be very pleased that Aylesbury be see success in tackle that menace . I will continue to work with all the group there to make our town even safe . I encourage Ministers , not just in the Home Office and the Ministry of Justice but across the whole of Government , as my right hon . friend the Member for Aldridge - Brownhills say , to look at the work not only of Thames Valley police but of the like of Southcourt Baptist Church and the Aylesbury Youth Motor Project , because it will take the whole community to stop the scourge of knife crime . this have be an important and constructive debate . I commend the right hon . member for Aldridge - Brownhills ( Wendy Morton ) for secure it and the Backbench Business Committee for grant it . the right hon . Lady give an excellent speech . I be particularly strike by what she say about " the Knife Angel " in her constituency . as she say , it be an incredibly poignant symbol reflect on violence and knife crime . perhaps I could have be clear . for absolute clarity , " the Knife Angel " be in Walsall borough but not in my constituency — I be on one side of the borough . it be in the town of Walsall , in the constituency of the right hon . member for Walsall South ( Valerie Vaz ) . I be grateful to the right hon . Lady for make that clarification , but her point be important none the less . often , we talk of the perpetrator of knife crime — it be right that we do — but we should never forget that it be too often young people who be the victim . as member of this House , we owe it to the victim and their love one to come up with solution to this epidemic , and to ensure that no child or parent face the tragic consequence of knife crime on our street . in that spirit , there have be a number of considered and thoughtful contribution to the debate . my hon . friend the Member for Vauxhall ( Florence Eshalomi ) speak movingly about the trauma that knife crime cause her constituent and about the pain experience by the victim ' s family . the hon . member for Aylesbury ( Rob Butler ) effectively bring to bear his long experience of the criminal justice system . he make an important point about tackle the cause to avoid repetition . I will take this opportunity to tell the tragic story of Ronan Kanda , and his family ' s campaign for justice . I know that the shadow police Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Croydon Central ( Sarah Jones ) , meet the family alongside their local MP , my right hon . friend the Member for Wolverhampton South East ( Mr McFadden ) , to learn about Ronan ' s story . Ronan , a beloved son and brother , be just 16 year old when he be kill while walk home in Wolverhampton . just a few yard from his front door , Ronan be attack from behind by two 16 - year - old carry a machete and a ninja sword . Ronan be stab twice and suffer wound to his back and chest . tragically , he die at the scene . it be later reveal that the perpetrator of this heinous act have mistake Ronan for someone else — order . I hesitate to interrupt the hon . gentleman because this be a very sensitive and very sad matter , but I want to be certain that we be observe the sub judice rule . I be sure that he be well aware of what he can and can not say , but I just want to be certain that nothing he say will prejudice anything that might come before the court . I be very grateful , Madam Deputy Speaker . I can give that assurance . I have be incredibly careful about describe the circumstance of the case , as I will be able to confirm in just a moment . thank you . the weapon use in the attack have be buy online by the perpetrator , who be just 16 year old themselves , use another person ' s ID . they collect the item from a local post office on the day of the attack . in July of this year , they be sentence to 16 year and 18 year in prison respectively for their crime . understandably , Ronan ' s family have be completely devastate by his tragic loss . courageously , they now campaign for ninja sword — the type of knife use in Ronan ' s murder — to be take off the street once and for all , so that no other family should suffer the loss that they have suffer . the Government be right to want to give police more power to seize and destroy such weapon , and they will have our support . however , we do not believe that the current ban go far enough , as it still do not include the type of sword that kill Ronan . will the Minister explain the Government ' s reasoning for that , or , well still , will he confirm that the Government ' s position be that such sword should be cover under forthcoming legislation ? during these debate , we must never forget the human cost of knife crime for victim and their family , as in Ronan ' s case . many family struggle to comprehend the senseless murder of their love one . the strength of Ronan ' s family in say , " never again should anyone suffer our pain , " should inspire we all in this House to act accordingly . that be need now more than ever because , sadly , more young life be be lose . last year see the high number of people kill with a knife for over 70 year . the big increase be among young boy age 16 to 17 . Knife crime rate remain stubbornly high . compare with 2015 , total knife crime be up 70 % , include record level of knife - enable rape and threat to kill . last year , 75 % of teenage homicide involve a knife or sharp instrument . as a consequence , it be now think that more than 200 , 000 child be vulnerable to serious violence . between 2021 and 2022 , a record number of child be victim of crime . we need decisive action now . as I be sure the Minister would agree , the first duty of any Government be to keep their people safe . on these fundamental question , the Government need to show leadership in turn the tide on this knife crime epidemic . labour have , for our part , set a route forward . our community policing guarantee will put police back into town centre and neighbourhood to make street safe again , with increase patrol and 13 , 000 more neighbourhood police and police community support officer . too often in recent year , criminal have go unpunished while victim have suffer the consequence . this can not continue . labour will put an end to that scandal . ally to those plan , the shadow Home Secretary , my right hon . friend the Member for Normanton , Pontefract and Castleford ( Yvette Cooper ) , set out our proposal for a new national programme , work across Departments , to give Britain ' s young people the good start in life . the " Young Futures " programme would act as a sure Start for young people . it will also include a specific strand of activity target at young people most at risk of be draw into violent crime , and will deliver help for young people who be struggle with their mental health . that will support our aim of halve serious violence , include knife crime and youth violence , within a decade — tackle crime and tackle the cause of crime . tackle the scourge of knife crime will require a cross - Government approach , new youth hub , and proper local plan to identify those who be most at risk and help they access the support they need . it also mean Government Departments , school and local service work together so that service operate around young people and their family , rather than in separate silo . it mean get the basic right , with more police officer on the street and work in our community to bring criminal to justice . this be a serious issue , and it require a serious response . those on the Opposition Benches stand ready to meet the challenge . may I join the shadow Minister in agree that this have be an important and constructive debate , and in praise my right hon . friend the Member for Aldridge - Brownhills ( Wendy Morton ) for secure it and all member who have contribute so constructively and expertly ? I will start by pick up two point in my right hon . friend ' s speech , before pick up more of the thread . I join she in welcome the campaign by her local newspaper The Express and Star to highlight this really important issue . I also welcome the role of the police and crime commissioner be roll into that of the Mayor of the West Midlands . I agree with she that that will be a constructive move , and I look forward to it with she . the hon . member for Vauxhall ( Florence Eshalomi ) speak powerfully and with authority , as she always do , and I will comment on some of the point that she raise . I commend she for the work do by the all - party parliamentary group on child criminal exploitation and knife crime , and I acknowledge the change in name that she have champion . she speak powerfully and reflect on her maiden speech , and she mention some youth organisation . she have a constructive debate across the Chamber with my hon . friend the Member for Aylesbury ( Rob Butler ) , who acknowledge the work of voluntary organisation , church and other faith group . I commend my hon . friend the Member for Aylesbury for mention Southcourt Baptist church and the excellent work that it have do . I acknowledge his expertise as a former board member of the Youth Justice Board and a former justice of the peace . I be a youth court aficionado in my young day — as a young barrister , I should add . carry a knife do not make someone safe — quite the contrary . may I address directly the shadow Minister ' s point about sword , which be a serious one ? since the launch of the consultation to which I will turn in a moment , there have be interest in extend the ban to sword , and I understand the reasoning . however , the police have tell we that the great risk at the moment be the use of zombie - style knife and machete , so that be the focus of the work . it will be keep under review , and I be grateful to he for raise that issue . may I now turn to some of the more specific issue raise by my right hon . friend the Member for Aldridge - Brownhills ? both she and my hon . friend the Member for Aylesbury mention violence reduction unit . he mention that 20 have be roll out across the country , deliver a range of early intervention and prevention programme to divert people away from a life of crime . the approach be work and be a good start , and the Grip hotspot be have an effect . I know that my right hon . friend the Member for Aldridge - Brownhills will welcome that , and I can confirm that the West Midlands police receive funding , and rightly so , for both of those programme . may I turn to the consultation , which have be mention a number of time ? early this year , there be five proposal to tackle knife crime during the course of that consultation . we have be take they forward and will do so in a suitable way . my right hon . friend the Member for Aldridge - Brownhills ask I how and when . as a former member of the Committee of Selection , she might like to look out in the new year for a particular statutory instrument Committee that will be of interest to she . I can not confirm the precise date , but I know that she will have way and mean of find out precisely how to get on to that Committee and to be a strong voice during the passage of that statutory instrument . we will introduce a ban on certain type of large knife that seem to appeal to those who want to use they as weapon . we will give the police more power to seize those dangerous weapon , and create a new offence of possession of a bladed weapon with intent to harm , as well as increase sentence . may I turn to some of the other point that have be raise , and to some of the other action that the Government be take ? let I touch on serious violence reduction order . in April we launch a pilot for serious violence reduction order , with the west midland be one of the four pilot area . these civil order give the police the authority to stop and search know knife and weapon carrier , and they be design both to deter and to protect . one of the most important thing that my right hon . friend the Member for Aldridge - Brownhills mention be cross - government work . she be absolutely right to do so , and a number of other pick up on this theme . that be absolutely right , because tackle knife crime require a truly cross - Government approach . we be work very closely with other Departments , and I shall mention just three . the Department for Culture , Media and Sport recently announce the new Building Futures programme , which will provide mentoring and life skill training to those at risk of fall out of education — the Minister sit next to I , my right hon . friend the Member for Maldon ( Sir John Whittingdale ) , be nod vigorously in support of that . there be also a new summer job programme target at 2 , 600 young people at risk of involvement in youth violence and crime . I thank the Minister for highlight those really important point . my constituency of Vauxhall be home to the wonderful south bank , and a number of organisation do powerful work in get young people from diverse and untraditional background into the creative industry and into art and medium . they need more funding for that . I invite the hon . Lady to lobby the Department for Culture , Media and Sport . if she stay for the next debate , she may even be able to lobby a Minister in person , but her bid have be hear loud and clear . I turn now to the Department for Education , which be do some work with a project call SAFE — support , Attain , Fulfil , Exceed . there be £ 30 million - worth of funding for the taskforce . they be be deliver in 10 serious violence hotspot and aim to keep young people engage in mainstream education . I will also mention the Ministry of Justice , because it have be mention during the debate . there be a programme call Turnaround , which provide extra funding for youth offend team to intervene early and to ensure that child who be on the cusp of offend or be target be connect . in the minute or so that I have leave , may I close by thank right hon . and hon . member for their contribution to this very constructive debate ? I agree that the scourge of knife crime be not a party political issue ; it be a cross - party issue . I pay tribute not just to the right hon . and hon . member who have speak in the debate , but to the parent of Jimmy and the Mizen Foundation . I be grateful to my hon . friend the Member for Old Bexley and Sidcup ( Mr French ) for raise that . may I also pay tribute to the family of James Brindley and the Brindley Foundation ? I know how hard it be to lose a young family member . in pay tribute to James Brindley ' s family and other , may I say that they be continue to ensure that something good might come from such tragedy ? I simply want to thank the member who have contribute to this debate after a very busy week . it demonstrate how , on topic such as this , the House come together . we will continue to ask question and to challenge the Government , but I think we all accept that this be a very complex problem . to tackle a problem , we need to really understand it . I feel assured that we will all continue to work together , because we know how important this problem be . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider the matter of knife crime . what an extremely good debate . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . early , at business question , the hon . member for Bridgwater and West Somerset ( Mr Liddell - Grainger ) make a factually inaccurate and outlandish claim , which he may wish to come to the House to correct . I should say that I have notify he . can you inform I , Madam Deputy Speaker , whether make this accusation be appropriate ? I will explain far . the hon . Member allege that the chair of the Mid Devon District Council scrutiny committee , whom he name directly , be host a Christmas party fund by local government fund . that simply be not true . the party that the chair of the scrutiny committee , Councillor Rachel Gilmour , will be throw on Sunday — it be open to anyone who wish to join — will be fund by private fund . she will be pay for it herself . I wonder whether it would be appropriate to invite the hon . member to correct the record . I thank hon . gentleman for his point of order . as ever , it be not for the Chair to adjudicate on the veracity of anything that anyone say in this House . those be often matter of opinion . it would appear that the matter to which the hon . Gentleman refer be not a matter of opinion but a matter of fact . of course , I do not know the fact . the hon . Gentleman clearly wish to draw attention to his disagreement with the hon . member for Bridgwater and West Somerset ( Mr Liddell - Grainger ) over the fact in question — I be pleased to hear that he notify that hon . member of his intention to raise the point of order — and I can only say that he have do so , but it be not a matter for the Chair . three and Vodafone : Potential Merger [ relevant document : oral evidence take before the Business and Trade Sub - Committee on National Security and Investment on 12 December 2023 , on the NSI Act 2021 : Annual Report 2022 - 2023 , HC 365 ; and oral evidence take before the Business and Trade Committee on 17 October 2023 , on the Three - Vodafone merger : implication for competition , HC 1869 . ] I beg to move , that this House have consider the potential merger of Three and Vodafone . I be grateful to the Backbench Business Committee for make time for this debate on what will be one of the large merger we see in this country this year . the merger have profound implication for the security , the cost and the quality of that everyday essential in the life of our constituent : their mobile phone . the debate be not simply about a merger ; it be on three significant question about the way in which our economy be now run . first — this be at the heart of the debate and a big question — be our investment security regime fit for purpose in a world where the threat be continue to multiply ? secondly , be we be prepared to see the good , honest force of competition continue to wither ? thirdly , in a country where business investment continue to disappoint , will the deal help or not ? the fact be pretty straightforward . three , which be own by CK Hutchison , and Vodafone have announce a deal to merge . it be a £ 15 billion deal , which will create the large operator in the market — big than ee or O2 . crucially , it will reduce the number of mobile network operator from four to three , and the merged entity will be enormous . if the merger go through , it will control half the UK ' s mobile spectrum . the Competition and Markets Authority be look at the competition dimension , but we need to understand what the Government — either the Cabinet office or the Minister in his place — will do to ensure that the deal be bring in to the Investment Security Unit for the hard possible review under the term of the National Security and Investment Act 2021 . the case for the merger have be well rehearse , and the Business and Trade Committee have take evidence to try to unpack it . three and Vodafone say that the deal will create a big firm that can compete much more effectively . they say that it will stimulate investment in the mobile network operator market and allow they to eliminate the overlap between their network and use that money to build a mobile network with 25 , 000 mast , which will extend mobile coverage into the notspot that be so frustrating for many of our constituent . however , we need answer to some basic question , and those start with national security , which must always be the principal consideration for we in the House when we look at such question . we can not avoid the fact that the propose deal will put 49 % of the merged three - Vodafone business into the hand of the CK group . that group be base in Hong Kong and , as such , fall under the ambit of the Hong Kong national security law . as the House know , once upon a time , Hong Kong be consider meaningfully different from mainland China , but the introduction of the national security law have destroy Hong Kong ' s legal autonomy . it now provide chinese authority with the power to demand user datum from company under the threat of fine , asset seizure , or indeed imprisonment . furthermore , CK ' s leader be not unconnected to the chinese state — far from it . Li Ka - shing , the founder of CK Hutchison , have in the past voice his support for China ' s draconian move in Hong Kong . his son , Victor Li , be a member of the 14th national committee of the chinese people ' s political consultative conference of the People ' s Republic of China , and be a member of the Chief Executive ' s council of adviser of the Hong Kong special administrative region . Mr Li be a supporter of John Lee , the chief executive of Hong Kong and the former police chief who lead the effort to crack down on the pro - democracy protest movement in 2019 . those fact be completely central to the debate on whether the merger should go through . as the Intelligence and Security Committee have make clear in its brilliant report on China , the problem be China ' s whole - of - state approach . in that report , it note that " chinese state - own and non - state - own company , as well as academic and cultural establishment and ordinary chinese citizen , be liable to be ( willingly or unwillingly ) co - opt into espionage and interference operation overseas " . that be its consider judgment . that warning come on top of those we have already have from Richard Moore , the chief of MI6 , who declare in July that China aim to strike deal with other country that allow it to capture datum on citizen and national project . he say that " chinese authority be not hugely trouble by question of personal privacy or individual datum security . " furthermore , Dr Alexi Drew , in a brilliant report commission by Unite the union , find that risk of datum transfer and data collection naturally , obviously and directly create risk of surveillance , blackmail and economic intelligence gathering . of course , in three , the CK group already run a mobile company , but the three - Vodafone merger will give the CK group a 49 % share in a combined company that will run some of the most sensitive mobile and datum contract in the country , include NHS 111 , police department , the Ministry of Defence , the Ministry of Justice , and the monitoring system in the Cabinet Office . the merger will radically extend CK Hutchison ' s access to UK telecom datum from 9 . 5 million user to more than 27 million user — an almost threefold increase in the number of user , and their datum , to which the CK group will have access . these be not just worry that we should be debate in this House , but worry that have already prompt our ally to act . on 15 September last year , President Biden announce that the risk of access to Americans ' private datum would be a factor in block investment deal . on Tuesday , the National Security and Investment Sub - Committee of the Business and Trade Committee hold its first ministerial meeting and hearing with the Minister of State , Cabinet Office , the hon . member for Wealden ( Ms Ghani ) . that be the first chance that we as a House have have to cross - examine a Minister on the UK investment screening process . in that cross - examination , I put it to the Minister that our investment security process be now out of date , and ask she whether there be a case for update the investment security regime in the light of modern threat as we now understand they . she say , " yes " , and also that " the regime we have at the moment be pretty robust , but it start off a couple of year ago , and we need to be aware of how new technology could be an issue that we need to incorporate into the process . " she go on to say that " I have a personal view ; I do think that we should be far investigate the issue around datum capability " and conclude that " my personal view be that the accumulation of datum against citizen of the UK be something that we need to explore if it can be exploit . " there we have it : the head of MI6 be warn about the risk of China exfiltrate datum ; our ally be put up and update investment security regime to stop chinese access to datum ; and out of an abundance of prudence , we be block company such as Huawei and TikTok because we be worried about chinese access to datum , yet the Vodafone - three merger would allow a group with strong link to the chinese state unparalleled access to datum that flow through contract with the Ministry of Defence , the Ministry of Justice and the pan - Government protective monitoring service for the Cabinet Office — and the police . along with the police . to cap it all , we now have a Minister warn that our investment security regime be out of date with the threat as we now understand they . I be very grateful to the right hon . gentleman for bring this debate before the House . I be here primarily to listen , rather than contribute , but it be overwhelmingly clear that the relatively new Investment Security Unit be tailor - make to consider a merger proposal such as this one . however , do the right hon . Gentleman realise that , if he get his wish and the Investment Security Unit do consider the merger proposal , the Intelligence and Security Committee would be block from scrutinise the work of that unit ? the Government originally say that all its work should have be oversee and scrutinise by what be the Business , Energy and Industrial Strategy Committee . the unit be now in the Cabinet Office , but even now , we be still not be allow to scrutinise it . there be something very strange , if not sinister , go on . we have demand the right to look at the classified element of that unit ' s work . finally , if the right hon . Gentleman be allow into a secure room to look at the documentation that will come before the Investment Security Unit , if it be ever allow to look at this deal , do he believe that his look at that documentation without clear staff , without be able to take note and without be able to go away and discuss it with anybody else — as we on the Intelligence and Security Committee can do under our special regime — would amount to effective scrutiny of something with such clear security implication ? I be very grateful to the Chair of the Intelligence and Security Committee for that intervention . as the Chair of the National Security and Investment Sub - Committee , I have to warn the House that I do not believe we have access to the information that would allow we to scrutinise government decision on investment security effectively . his Committee ' s report on China put it rather well : " the Government do not want there to be any meaningful scrutiny of sensitive investment deal " . it remind we : " effective parliamentary oversight be not some kind of ' optional extra ' — it be a vital safeguard in any functioning parliamentary democracy " . I wholeheartedly agree with the right hon . Gentleman and his Committee . we have not yet finish our scrutiny process for this year , but as it stand today , I can not give the House an assurance that we have in place an effective oversight and scrutiny regime for matter of significant consequence for the investment and economic security of our country . the reason this issue be significant be that the hon . member for Wealden and the right hon . member for Tonbridge and Malling ( Tom Tugendhat ) have both be ask whether the Vodafone - three merger will be assess under the National Security and Investment Act , and have not respond . the risk be that the Government be now keep more secret than the company involve . when the Minister who be set to wind up respond to the debate early in the year , he say : " I be sure that the question raise , which be legitimate one , will be properly take into account … if it trigger the process under the National Security and Investment Act . " — [ Official Report , 19 September 2023 ; Vol . 737 , c . 502WH . ] in the light of the warning the House have hear this afternoon , of what we now know about the CK group , of our ally update their security investment regime and of the Minister of State , Cabinet Office , the hon . member for Wealden tell we that she do not think the investment security process be fit for the threat we now face , it be incumbent on the Minister today to assure we that this deal be be call in for the hard of scrutiny by the Investment Scrutiny Unit in the Cabinet Office . as I understand it , the Act do allow the Minister to update the House on what he be do , and I call on he to provide we with the information that could put our mind to rest , if indeed the decision be not to block the deal , for which there be a good case . there be two further point : one be about competition and one be about investment . successive research that we on the Business and Trade Committee have see show that there be a material negative impact on competition when the number of mobile network operator go from four to three . there be disagreement in the evidence we take as a Committee , but particularly persuasive be the evidence from Professor Valletti , who be the former chief competition economist of the European Commission . he bluntly warn we : " I have study it , I have publish about it and I have find no evidence that tell we that by consolidate there be more investment . instead , I have find that every time there be a merger , price go up . " his research show that price decline slow in market with three mobile network operator compare with those with four . unite research confirm that price be 20 % high in european country with three rather than four network . the final point be about investment . we do not have enough investment in our mobile network infrastructure , which create big problem for our constituent . both Vodafone and Three have promise that this will lead to a surge of new investment . the challenge , I have to say , be that the investment be propose do not look materially big than the investment that three and Vodafone be each already propose . the risk be that this be fund through 1 , 000 to 1 , 600 job cut , which be the number of job cut that Unite the union have estimate . certainly , as Professor Valletti have find , there be not much evidence that consolidate network improve investment . the Deputy Prime Minister have call for evidence and thought about how the investment screening and security regime need to be update . this be an important debate about the economic security of our country in a very different world . we have hear enough about the risk that this new merger present . we have a black box , frankly , when it come to the process by which the Government judge these threat . I do not think that that be a satisfactory position for the House to be in . the House need some reassurance that this propose merger will get call in under the National Security and Investment Act for the hard possible scrutiny , and if there be any hint of a risk , let we be prudent and block the deal . it be a pleasure to be call in this debate . how pleased I be to follow the right hon . member for Birmingham , Hodge Hill ( Liam Byrne ) . I offer my belate congratulation on his appointment to the Business and Trade Committee and endorse his comment on the security nature of the potential effect on this country . however , my remark will be channel more to understand the potential effect of the merger on our constituent and consumer . I particularly thank which ? and other for provide insight to my contribution to this debate . will this merger be good or bad for all of our constituent ? that be the question to ask . it be very clear from the briefing that Vodafone and Three have offer that their core aim be to advance the roll - out of 5 g , or at least that be what they say . some of we in this House have be in two debate already this week about connectivity and the issue that we face across the United Kingdom , particularly in rural area . we be ask ourselves whether we should be allow the rigorous commercial pursuit of 5 g , when there be some people in the country who be lucky to have 3 g , let alone 4 g . should we be enable and allow enormous business that will become still large to have free licence to forget rural part of the country , in my case rural West Dorset ? there be such as a thing as the universal service obligation . it be mean to protect those who be in the bad possible situation with respect to connectivity . that , I be afraid to say , do not appear to be work , and we should ask ourselves why . increasingly , it be my opinion that we have a weak and ineffective regulator that be not protect the right of consumer and resident . I find it incredible , for example , that the Vodafone map say that certain parish and village be cover with a mobile signal , when in actual fact they be not , and Ofcom , the regulator , do nothing about it . because the map say that , it often obviate the need to provide connectivity for those people . I emphasise the point that this merger will give a third of the UK market to one firm . that be absolutely incredible in this day and age , when we be clearly move in a technological direction where new development and innovation be key . the use of mobile phone — Androids and so on — be increase , and the fact that we be , in effect , entrust a third of the nation ' s connectivity to one firm be questionable . we need to understand some of the experience that this nation have have so far with company such as Vodafone . it be relatively common knowledge that there be a big question about Vodafone ' s contribution — or , should I say , lack thereof — to the Exchequer . it pay , as far as I can see , no corporation tax for be a multibillion - pound organisation . in fairness , it will say that it invest a lot of money in infrastructure in the country , and I be not dispute that point . however , we should ask ourselves whether it be right to enable a business to enlarge still far when , I assume , it will continue to operate on the same guideline , under which it pay little , if any , corporation tax . we should not think that this be new . from my research , I find that this situation first arise in 2012 . this have already be go on for 11 year , and it be important that the House take these matter into consideration as part of this debate . the scale of investment that we have see so far , as far as I can see , be frankly a bit of a joke . the investment that I have be tell be forthcoming in my constituency be something that I just don ' t see . indeed , Vodafone itself have to apologise for basically mislead I and for guarantee that we would fix various connectivity issue in certain part of my constituency . it be a real concern to I that we be in this situation , particularly when I want to research this matter and it always refer to the currency in euro rather than in pound . I invite hon . member to look on the Vodafone website to research this and understand it . it really do give I cause for concern . I be listen to the hon . Gentleman ' s contribution with great interest . he make a point early about mislead information . the House have be tell that the primary function of this merger be to increase investment in infrastructure in the UK . do he agree that the primary function of this merger be pure profit — it be basically corporate greed ? I thank the hon . member for his kind intervention . he almost take the word out of my mouth , as I go on to the next part of my speech . the case that be be put , as I understand it from the brief receive from both Vodafone and Three , be that the merger will support increase amount of investment . they go on to say far that the merger will generate £ 700 million of saving . when we start to unpack it , what we be actually deal with here be massive job cut . we expect to see up to 1 , 600 people lose their job in the United Kingdom alone . the right hon . member for Birmingham , Hodge Hill mention that , but what he fail to include in his remark be that a programme of 11 , 000 job cut be already go on globally within Vodafone . while I be not the big advocate or supporter of Unite the union , I can well understand and agree with the point that the hon . member for Stockport ( Navendu Mishra ) make . I will progress my remark to talk about the effect on the consumer in respect of price and mobile phone bill . it be right that we consider what have happen in the past few year in Australia , where Vodafone have undertake a merger with TPG . the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission report show that australian price all rise and that investment fall . I understand that the rise in price be contest by some operator , but I could not find it contest that investment fall — and not just by a little bit , but by 45 % . that be a considerable amount , and it give I cause for concern when look at this situation . we have to ask ourselves : to what extent do we believe what we be be present with ? that give I even great concern when I consider the national security matter that the right hon . member for Birmingham , Hodge Hill raise . my constituency of West Dorset have 400 square mile and 132 parish , and we have ropey coverage , to say the least . I have have to look in the mirror and ask myself , " will this merger help the 82 , 000 constituent who depend on mobile connectivity increasingly every day ? " some 97 % of the business in West Dorset be small or micro - sized . they do not have enormous amount of cash to put in substantial investment , so that question be important . for I , give what I have see so far , it come down to a question of trust . that be why I have a slight problem with what be be present to we . Vodafone ' s coverage map for my constituency be wrong . I have contest it , and I have go to the regulator about it . Vodafone say that most part of rural West Dorset have a signal . I be sorry , but the place that it indicate do have signal do not . that show how weak the regulator Ofcom be in deal with this issue . it be allow operator to get away scot - free under the guise of a universal service obligation that be not deliver what be necessary for those people . we find it not just once or twice , but time and time again . I go to visit the small village of Stoke Abbott , which be on the outskirt of the beautiful town of Beaminster , early in the year . I be pleased — it be somewhat surprising , I think — to have secure a number of commitment to improve that village ' s appalling level of connectivity . regrettably , Vodafone have to correct itself , because it have mislead I . it would no long continue those improvement , and it go on to say that it believe that the problem would be solve by improve 4 g coverage . well , I be afraid that those improvement have not happen to date . as I say , this come down to trust . Vodafone do apologise for its somewhat disingenuous statement , but that show what we be deal with here , and it also expose the weakness of the regulator in address these issue in a meaningful way . give my personal experience of the organisation and how it treat my constituent , why would we want to afford it the ability to become large and more dominant in the market ? in my opinion , it have such a bad record of customer service to local people . I do not know if anyone else here have the joy of be a Vodafone customer , as I do . its customer service hotline be know as 191 . if I ring that number , it be virtually impossible to speak to someone to get help . many of my constituent have have the same experience . it be just incredible that , if they be fortunate enough to get through to someone who can help they , they be direct to what they call the director ' s office , which be just a shamble . it take month to resolve the slight difficulty . the situation that I outline early , whereby coverage be not as some say it be , be appalling . one of my fine constituent from Maiden Newton get in touch with I only a few day ago to share her experience . in fairness to Vodafone , she be a customer of Three , which , by and large , provide its customer with a reasonable service . my constituent put it well in her email : " how can we level up as a rural community when it ' s hard to tune in to digital radio or make a phone call ? as a small business owner I often have to do business on the move , but find I can ' t access anything as the signal be too poor . " she go on to say that , clearly , something have happen in the last six month . the network provider have tell she that work need to be do on a mast in the area , but that still have not be sort . these issue just go on and on . I be grateful to three and Vodafone for provide I with the briefing . I think it be reasonably interesting , but I be look for the word " customer " in there , and I could not see it once . if anybody else be able to find it , I will stand correct , and I may need to get my eye test again . that indicate to I the real drive behind the merger . the briefing that we have be provide with , for which I be grateful , show what this be about . the hon . Member and I be neighbour , and I congratulate he on talk about the rural character of his constituency and how the merger might affect his constituent as customer . I also suggest that it would affect his and all our constituent as citizen because , should the merger take place , it would make user of this phone service subject to China ' s national intelligence law , article 7 of which state : " any organization or citizen shall support , assist and cooperate with the state intelligence work " . that will be the obligation on CK Hutchison and its employee . do he agree ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his kind intervention . the right hon . member for Birmingham , Hodge Hill make a lot of those point , along with my right hon . friend the Member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) , and I agree with they early in my speech . this area need much great scrutiny . I remember not long after first come to this House a few year ago , we have considerable concern about the behaviour of company that be take place , or could take place , that would put our national security at risk . that be why I support the comment make early by both right hon . gentleman . on that point , I recall that in 2021 , while the National Security and Investment Bill be go through the House , the Government repeatedly say from the Dispatch Box that in any conflict between economic interest and national security their policy be that national security would come first . that be the whole point of bring in the legislation . now it appear that there be even a question mark on whether the structure set up in the legislation will examine this propose questionable deal , let alone allow it to be effectively scrutinise by Parliament once they have do that examination . I thank my right hon . friend for his intervention . he make a very valid point . I recall the debate we have in the House several year ago and I think they be very meaningful . I hope that my right hon . friend the Minister will respond to some of the genuine concern that a number of we in this House have . in its first line , the Vodafone and three brief state that the current UK telecom market — their own industry — be dysfunctional , and that consolidation be need to remedy that . I regret to say to the House that , have go through that and some of the excellent briefing receive from other organisation , I be not convince that the merger be the right thing to do . a number of point have be make on national security , competition and the consumer that indicate to I that it be not necessarily in the interest of the country or the consumer . the brief confirm that , talk about billion of pound — or euro , on the website — which appear to be the only thing they be interested in . it be of huge concern to I that we be go from four operator to three , give the situation we face . I hope my right hon . friend the Minister will consider what action to take so that the regulator not only have proper tooth to sort out the issue I have mention but that in any future decision genuine consideration be give to whether a potential merger be in the interest of the country and our constituent . I be afraid that at the moment I be not convinced that it be the right thing to do . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , in particular my membership of Unite the union . I be grateful to Unite for provide a detailed briefing on the merger . it have be campaign on the issue for a long time , because , as both member — my right hon . friend the Member for Birmingham , Hodge Hill ( Liam Byrne ) and the hon . member for West Dorset ( Chris Loder ) — who have contribute so far mention , almost 1 , 600 job could be lose . I thank my right hon . friend the Member for Birmingham , Hodge Hill for secure the debate . he have do a lot of work in the background , include as Chair of the Business and Trade Committee . there be two key point I want to cover . first , the merger be bad news for customer . there be 650 constituency represent in this House and I believe this merger impact every single one . if the merger go through it will mean high cost for consumer . currently more than 2 . 2 million household in the UK be struggle with the cost of mobile service , so it be not as if they be in a good position to start with . the merger will reduce competition and increase monopoly and pricing power for these operator . I want to say a little about Greater Manchester , because that be the part of the world that I represent in the House . a Liverpool University study find in 2020 that as many as 1 . 2 million resident of Greater Manchester alone face some form of digital exclusion , while the Office for National Statistics have find that 40 % of Greater Manchester benefit claimant have very low digital engagement and 23 % of resident be not use digital service because of lack of money . this merger will increase price and dramatically worsen the situation . the hon . member for West Dorset talk about his patch . he represent a rural part of England , while my constituency be more urban , but there will be people in each and every constituency who be digitally exclude , in many case because of a lack of financial resource . my right hon . friend the Member for Birmingham , Hodge Hill mention the research conduct by the former chief competition economist at the European Commission . accord to that research , we can expect an average increase of about £ 300 in mobile phone bill . reference have be make to Vodafone ' s customer service . I be not a three customer , so I do not know what its customer service be like , but we be look at nearly 1 , 600 job loss . give the cost of living crisis , not only be the merger terrible news for UK customer , but the livelihood of the people who work in these business be on the line . I will not repeat many of the point that have already be make about national security , but we should be clear about the fact that Three be own by the Hong Kong - base CK group . if the merger go through , the new entity will have access to the datum of 27 million UK national , as well as highly classified datum under Vodafone ' s exist contract with , for instance , the national health service , the Ministry of Defence , the Ministry of Justice , and several police force . I have be campaign on this issue for a long time , and be lucky enough to secure a Westminster Hall debate on it early in the year . in July , follow my campaign to stop the merger , I write to the chief constable of my local force , Greater Manchester police , about its contract with Vodafone . I receive a speedy response , and I be grateful to the chief constable , Mr Watson , and to the force . the chief constable tell I that under section 17 of the Local Government Act 1988 , force be not permit to take non - commercial consideration into account when award contract . the exclusion set out in subsection ( 5 ) be wide - range , and without intervention from the Secretary of State on specific issue , public body must adhere to the rule set out in the Act . I be quite concerned about the fact that my local police force have a contract with Vodafone , as have several other force in England . the issue of the datum transmit through Vodafone from those police force , as well as the NHS , the Ministry of Defence , the Ministry of Justice and other public body be a very serious matter . I could go on and on about CK group ' s close personal link with the chinese state and the Beijing - support Hong Kong Government , but I will not go through they again . the Chair of the Intelligence and Security Committee , the right hon . member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) , make this point early , but I would like to reiterate that no parliamentary scrutiny of the security approval process be under way . the Government be think to be assess the merger under the National Security and Investment Act 2021 , but have refuse to inform Parliament about the process or how they will make their decision . I be tell that the Prime Minister and senior Ministers have hold closed - door meeting with CK group executive in the last 12 month . I think right hon . Gentleman use the word " sinister " , and I agree with he : I too think that there be something quite sinister go on . the Government be not be upfront . while I be quote what have be say by early speaker , let I quote the hon . member for West Dorset , who observe that the regulator be weak . I agree with he entirely , but I also think that the Government be weak . the Government should get a grip on the situation , because it be terrible news not only for people in each and every constituency but for the nation . this merger would result in chinese state interference in the UK , and it would give the CK group access to sensitive national Government , local government and public body contract . the merger be not worth the risk . my understanding be that there be no evidence that this merger would increase investment . we have already hear about grey spot and area with no 5 g , 4 g , 3 g or even simple mobile coverage at all , so we need to ensure that Parliament give proper scrutiny . this merger be bad news for british customer and bad news for Britain , but I fear the Government be , yet again , asleep at the wheel on another crucial issue . I call the SNP spokesman . I congratulate the right hon . member for Birmingham , Hodge Hill ( Liam Byrne ) on secure this important debate , which I be glad the Backbench Business Committee have grant . the SNP have concern on a few front . I will not repeat the stat , but I almost entirely agree with what he say . I thank Unite for its work and for its briefing . there be various issue with the merger , particularly relate to consumer and security . we be pleased when , back in June or July , the Minister talk about regulatory hurdle that have to be clear for this merger to take place , but those regulatory hurdle be not sufficient . it should not and can not be a rubber - stamp exercise , so the comment we have hear about parliamentary scrutiny be very important . the right hon . member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) have make I even more concerned about the possible lack of scrutiny . we be , after all , a parliamentary democracy , so we should be scrutinise the merger . those member who have the access and the ability to scrutinise the merger , with the assistance of confidential document , should be do this , because the merger clearly have a significant impact on national security . the Government publish their annual resilience report just a few week ago , and people need to be able to communicate with one another . consumer datum be important , and it be likely that a chinese company will have access to 27 million people ' s data , which be pretty terrifying , but it will also have access to mobile mast . the new mobile mast that be be put up as part of the share rural network will be own or be own by a number of different company , one of which would be this three / Vodafone conglomerate . if it happen , the conglomerate would have roughly a third of each mast , which will cover a huge swathe of these island . if there be any sort of attack on the mast , large chunk of the population would not be able to access 4 g . the same issue apply to datum security . what datum be associate with this critical infrastructure , and what change would be cause by this possible merger ? there be a couple of other reason for concern . the risk of job loss be incredibly important ; it be not of secondary importance . we be in a cost of living crisis , and have more job at threat when people be already stretch , already struggle , be pretty concerning as it put they in an even bad position . the hon . member for Stockport ( Navendu Mishra ) talk about his local police force ' s Vodafone contract . the Procurement Act 2023 have security provision that mean the Secretary of State be able to proscribe company that have significant issue . however , give the amount of trouble we have get the Government to do anything about Huawei , in relation to 5 g , and Hikvision , in relation to CCTV camera , I have no faith that the power in the new Procurement Act could or would be use , and certainly not with any speed . we do not want to end up with these decision make and the merger approve in some way , only for the Government to decide to backtrack on it . that would be even bad than if they decide to say no at an early point . I do not want we to end up realise that the risk have be create and that we need to try to sort the mess out . none of we want to be in that position . I be not say that the deal be terrible and should never go ahead . what I be say , for all those reason , be that there should be proper scrutiny , because there be significant concern about China ' s potential interference in critical national infrastructure . on the consumer issue , the fact that price be 20 % high in those european market with only three major mobile phone company instead of four be especially concern , give the cost of living crisis , as the hon . member for Stockport make clear . this deal should be properly scrutinise in order to well serve the public and our national security , and to protect our critical national infrastructure into the future . I call the shadow Minister . I thank the Backbench Business Committee for grant time for this debate . in particular , I pay tribute to my right hon . friend the Member for Birmingham , Hodge Hill ( Liam Byrne ) for raise this issue and for his work as the new Chair of the Business and Trade Committee . I want to add my congratulation to he , however belatedly , on his appointment . he give a comprehensive outline of the security implication of the propose merger . we have a comprehensive intervention from the right hon . member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) , my fellow Welshman . whenever he speak , we should all listen . he speak with some authority , as both the Chair of the Intelligence and Security Committee and a distinguished former Chair of the Defence Committee . the hon . member for West Dorset ( Chris Loder ) raise some important point about rural broadband connectivity and his frustration with company and the regulator , which many of we share . my hon . friend the Member for Stockport ( Navendu Mishra ) , mention some quite shocking statistic . some 2 . 2 million household be struggle with mobile coverage , while in Greater Manchester — which he represent and speak so passionately about — 1 . 2 million people be face digital exclusion , which be something we should all be concern about . there can be no doubt that the propose merger between three and Vodafone be not without controversy , as we have hear . we be often quite rightly chide when we throw barb at each other in this House . often , the House be at its very well when we be allow to develop our argument and when we listen in a spirit of respect for one another , as we have this afternoon , not just in this debate but in the previous debate . even though I only agree to step in for my hon . friend the Member for Rhondda ( Sir Chris Bryant ) on Monday , my office have be absolutely inundate by those on both side of the argument . there be those who believe that the merger will allow for more effective competition , while other , such as Unite — which my hon . friend the Member for Stockport mention , and which have put a huge effort into the campaign — believe that it will raise price to the detriment of consumer and result in job cut across the board . it be my understanding that the Competition and Markets Authority be investigate , and the call for view on the merger end on 1 November . I have listen to the debate closely , and it seem to I that the potential merger rest on two central question . first , will consumer and the industry benefit from it ? secondly , who have access to the UK ' s mobile network ? let I turn to the first question . the merger will shrink the market , result in only three major competitor instead of the present four . the new company would be the large in the market , boast over 27 million customer . this come against the backdrop of tariff increase this year . O2 have increase price by 17 . 3 % , while ee , Vodafone , three and BT Mobile have increase price by 14 . 4 % . it be not just on contract that customer be lose out ; people who use their phone infrequently be get less value for their money . Ofcom have also state that the year - on - year real - term increase in pay - monthly , SIM - only contract be 13 % . a smartphone be no long a luxury , but an essential piece of everyday life . it be not something that we as a society can allow people to be price out of have . child be teach on smartphone . interview take place over the phone . emergency service be call on smartphone . if three and Vodafone merge and continue their respective trend of increase price over inflation , that could price many out of the necessity of have a phone . from an industry perspective , Unite the union estimate the merger will cause 1 , 000 to 1 , 600 job cut . Vodafone be also in the process of cut 11 , 000 job globally and have acknowledge that the propose merger would see duplication with head office job . both company claim that there be more competition in the market than it first appear . although there be only four mobile network provider , there be numerous mobile virtual network operator , such as Giffgaff , that can buy access to the infrastructure of the big four at incredibly competitive rate to offer competitive pricing . the mobile virtual network operator believe that a third big player in the market would be well for competition . furthermore , three and Vodafone claim that the merger be necessary to invest in 5 g , aim for an £ 11 billion investment over a decade . while the investment target seem positive , it remain largely uncertain . past merger in other market have not always result in increase investment . notably , the European Union ' s competition directorate block CK Hutchison ' s attempt to acquire O2 from Telef ó nica in 2016 . competition involve more than just three player vie for business . the policy of local coverage often limit consumer choice . with few player in the market , pricing decision might prioritise company profit over consumer value . the hon . Gentleman mention the necessity of mobile phone for life . when interact with Government service , for example go through the Jobcentre system , people have to be able to access the internet , although many of they be earn very little or nothing . do he share my concern that the reduction in the number of company in the market will hit hard those people who be least able to afford it ? I absolutely agree . at the start of my speech , I allude to what my hon . friend the Member for Stockport say about 1 . 2 million people in Greater Manchester be digitally exclude . we do not know the figure nationwide , but that be a serious worry to I and something we have to bear in mind when we talk about such merger . I will develop that argument far when I sum up . with few major player in the market , pricing decision might prioritise company profit over consumer value . I hope the issue raise will be thoroughly examine by the CMA in its investigation . let I turn to the second key question , about access to the UK mobile network . it be important that the Government safeguard national and personal datum if the merger move forward . recently , Vodafone secure a contract to provide video conferencing and recording service at UK military court . if the merger proceed , Three would then hold they as well . that become significant when we learn that CK Hutchison Holdings , the owner of Three , be a conglomerate base in Hong Kong and register in the Cayman Islands , establish in 2015 , as mention by my right hon . friend the Member for Birmingham , Hodge Hill . at this early stage , it be only right to ask , in light of national security concern that have be raise in this House and elsewhere , whether any assessment have be make of CK Hutchinson ' s connection with the chinese state . if so , do the merger pose any risk to individual security or that of the nation ? would the merger involve exclude Government contract from the merger to ensure data security ? these be crucial point that demand careful consideration and a robust plan to protect sensitive datum and national interest . be the economic security sub - committee of the National Security Council look at the merger ? as this decision be a matter of national security , will Parliament have an active role in this decision - make process ? before the Minister respond , I draw his attention to a report of the Intelligence and Security Committee . the Chair of the Committee , the right hon . member for New Forest East , will correct I if I be wrong , but it say : " effective parliamentary oversight be not some kind of ' optional extra ' – it be a vital safeguard in any functioning parliamentary democracy " . therefore , I hope the Minister will assure we that Parliament will be engage and inform throughout the significant decision - make process . that be a hugely important point — I can not emphasise that enough — give the potential national security risk if the large mobile network in the UK be significantly control by a foreign company . ultimately , the decision on security issue rest with the Investment Security Unit in the Cabinet Office , with final approval rest with the Prime Minister . I hope the Prime Minister will consider the sensitive material involve in the merger include , but not limit to , the datum from 27 million customer , along with contract for the NHS , the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Defence . whether the merger go ahead remain to be see , but many question have yet to be address . in wind up , will the Minister shed some light on the vital issue raise today in this vital debate ? I congratulate the right hon . member for Birmingham , Hodge Hill ( Liam Byrne ) both on his appointment as Chair of the Business and Trade Committee and on bring this issue to the House today . there be no question but that the issue under debate today be very important . the outcome of the possible merger will have implication for thousand of consumer across the country , and the right hon . Gentleman raise perfectly valid question . to some extent , this debate be something of a reprise of the one initiate by the hon . member for Stockport ( Navendu Mishra ) in Westminster Hall last September . I be afraid that I be likely to disappoint the right hon . Gentleman , because I be not able to add very much on the process to what I say back in September . he will be aware that we have a long - stand and robust system for look at the competition aspect of merger and acquisition . as that be conduct independently of Government , it have always be the case that minister do not comment on the competition aspect , but rather leave it for the regulatory body — in this case the Competition and Markets Authority — to make recommendation . minister will then reach a decision once that process have be complete . on the national security implication , we also have an extremely robust system in place , but it have always be the case that the Government do not talk about whether inquiry be take place . all I can tell the right hon . Gentleman be that , like all other national security matter , we do take telecom security extremely seriously . I be grateful to the Minister for give way . thing have move on since the debate sponsor by my hon . friend the Member for Stockport ( Navendu Mishra ) . on Tuesday , the Minister ' s colleague , the Minister for Industry and Economic Security , the hon . member for Wealden ( Ms Ghani ) , tell my Committee that she think that the investment security regime be not fit to match the threat that we now see . give that the Deputy Prime Minister have say that there need to be an overhaul of the investment security regime — he be call for that evidence — and give that the Minister responsible have say that she do not think the regime be currently fit for the threat that we now face , it be essential that the Minister today be able to give we some reassurance that the question arise from this merger will be address by the Investment Security Unit , not least because Parliament have very limited oversight of the decision that Government will arrive at . the overall question of the efficacy of the investment security process be for the Cabinet Office . the right hon . Gentleman may well wish to pursue his inquiry with the Minister responsible . I have no doubt that my right hon . friend , who chair the Intelligence and Security Committee , will also have view about the process that the Government have put in place . all I can say to both Select Committee Chairs be that , in relation to this specific merger , we can not comment on whether it be currently undergo scrutiny through that process , but we believe that the process that be available for the examination of merger of this kind on national security ground be robust . beyond that , I can not really go . I be not ask my right hon . friend to say whether this particular proposed merger be be investigate . what I be ask he to say be whether the Government accept that there be a significant national security dimension to any proposal for a merger involve a major shareholding by a chinese subservient company . I hope that my right hon . friend will forgive I ; I be not sure that I can even go so far as to say that . it be on the record that the Government believe that foreign ownership of major critical infrastructure raise security concern , which be precisely why the process be put in place and the Investment Security Unit be set up . we believe that we now have the ability to determine whether there be serious national security concern , and if it be determined that there be , power be available to the Government to take action to protect our national security . I think the answer be yes , but I do not want to be draw into particular country or company . if he will forgive I , I will leave it at that . several Members raise wide question . my hon . friend the Member for West Dorset ( Chris Loder ) be right that we need to look at the context in which the merger be possibly be consider . his test of whether it be good for his constituent be a perfectly valid one . as he observe , this be the third time we have debate connectivity in 24 hour . that be a measure of how important it be to people . it be the Government ' s very firm view that the roll - out of 5 g connectivity have huge potential for such thing as public service , industry , transport and education . there will be enormous benefit to obtain the widespread adoption of 5 g — benefit that might amount to £ 159 billion by 2035 . that be why the Prime Minister ' s commitment to the UK become a science and technology superpower will deliver benefit for everybody in this country . connectivity , and the availability of mobile telephony , lie at the heart of that . we be already begin to see benefit from 5 g , but the Government be clear that we wish to move beyond the current basic , or non - stand - alone 5 g , towards stand - alone 5 g . considerable investment be take place : something like nearly £ 2 billion be be invest by the mobile operator in enhance and improve their network , and 5 g be now available from at least one operator outside 85 % of premise . I understand the Minister ' s point about 85 % 5 g coverage , but what be the Government do about the million of people in poverty who can not access 5 g , 4 g , 3 g , or even simple broadband ? do he believe that the merger will mean low price for british consumer ? I will come on to digital exclusion , which the hon . Member have rightly focus on as a major issue face the country . leave aside whether the merger be a good idea , that be a challenge that we be determined to address . we believe that very good progress be be make on coverage . as I think be express in both debate yesterday — certainly my hon . friend the Member for West Dorset have raise this several time — the figure that we be give on the success of extend coverage do not always match the experience of the people live in those location . coverage prediction be make as a result of computer programme simulate the way mobile signal travel , and signal can be block by obstruction . for that reason , sometimes the figure be not as good , which concern we . that be why we say in the wireless infrastructure strategy that Ofcom need to improve the accuracy of its reporting on mobile coverage and network performance . we will pursue that actively with Ofcom . I think my right hon . friend be agree that some of Ofcom ' s assumption on coverage be a little questionable . give that the universal service obligation be base on those assumption , can he help we to push hard to get that resolve ? it be negatively affect so many people in rural area , who be be tell on a map that they be get a reasonably good signal , but in reality be not . Ofcom team go out and test the prediction that be make about the extent of coverage . they do not just accept what the computer tell they ; they visit various location . however , Ofcom need to do more . although I be not go to be in this post for more than another few day , I do have a meeting with Ofcom before I hand back the baton to my colleague and hon . friend the Member for Hornchurch and Upminster ( Julia Lopez ) . the issue be already on my list to raise with Ofcom , and I will draw the chief executive ' s attention to the point my hon . friend make . as I have say , we have set out our ambition to achieve stand - alone 5 g across all populated area by 2030 . we believe that that will bring real benefit to the United Kingdom , but it require billion of pound of investment , which have to come from the commercial sector . therefore , we have also set out a suite of measure to try to help operator to deliver that ambition . we also have a 10 - point plan for rural connectivity , and I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Barrow and Furness ( Simon Fell ) , who have work very hard as the rural connectivity champion . this debate have focus on security , and that be obviously a key factor that we need to take into account . the Government absolutely recognise the importance of have secure and resilient digital infrastructure . however , as I have already indicate , we think that thank to recent legislation the UK now have one of the strong telecom security regime in the world . the Government have use the power of the Telecommunications ( Security ) Act 2021 to set out clear timetable for the removal of Huawei from our 5 g network by the end of 2027 . the Act have also establish a new cyber - security framework to improve the security and resilience of public telecom network and service , which be now in force . follow the Government ' s decision to remove Huawei from UK 5 g network , couple with the need to mitigate the risk of long - term consolidation in the telecom equipment market , our 5 g supply chain diversification strategy set out a plan to ensure that the UK have a healthy and competitive telecom supply chain market . that plan be back by the £ 250 million open network R & D fund , which will accelerate the adoption of open radio access network technology . that will help to bring more supplier into the market and to diversify , make it easy to reduce our dependency . however , I assure the right hon . member for Birmingham , Hodge Hill that we be committed to protect our network , shield our critical national infrastructure and understand how new network be design , build and manage securely . the possible merger deal between Vodafone and Three , as I have say , be subject to regulatory approval to assess the risk to national security , competition and consumer in the way that all merger of its kind would be . while we of course welcome investment where they support growth and job , the security of our critical infrastructure be also of prime importance . however , I be not able to go far than I have already do in answer the right hon . Gentleman ' s question about precisely the process by which that be measure . these be other aspect to the merger . the hon . member for Stockport , I think , raise the possibility of price increase , and hon . member have comment on the consequence of a merger , also involve Vodafone , that take place in Australia . the only thing I would say be that every market be different , and therefore what happen in Australia can not be use to draw any conclusion about what might happen here — although , accord to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission ' s late report , in fact mobile service price have stay pretty much unchanged between 2020 and 2022 . affordability , which be raise by the hon . member for Stockport and other , be something that we take seriously . he be right that the possession of a mobile phone be become an essential of life that , during a cost of living crisis , people may find it difficult to afford , but I recognise the effort that have be make by mobile operator , include three and Vodafone , to support customer by bring forward social tariff for those on low income , as well as by donate million of gigabit of datum , and provide device , to the National Databank . there be currently 27 provider of social tariff , and million of household across the UK be eligible . I have express concern in the past about the low take - up of social tariff , but I be pleased to say that it be now increase , although there be still further work to do in bring the possibility of a social tariff to the attention of people who may find a mobile phone difficult to afford . mobile price in the UK be among the low compare with country such as Italy , Germany , Spain , France and the United States . on the topic of social tariff , I agree that low take - up be still a concern . when I visit my local jobcentre , I ask the staff there to ensure that they inform the people who come through the door about social tariff . will the Minister join I in encourage mps around the House to urge those work in customer - face role with people who be struggle financially to talk about mobile social tariff ? I be very happy to join the hon . Lady in call for that . I recently meet my ministerial colleague at the Department for Work and Pensions to discuss what more we can do to ensure that benefit claimant be aware of the possibility of go on to social tariff . I be afraid that I can not say any more about the detail of the propose merger , other than that we have well - establish and robust process in place for the consideration of both the impact on competition in the market and any possible national security concern . I be confident that those process will be follow , if necessary , in this case . with the leave of the House , I call Liam Byrne to wind up . this have be an extremely useful debate . let I conclude it by offer my thank and congratulation to my hon . friend the Member for Stockport ( Navendu Mishra ) on lead this campaign so vigorously . my thank go to unite the union for inform the House with such important research on the question of national security . unfortunately , I fear that the debate have raise more question than it have answer . it be a matter of concern that the Minister can not tell we how the principle of defend our national security against bad investment apply to one specific case . this be a test case for whether our investment security regime be fit for the threat that we now face . we have hear two Select Committee chair tell the House that we , as parliamentarian , can not assure the House that we can come to a judgment about whether the Government be make good or bad decision . that be not a happy place for Parliament to be in . I be shocked that the Minister can not tell we that a chinese - subservient company be in any way block from acquire access to the datum on 27 million citizen in this country . that be a pretty poor state of affair . I hope that this may be the first of a few debate to come , but I pray that the Government quickly come to some new decision about how this investment security regime operate in the future . we do not have a small yard and a high fence ; right now , it seem that our security regime be a big garden and a low fence . I be afraid that in the world we live in , that be not good enough . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider the potential merger of Three and Vodafone . serious Violence : Battersea Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Mike Wood . ) I start by welcome the Minister to his new post , although it be deeply worry that his former role of Minister of State for Disabled People , Health and Work have be scrap . there be no doubt that cut to police and public service be directly link to the rise in serious violence in the country . I have call for this debate as meaningful action be need to tackle the epidemic of serious violence that we be see . it be no exaggeration to say that this be a national crisis — one that have be exacerbate by successive conservative government . for I , it be an absolute honour to represent Battersea , as it be a great place to live , work and visit . sadly , however , over the past three month there have be three incident of serious violence , two of which have result in fatality . we have see at first hand how serious violence can destroy life , bring devastation to family and impact on the wide community ' s sense of safety and security . there be no word to describe how difficult it be when I visit family who have lose love one to violent crime . it be heartbreaking to hear their feeling of helplessness and despair . every incident should strengthen our determination to build a safe society for everyone . the Tories like to talk tough on crime , but it be all word and very little action . the data tell a devastating story about their record on crime and justice , which be one of damage decline and collapse confidence . nationally , serious violence be up by 60 % since 2015 , with knife crime , gun crime and robbery all increase . Knife crime be up by 74 % , with over 50 , 000 incident last year alone and the high number of fatality in a year for 70 year . most scandalously , it be young people who be most affected . last year , the big increase in knife - relate fatality be among young boy age 16 and 17 . during 2021 - 22 , a record number of child be victim of crime . the criminal justice system be on its knee , with a backlog of 65 , 000 case in the criminal court . it be therefore no wonder that out of almost 28 , 000 knife possession offence record over the past year , only four in 10 lead to any formal sanction . why be the Government fail so badly to prosecute knife offence ? these damn statistic be the result of more than a decade of austerity , cut to public service and cut around 20 , 000 police officer . this year , Baroness Casey ' s review of the Met state that it " have be disfigure by austerity " and that the number of police community support officer have be drastically reduce , lead to the collapse in neighbourhood policing . after initially benefit from a record of investment in police under the last Labour Government , violent crime start to rise in London on Boris Johnson ' s watch in 2014 . he oversee policy that lead to police officer number fall to record low and 9 , 000 police staff lose their job , include 72 % of community support officer . over 70 police station close , include Battersea police station in 2013 . obviously , the cut have have a huge impact on police . emergency call be not always respond to within the national target time , force the local Met to make change to its emergency response . while police number in London be now increase , the Casey review highlight the inexperience of new officer . by make cut to policing , not only do we lose police officer ; crucially , we lose experience . although we now have a record number of police officer in London , with more than 9 , 000 officer recruit in the last three year alone , we need more . the Met commissioner , Mark Rowley , believe that 6 , 000 more officer be need , yet the Government provide funding for only 4 , 500 . why will the Government not provide more officer in London ? when it come to youth service , nearly £ 1 billion of funding have be cut . in London , spending fall by 59 % in real term compare with the period between 2011 and 2022 . do the hon . Member agree that it be shameful that Sadiq Khan , as Labour Mayor of London and the police and crime commissioner for London , be the only pcc in the country who fail to use all the available Government funding , which cost London more than 1 , 000 police officer ? I would like to thank the hon . member for his intervention , but obviously I do not . I be proud of what the Mayor of London , Sadiq Khan , have be do to plug the gap cause by the Government ' s failure and their cut to police service in London . with little or no formal youth service provide by local authority , it have be leave to fantastic organisation in Battersea include Elays , FAST , Devas , Providence House , Caius House , Carney ' s and many other to deliver for young people . we know that nearly £ 1 billion have be cut from youth service . it be vital that those service be provide with funding . some young people face unprecedented threat from the influence of county line gang , damage social medium content and issue cause by the pandemic . accord to the think - tank Crest , more than 200 , 000 child be vulnerable to serious violence . datum also show that a record number of young people be seek mental health support from the NHS . it must be a national mission to tackle serious violence and divert young people away from violence and crime . after 13 year , the Government have offer nothing substantial to address the epidemic of serious violence . their serious violence strategy be last update five year ago . what happen to the taskforce ? it have be disband . I be proud that Labour have commit to a series of reform to increase the proportion of violent crime be charge , to rebuild public confidence in police and to restore the rule of law . labour will invest in neighbourhood policing , put 13 , 000 more police officer and police community support officer on our street and introduce a new community police guarantee to make Britain ' s street safe . in local government , Labour have demonstrate the positive impact that can happen through sustained investment and action . the Mayor of London have plug the funding hole create by the Tories with investment of £ 1 billion in policing . that will lead to an additional 1 , 300 officer on our street and 500 police community support officer . in 2022 , the number of murder in London be the low since 2014 , and teenage murder reduce by 50 % . I firmly believe that tough criminal justice measure alone will not solve the problem of serious violence in our community . we also need to have a laser - like focus on prevention . for too long , the Government have write off young people , who have be push around by Government Departments , local authority , mental health service and the police . there need to be a holistic and joined - up approach . that model have already be pioneer by — yes — the Mayor of London . his violence reduction unit focus on prevention and early intervention to help divert vulnerable young people in London away from violence and towards positive activity , opportunity and employment . More than 150 , 000 young people have be support since the VRU be set up , which have result in a 25 % reduction in homicide , a 15 % fall in knife crime injury among the under - 25s , and a 26 % reduction in robbery . the VRU show how investment in prevention can lead to positive outcome . alongside investment in youth service , we need to ensure that there be a community - base , localise , tailored support service to address the emotional and psychological need of those directly and indirectly affect by serious violence . follow incident in Battersea , Wandsworth Borough Council have commission a bereavement service to provide a 12 - month pilot project , provide support to those bereave due to violent crime , as well as incident and trauma counselling to those who have be victim of , or have witness , serious violence . it have also set up community - base support group in area where critical incident have take place . while we be talk about serious violence , I want to touch briefly on violence against woman and girl , follow the tragic murder of Sarah Everard in south London and of many other woman over the past few year . in Battersea , I have launch a safe space initiative , work with the police and local business to ensure woman and girl can always feel safe on our local street , wherever they be and whatever the time be . in closing , I ask the Minister what action the Government be take to tackle serious violence . if they be really commit to tackle this issue , why have they not update their serious violence strategy for five year ? do they ever plan to do so ? how be the Government plug the gap in police funding and provide the investment need in London to deliver more officer to help deliver a safe city for everyone , as the commissioner have call for ? where be the investment in prevention and youth service to stop the criminal exploitation of our child and young people ? will the Minister back Labour ' s plan to introduce a new definition and specific offence of criminal child exploitation ? why will the Government not back our plan to put a mental health support worker into every school and youth worker into our accident and emergency hospital to prevent people from become involve in gang ? what investment be the Government make in community - base , localise , tailor support service to address the emotional and psychological need of those directly and indirectly affect by serious violence ? increase investment and resource will be an investment in our young people , but also in their future . it be time for the Government to act , but if they can not deliver the change that our country so desperately need , they really should get out of the way and let Labour get on with fix the mess they have create . if they do not act now , then when ? how many more life must be destroy by serious violence before this Government act ? I be , of course , grateful to the hon . member for Battersea ( Marsha De Cordova ) for secure this debate , and for the opportunity to respond to it . may I first deal with the point that be raise at the outset of the debate ? I wish my hon . friend the Member for Mid Sussex ( Mims Davies ) all the very good as she assume her responsibility as the Minister for disabled people within Government . have work with she in the Department for Work and Pensions , I believe she will take on those important responsibility with real vigour and do justice to they . it be an enormous privilege to serve as the Minister for disabled people over the course of the past 14 month . I be enormously grateful to all those I work with — disabled people , disabled people ' s organisation and the various charity — along with the many disabled people I meet over the length and breadth of Britain , who make that an unforgettable time in ministerial office . I be proud of the work we do , and I know that my hon . friend will continue that work over the come week and month . I wish she well . to return to the substance of today ' s debate , the hon . member for Battersea have speak powerfully and passionately about the impact of serious violence in her constituency . I realise that this debate have have more of a local dimension , but I think it be worth reflect on the national picture for a moment . serious violence cause significant distress and harm whenever it occur , and the Government be absolutely committed to tackle it . I think that all of we in this House can agree , whatever our political affiliation , that we want our community to both feel safe and be safe wherever people live , and the senseless loss of life that she have describe be a tragedy in every sense of the word . I say that as a former victim Minister who have meet family who have lose love one in the most horrendous of circumstance . I do not think there be any politician on any side of british politic who be not move by those story and do not want to take action to prevent other family from experience the unimaginable loss and trauma that they have experience when love one be take in such horrific circumstance . that be why we have deploy a twin - track approach , combine tough enforcement with intervention to prevent people , especially young people , from be draw into violent crime , and that work be deliver strong result . the late crime statistic show that homicide fall by 10 % compare with the last year , and be 15 % low than the year end December 2019 . violence against the person offence fall by 1 % compare with the previous year , and by 19 % compare with March 2020 . More than 120 , 000 weapon have be remove from Britain ' s street since 2019 through a range of tactic , with almost half seize through stop and search . again , I be sure all member of this House would want to thank the many organisation across the country involve in facilitate the work of get those dangerous weapon off our street and help to keep people safe . through the work of violence reduction unit and the Grip hotspot police programme , we have prevent 136 , 000 violence without injury offence , as attest by an independent evaluation of the two programme . of course , we have recruit an additional 20 , 000 officer across England and Wales . we be make progress , but there be more to do . this threat be too serious and , in the bad case , deadly for we to be anything other than relentless in our approach . do the Minister agree with I and with Baroness Casey who say that this be also about the experience that have be lose ? yes , there be now the recruitment of more officer , but that experience have go since the Government choose to cut 20 , 000 officer over the past decade . I hear the point that the hon . Lady make . I think that the commitment to deliver the 20 , 000 additional police officer be the right commitment to make . I well recall debate , which may have be before her time in the House , when I be on the Back Benches and those on the Labour Front Bench be argue for we to cut funding for police . I do not support that approach at the time , and I can only imagine where we would have be have we take that advice . instead , this Government have go in the opposite direction , and we have increase police number by 20 , 000 , exactly as we commit , and I believe that it be make a difference on our street . of course , draw on the experience of officer who have serve in police role for a long period be invaluable to train the next generation of officer , and that be precisely an endeavour on which we be focus . we be determined to go far , which be why , early this year , we run a public consultation detail five proposal to tackle knife crime , and all of they will be take forward in the most suitable way when parliamentary time allow . we will introduce via secondary legislation a ban on certain type of large knife that seem to appeal to those who want to use these item as weapon — for instance , zombie - style knife or machete . in the Criminal Justice Bill , we have introduce provision that will give the police more power to seize dangerous weapon , create a new offence of possession of a bladed weapon with an intent to harm and increase sentence for those who import , manufacture or sell dangerous weapon to under - 18 . I turn to some of the specific area touch on in the hon . Lady ' s remark . we have listen to officer on the frontline to understand the problem they face day in and day out , and we have work in collaboration with the National Police Chiefs ' Council to develop a ban on the machete and large knife that be become more prevalent in serious crime . the ban focus on feature that be commonly find in the type of knife be use in serious violence and serious crime . since we launch our consultation on measure to tackle knife crime there have be an interest in extend the ban to include sword , and I understand the reason why . however , during our conversation with the police , sword be not raise as a specific concern . the police tell we that the great risk at the moment be the criminal use of zombie - style knife and machete , so we agree to focus on specific feature commonly find on the knife and machete increasingly be use on our street in incident of serious violence . we will , however , keep that under review . we be clear that it be illegal to sell knife to a person age under 18 , and that apply to face - to - face or online sale . the Offensive Weapons Act 2019 stop knife be send to residential address after they be buy online , unless arrangement be in place to ensure that the item will not be deliver into the hand of someone who be under 18 . we want strong deterrence to the sale of prohibit weapon , and of any knife to those under 18 . that be why we be increase the maximum penalty for the offence of sell knife to someone under the age of 18 , whether online or face to face , from six month to two year . that change will reflect the severity of the offence itself , and will be bring forward as soon as possible . one of the most powerful preventive measure we have be get dangerous weapon off the street entirely . every knife seize be a potential life save . More than 120 , 000 weapon have be remove from Britain ' s street since 2019 , as I mention , through a range of tactic , with almost half seize through stop and search . proactive police work be also vital . operation Sceptre involve intensive activity over several day , and have be run successfully for a number of year . the late phase of the operation take place in November . it have a positive impact , with more than 12 , 000 knife seize , surrender or recover . those burst of activity be important , and can make a real difference , but we also clear that this need to be a priority all year round . the Government will always act in the interest of the law - abide majority , include by strengthen the law where necessary . we want to have strong deterrent for knife possession , with the maximum sentence for possess a knife in public be four year ' imprisonment . in recognition of the seriousness of offence relate to knife , the law provide for minimum custodial sentence for repeat knife possession and offence that involve threaten with a weapon . the court be able to impose a minimum six - month custodial sentence for adult , or a four - month detention and training order sentence for 16 and 17 - year - old . we continue to strengthen the law in that area to ensure that we be get offensive weapon off the street . that be why we be increase the maximum penalty for sale of prohibit offensive weapon , and also for sale of knife to under - 18 . we be also introduce a new offence for the possession of a knife with the intention to cause harm or fear of violence . the new offence will provide police with the power to charge someone who be find to be in possession of a knife or offensive weapon with a more serious offence than possession in public . there be also a role for technology in this , which can help we to improve our response . we should be open to such possibility . the Home Office be actively research and develop technology that be capable of detect knife carry on the person that could be conceal , distinguish they from other benign object such as door key . this be still in the developmental phase , but the Home Office and partner be continue to engage the market to identify new and promising technology to reduce knife crime . the Offensive Weapons Act 2019 introduce knife crime prevention order , which be court order design to prevent people age 12 and over from carry knife and become involve in serious violence . the aim be to stop a small but high - risk cohort of individual from cause immediate harm to other , and to support early intervention to turn young people away from a life of crime . Knife crime prevention order be pilot by the Metropolitan Police Service from July 2022 to March 2023 , and it be currently evaluate that pilot and its effectiveness . that will then inform any decision on whether to roll out the order to all police force in England and Wales . as I say in my opening remark , we be support the police every step of the way in these endeavour to tackle violent crime . we have give they more power and resource to go after criminal , and to take knife and other dangerous weapon off our street . we promise to put more police officer on our street , and we have deliver on that commitment by recruit more than 20 , 000 police officer . as a result of the Government ' s police uplift programme , the Metropolitan Police Service now have more than 35 , 000 officer . that be the high number on record and high than the pre - PUP peak of 33 , 820 in March 2010 . I be sure that the House would join I in say how fantastic it be that so many people be take up a career in policing , and I say that as the son of two former police officer . every new recruit have a role to play in our fight to tackle crime and keep the public safe . I place on record how grateful I be for all that they do . I have mention the funding for Grip and violence reduction unit , which be the Government ' s preventive programme to tackle serious violence , include knife crime . violence reduction unit identify people , particularly young people , in danger of follow the wrong path . they bring together partner from health , probation , policing , housing and beyond in a partnership approach to invest in the good evidence - base intervention to prevent and deter young people from involvement in serious violence , exactly as I see for myself last summer in Leicester . violence reduction unit be critical , as be the Grip programme , which be a hotspot police initiative fund by this Government . in essence , it involve a data - drive approach to identify the precise location to street or neighbourhood level most at risk of serious violence so that we can support they with additional visible police patrol and problem - solve activity to stop crime from happen in the first place . it be welcome that the hon . Lady touch on the work of the London violence reduction unit , which be in receipt of Government funding . we have fund 20 violence reduction unit across the country since 2019 , invest £ 160 million , and they be make a considerable difference . member across the House can welcome that , and I be pleased that the VRU be make a difference on the ground in Battersea , too . we be ensure that we be target crime at root and at source and invest in prevention and early intervention . we be invest £ 200 million over 10 year in the Youth Endowment Fund , as well as co - fund the delivery and evaluation of high - impact and innovative intervention . the Minister have rightly speak about the vrus and the brilliant work take place in London . at the heart of all this be our child and young people . we know , as I allude to in my speech , that many could be exploit by some of these criminal gang . as I have ask he — I wonder whether he will come on to it — will he back Labour ' s plan that would introduce a specific offence around child exploitation ? bear in mind that I be cover this debate for the Policing Minister , my right hon . friend the Member for Croydon South ( Chris Philp ) , I will , if I may , gladly ask he to pick up on any point that remain outstanding from my remark . I genuinely believe that the Youth Endowment Fund be help to transform our understanding of what work to prevent child and people from be involve in violence and from be exploit . it do so by fund grant and evaluation programme and work with many organisation to ensure that they be invest in programme that have a real impact . I will finish by offer my thank again to the hon . Lady for secure this debate , to colleague in attendance and to those across Parliament who I know take a real interest in these matter . these be some of the most serious issue that we deal with as constituency mp . we all want to see the most robust action take in respond to serious violence wherever we find it . the strength of feeling and desire for sustained effective action be clear . each and every one of we know how vital it be for our community and our constituent . I can assure the House and the public that this Government get it . we know the stake , and that be why we be take action across multiple front to tackle knife crime and keep people — especially young people — safe . question put and agree to . House adjourn .