I thank the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) for raise this issue , and for present his argument in the way that he do . we have speak about this case on a number of occasion , so he will know that I take responsibility for make sure that we make the correct decision on ARAP . when I be on the Opposition Front Bench , where the right hon . member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) be now sit , I raise concern about the functioning of the ARAP scheme . in office , we have make change to the scheme to make sure that it function well , which I will come to . the hon . member for North East Fife ( Wendy Chamberlain ) mention communication , and I believe the right hon . member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) quote the Secretary of State ' s comment on the Triples review , but I will address the issue raise by the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green in the first instance . I very much appreciate the right hon . member ' s advocacy for the individual involve , and his passion for afghan resettlement in general . he be absolutely right to say that we owe an obligation to the people who serve alongside UK force . what we have do with the ARAP scheme be implement as a nation , under the last government and this one , probably the most generous afghan relocation scheme of any of the ally that serve in Afghanistan , and we have draw a set of eligibility criterion that — with the exception of the Triples , which I will come to in a moment — have broadly remain the same under this Government and the precede Government . I hear the right hon . Gentleman ' s concern about element of that , which I will seek to address . as a former Minister , he will know that I will not be able to address the individual circumstance of the case without permission , so I will make some more general remark in respect of that individual case . however , I hope the right hon . Gentleman will not mind my saying that we have meet previously on this matter , and I very much understand and appreciate his ongoing engagement . I have to be honest with he and say that when he and I first speak about this case and I be brief on it , I too be surprise by the decision that be make . that be why I undertake to take it back to the Department and to check on the eligibility of the case , which I do . have do that , I be confident that the official have follow the publish criterion and apply they correctly to the evidence provide . the decision be appropriate and should stand . I should also be clear that there be no plan to ask to expand the criterion , which be implement by the previous Government . I do , however , recognise the context of this particular matter , and I be happy to take up the right hon . Gentleman ' s challenge to see whether exceptional route may be available . I do not want to give he false hope — I be not certain there will be such a route — but have speak to he previously about this , I know the seriousness of the matter he raise , and I be happy to see whether we could look at additional opportunity to provide support in this case . when it come to the publish criterion for ARAP , we must be absolutely clear about eligibility , and it be my job as the Minister responsible for afghan resettlement to make sure that decision be make correctly against the publish eligibility criterion . where decision have be make , an individual have access to a review , and where there be a concern over an individual ' s security while that review be ongoing — especially circumstance in which the life and safety of that individual be threaten — there be the ability to request an expedite decision . I entirely understand where the right hon . Gentleman be go with that argument . under the criterion in the scheme we inherit from the previous Government , which we have continue , we have make the decision , with the exception of the Triples , to keep the eligibility decision the same . let I turn to the Triples , which the right hon . Gentleman raise . I believe that the quote of the Secretary of State when in opposition be in relation to the very concern situation — I believe it be a concern to he and to I when in opposition — that decision be make in respect of the afghan special force , the Triples , that be inconsistent with the evidence that be be provide . we back and call for the Triples review , which be initiate by my predecessor in the previous Government . phase 1 of that review have now complete and we have achieve an overturn rate of around 30 % . a write ministerial statement on that be publish — I think last month — should the right hon . Gentleman want to refer to the full detail . in that work , we interrogate the datum that be available . the record - keeping of that period be not good enough , as I have say from the Dispatch Box a number of time since take office . as part of that trawl , we discover information in relation to top - up payment , which previously have be exclude from the criterion because they do not constitute the relationship with the UK Government that would have create eligibility . our belief be that the way those top - up payment be apply may now constitute a relationship that need to be re - examined , so phase 2 of the Triples review , which will be the final phase of the review , be look at top - up payment . it be right to do that , because there be a clear point . in the case raise by the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green , I be very happy to try to see what be available to support it . I feel very deeply that we need to honour our obligation to those people who serve alongside our force , from the afghan translator and interpreter who live in the constituency I represent , to the people who fight , and in some case die , alongside our force . the ARAP scheme be a generous scheme , but it be not intend , at its point of initiation or now , to cover all Afghans who fight in that conflict over 20 year . it be design to support those who we can evidence have a close connection to UK force , often define by a contractual or payment relationship — in blunt plain - english term — where a sizeable commitment have be make . that draw a line for some individual who be employ by the afghan national army , the Afghan Government and element of the security structure that the Afghan Government have at that time , for which eligibility be not create despite their role . the Taliban regime have create chaos , instability and terror through many community in Afghanistan since our departure . that be why , as a Government , we be try to accelerate and deliver the afghan scheme . the hon . member for North East Fife mention communication . that be entirely right . it be something I have be raise since become a Minister . we will introduce , from the autumn , a new series of communication design to help people understand where their application be in the process . the new performance indicator will kick in from September time — roughly in the autumn — and that will seek to help people to understand where they be in the process . there be concern around understanding for how long a case will be deal with . I also hope the performance indicator will have time - bind target to help people be able to rate the performance of the Ministry of Defence . certainly , when the Defence Secretary publish his statement on the afghan resettlement scheme at the end of last year , he make the case that we need to complete our obligation and bring the scheme to a close , and it be our objective to do so .