unlike the hon . Gentleman , I be at the launch of the say report and have read it . he will be aware that , for example , one reason for the complication be that the number of people work from home have increase by 40 % . we have a plan to tackle that with the record investment that be be make to Mayors . he talk about franchising , but it be also the case , without a shadow of a doubt , that he do not have a plan to finance it , particularly for rural local authority . what be the case be that , when labour organisation be challenge on this , they struggle to find out how they will deal with the funding . the truth be that there be no plan and they be not put forward any funding . individual people who attend that event be genuinely in shock at the shadow Secretary of State ' s suggestion that Labour be go to do this , but be unsure about how it would fund it . with great respect to the hon . Lady , she know full well that her council attempt to have an active travel scheme in Jesmond , and it so mess it up that it have to scrap the scheme . the LTN be scrap , and there be 23 , 000 objection and a considerable waste of money . with due respect , active travel be do a great job , and we support it , but council have to take local community with they . the Chair of the PAC be entirely right , although in the MOD context , if it be groundhog day , " groundhog " sound like a vehicle that have slip to the right . more recently , after a detailed inquiry , the Defence Committee , on which I serve , publish a damn report on 4 February 2024 , entitle simply " ready for War ? " . I have serve on the Committee since 2017 and this be one of the punchy report we have ever produce . in answer to the question in the title , the all - party Committee , which include six former MOD Ministers , conclude : " despite the United Kingdom spending approximately £ 50 billion a year on defence ( plus more for Ukraine ) the UK ' s Armed Forces require sustained ongoing investment to be able to fight a sustained , high - intensity war , alongside our ally , against a peer adversary . " in plainer English , and as the subsequent detail in the report starkly point out , despite a considerable outlay of taxpayer ' s cash , we could not fight a sustained war with Putin ' s Russia for more than a couple of month before we run out of ammunition and fighting equipment , not least as we have very few tank , ship or combat aircraft in reserve . the full report can be find online . give that it take year to build a modern warship — a totally ridiculous 11 year in the case of the new Type 26 frigate — and four year to build a Typhoon fighter , if we have to fight what the strategist sometimes describe as a " come as you be war " , one with little further warning , we would have to rely on whatever equipment we have to hand or could rapidly remobilise . we simply do not have enough war - win kit to win as it be . as the Public Accounts Committee ' s report on the 10 - year equipment plan illustrate starkly , the difference between what the MOD aspire to buy and the funding it be likely to have available be £ 17 billion . however , it be bad because the three service account for the plan on a different basis . without go into all the technicality , an apple and apple comparison across the three service show that the gap be £ 29 billion . even beyond gap in capability of our kit , our great weakness be now the lack of skilled personnel to operate and maintain the equipment that we do have . without they — and far too many of they be leave , as the Chair of the Defence Committee say — even multi - billion dollar aircraft system simply remain in the hangar . one perfect example of how dysfunctional the MOD have now become in relation to people be the saga of Capita — or , forgive I , " Crapita " , as it be now affectionally know to the Defence Committee . it have totally mess up the recruitment system for the British Army . a few year ago , its share price top £ 4 ; today , it be barely 13 penny . everyone in Defence know that the outsourced contract have be a disaster , yet absolutely no one in the upper echelon of the Department have the moral courage to sack the company . the Defence Secretary recently describe the situation in the Times as " ludicrous " . he be absolutely right . indeed , no doubt he have make a note of his own comment on his own famous spreadsheet , but still nothing actually happen . capita limp on as the Army bleed out — with , in some part of the Army , three soldier now leave for every one that Capita somehow , painfully , manage to recruit . if we think we be go to deter the like of Vladimir Putin in this manner , we be live on a different planet , in a parallel universe , in a fantasy dimension . give that we now spend the thick end of £ 50 billion a year on defence , the british taxpaye public be quite entitle to ask why so little of our defence capability work properly . why be some of the Army ' s fight vehicle 60 year old ? why do we have hardly any battle tank that actually work ? why do we have hardly any submarine that be now regularly put to sea ? why do we have aircraft carrier that perennially break down whenever they try to leave port ? bluntly , it be because we now have a Ministry of Defence that have become in recent year a gigantic , sclerotic bureaucracy ; constantly hidebound by needless , self - generate red tape ; obsess with process rather than outcome ; in which some senior civil servant be now more interested in wokery than weaponry , endlessly rip off by some of their own major contractor , such as Boeing , to name but one ; and in which key element of our fighting equipment be so old — and the procurement system for replace they so broken — that we now can not fight a major war with Russia for more than a few week , as it well know . moreover , as the Red Book clearly show in table 2 . 1 and 2 . 2 , we be cut the core UK defence budget next year by £ 2 . 5 billion and play " smoke and mirror " with the donation to Ukraine and with address an overspend on the nuclear enterprise from the Treasury reserve in order to pretend otherwise . this act of what the Russians call " maskirovka " , or strategic deception , be wholly unworthy of a Conservative Government . if member happen to believe , as I do , that the role of our armed force be determinedly to save life by convince any potential aggressor that , be they to attack we , we would defeat they , then we be palpably fail . this be not an intellectual parlour game . ultimately , this be about whether our grandchild be go to grow up in someone else ' s re - education camp , but we might not know that if we walk into the current MOD . we can try to blame the military , for instance , for so frequently over - specify new military equipment , such as Ajax , that it enter service many year late , but in the end the responsibility lie with the politician who , theoretically at least , be suppose to be in charge . the Romans have a famous saying about military matter : " si vis pacem , para bellum " — he who desire peace save - line3should prepare for war . give that the Secretary of State , the man who run the Department , have tell we that we be in a pre - war world , surely we have well start prepare for it , if we be to have any chance whatsoever of prevent it , and we should now do that in earnest , before it be too late . I agree with every word my right hon . friend , the former eminent Chairman of the Defence Committee , just say . my one caveat be that the MOD ' s excuse for these capability gap be that we can rely on ally to fight with we . but they will be rely on we , and if we be unable to support they or they be on wartime task elsewhere , thing might go horribly wrong . I say all of this not just as someone who serve proudly as a Territorial Army infantry officer in my local Royal Anglian Regiment during the cold war ; not just as someone who be still very proud to carry the late Queen ' s commission ; not just as a former veteran and then Armed Forces Minister in the Ministry of Defence , albeit almost a decade ago ; but most of all , as I say at Prime Minister ' s question last week , as the devoted son of a D - day veteran . Stoker 1st Class Reginal Francois die when I be 40 year of age . he tell I one night of the carnage — his word — that he witness that day , albeit from offshore , on a minesweeper name HMS Bressay . in the afternoon , they be opposite Omaha beach . let I quote Shakespeare ' s famous phrase : " this story shall the good man teach his son . " my father be a good man . the story that he tell I be of a country that eventually , reluctantly , have to go to war against the evil of Nazi tyranny because for year its politician have be so parsimonious — he actually say " tight " — and so naive that when Nazism emerge , we completely fail to deter it . that be the lesson of the 1930 , but it be also his lesson to I . my father make I take a solemn vow that , as his son , I would never take live in a free country for grant , because , as he say , too many good man have die to achieve it . two year after we have that conversation , he be dead . that be why I be here this afternoon . that be why I come into politic in the first place . as a wartime serviceman , my father be a great admirer of Winston Churchill , our great ever Prime Minister , who lead this country through a war of national survival and then lose a general election for his trouble . when I walk into the Chamber early this afternoon , I could still see the damage cause when the Chamber be bomb in 1941 . Churchill insist that it not be repair , lest we forget , and he be right . in summary , I may not be my father ' s contemporary , that famously courageous MP , Leo Amery , so I can not claim to " speak for England " on this matter , but I be elect to speak for the people of Rayleigh and Wickford , and so , on their behalf , I issue this stark warning today . the sky be darken . brutal dictator with powerful weapon at their disposal be on the rise . the democracy be on the backfoot rather than the front . history tell we time and again , and indeed ad nauseam , that the appeasement of dictator — be they call Adolf Hitler or Vladimir Putin — do not work . we should be increase the defence budget to at least 3 % of gdp — what my right hon . friend the Member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) use to call " at least three to keep we free " — not cut it , as we now be , and pretend that we be not . the first duty of Government , above all other , be the defence of the realm , and we forget that at our peril . si vis pacem , para bellum .