prayer the Second Deputy Chairman of Ways and Means take the Chair as Deputy Speaker ( Standing Order no . 3 ) . I beg to move , that the House sit in private . question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 163 ) and negative . Rare Cancers Bill Second read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . we all know someone who have suffer from a rare cancer — a brain tumour , childhood cancer , pancreatic cancer , liver cancer , or one of the other cancer on a long list that be unfortunately all too familiar . each of they may statistically be consider rare , but collectively they be anything but rare . blood Cancer UK state that rare and less common cancer account for 47 % of all UK cancer diagnosis — a staggering 180 , 000 a year . the irony of the Bill ' s title be that so - call rare cancer be not rare . common cancer deserve attention , but so too do rare cancer . I want to share an example of a family in my constituency who be confront with a rare cancer . tilly ' s first symptom be leg pain and loss of appetite . this be in September 2021 , when face - to - face GP consultation be not possible . on visit A & E , she be give ibuprofen . it be think that she might have a virus . six week later , she return to A & E and be transfer to the cancer ward , where she be diagnose with stage 4 neuroblastoma . on diagnosis , she be give a 50 % chance of survival . despite undergo over a dozen round of chemotherapy and an operation , she sadly pass away about a year after her first symptom appear . Tilly be just four year old . her father Jonathan , a headteacher in my constituency , be in the Gallery . he reach out to I after read about the Bill . he explain his frustration that the development of new treatment for neuroblastoma have be move at a glacial pace for too long . the same be true for many other rare cancer . this slow pace of change be not respect by these cancer , and it mean that Tilly miss her seventh birthday yesterday . I thank Jonathan for share tilly ' s story , and wish he all the good as he move to Northern Ireland with Tilly ' s mum and big sister Emily to start a new job . I thank Livingston ' s Team Jak for their ongoing support for Tilly ' s family and many other . neither Jonathan nor I want to suggest that the Bill would have save Tilly , but we hope that it will improve survival rate for other , and take they beyond the 50 % rate give to Tilly . that be why Jonathan be here today , and why I be here today . nobody tell I that the most amazing thing about be an MP would be the people we meet almost daily , who want to make their community , our country or even the world a well place . that be particularly true of the people I have be humble to meet on my journey to speak about the Bill today , include cancer patient , survivor , the bereaved and campaigner , all of whom want just one thing : justice . although the healthcare system in the UK be found on the notion of equality , fairness and justice , they believe that rare cancer patient be be overlook . their demand for justice cover three point . the first be that beat a rare cancer should not be less likely than beat other cancer . I have say that 47 % of all UK cancer diagnosis each year be of rare and less common type . these patient already have the card stack against they , as they be 17 % less likely to survive — an injustice cause by the relative lack of research and development in this field over many year . secondly , have a rare cancer should not mean be less likely to benefit from a medical breakthrough . accord to Cancer52 , in 2024 , an astonishing 82 % of patient with rare and less common cancer be not offer a clinical trial , and so be deny access to potentially lifesave treatment . often that be because such trial do not even exist , because there have be so little progress , and when they do exist , they be not always easy for patient to access . let I give an example : there be a remarkable young woman in my constituency know as Kira the Machine . Kira have be live with neuroblastoma since she be 10 . she have be through it all : a prognosis of inoperability , 26 round of chemotherapy and eight relapse . she and her mum , Aud , be fundraise legend locally . I do not know a school or workplace in Edinburgh that do not help when they be give just three week to raise £ 500 , 000 for lifesave specialist treatment in the USA . now 21 and fundraise for other cancer sufferer , Kira be an example to we all . she owe her life to a lung cancer drug not typically provide to treat neuroblastoma and not yet generally available in the UK for that purpose , although I understand that solve kid ' cancer be work on that . Kira appear on my social medium so much , and be really well know in Edinburgh because of the fantastic campaign that she and her mum run . she be a bit of a celebrity , if I can use that word . she come into my office recently to talk about the Bill . it be really humble to meet she , and because she have that celebrity status , in my mind , I be also quite starstruck ; I tell she that it be like Taylor Swift enter my office . I resist the temptation to exchange friendship bracelet with she , but she give I a Solving Kids ' cancer badge , which I be proud to wear today . Kira ' s story be important because it remind we that repurpose exist drug can unlock great benefit , but those benefit can be deliver at scale only through additional medical research effort and clinical trial . the NHS have a drug repurposing office . to date , it have repurpose one drug , and that be for breast cancer . do my hon . friend think that be good enough ? I welcome that intervention ; I think that be a leading question . of course it be not good enough . I do not think that anybody here think that it be good enough , include the Minister . unfortunately , at present there be very few clinical trial in this country for rare cancer treatment . family such as Kira ' s should not need to crowdfund for treatment overseas ; we should be build the capacity here in the UK . thirdly , have a rare cancer should not mean that a diagnosis be delay when compare with diagnosis of other cancer . rare cancer sufferer tell I that their symptom be often less likely to be recognise , as doctor be less familiar with they . I thank my hon . friend for the powerful way he be introduce his Bill . my constituent Steph be just 29 year old and be a mam to two little girl . she be diagnose with grade 4 glioblastoma , know as astrocytoma , on her birthday last year . for month prior to her diagnosis , she be treat for migraine by her GP . Steph know that she be not suffer from migraine , yet she be rudely dismiss by an A & E doctor , and feel nobody be listen to she . Steph have since have brain surgery , radiotherapy and chemotherapy . my hon . friend know that early diagnosis and treatment be vital . can he assure Steph and her family , and I , that the Bill will help to raise awareness across the medical profession of rare brain cancer ? absolutely . last week , I attend a reception for the Eve Appeal . I be really strike by the fact that early diagnosis be a big feature of what the charity be talk about , and I will come on to that in just a second . as a consequence of the lack of recognition of the symptom of rare cancer , too many people be diagnose too late . last week , at an event host by the Brain Tumour Charity , I meet Gabrielle and her wife and child . Gabrielle tell I how the neurologist to whom she be initially refer do not recognise her brain tumour symptom , and tell she instead to go home , breathe into a paper bag and get some counselling . if only cure brain tumour be so easy . reflect on the comment make by my hon . friend the Member for South Shields ( Mrs Lewell - Buck ) , an observation that I have make on this journey be that so many of the people who have talk about late diagnosis have be woman . that be purely anecdotal , but it seem to be the case . when I be at the Eve Appeal reception , the point be make that so many woman be turn away ; the GP tell they that they be hormonal , premenstrual or premenopausal . my hon . friend be make an incredibly important point , with which many across the Chamber will agree . the statistic be particularly stark for woman from black , asian and minority ethnic background ; they be even more likely to be dismiss . I thank my hon . friend and office neighbour for make that point , which be also make by Eve Appeal . I can not remember the statistic , but there be a stark difference . I talk about this issue when I meet the Minister yesterday and she gently point out to I that it be not just in healthcare where woman be dismiss as hormonal , premenstrual and so on . I thank she for remind I of that in the gentlest possible way . it be a cruel irony that rare cancer such as Gabrielle ' s tumour be typically less survivable , make early diagnosis even more important . rare cancer patient require early , not later , diagnosis . I have speak about poor outcome , lack of progress in develop treatment and late diagnosis . my Bill focus on the first two point , but I want to acknowledge the need to improve diagnosis , because of comment that have already be make . I be sure that will feature in the cancer plan . I be the first to admit that , when I be successful in the private Member ' s Bill ballot , I find it daunt as a new MP . I think I have some really good idea for a Bill , but as soon as my ping - pong ball be pick from the goldfish bowl , I be inundate with call from constituent , charity and lobbyist , each tell I that their cause be well than any I could think of . I consider many worthwhile cause over the follow day , but while have a coffee in Colinton Mains Tesco in Edinburgh South West , I receive email from member of the public who support the campaign of my hon . friend the Member for Mitcham and Morden ( Dame Siobhain McDonagh ) . just last week I meet Oriana , one of the people who email I . it be incredibly move to meet she ; it take I right back to the start of this journey . I post on my Facebook page about meet she , and straight away somebody say that they know she and that she have help they when their family have be face with glioblastoma . that be a reminder that so many people affect by these condition turn their loss into something really positive and help other people . my hon . friend ' s campaign relate to glioblastoma , a type of tumour that take my father - in - law . I feel that the star have align for I . I really do mean that ; I really do get that feeling . I want to pay tribute to my hon . friend . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] more , more ! I know she to be a formidable woman who in this context be drive by glioblastoma take her sister , Margaret . I do not know her sister at all , which be my loss , but I do know that she shape my party and she help change our country for the well , and I know above all that she be love by her sister . Glioblastoma be typical of so many rare cancer , and it start I on this journey so I want to talk about it far . my father - in - law , Ivor Hutchison , be a dignified man but glioblastoma do not respect that . he be a technical teacher at Bell Baxter high school in Fife . he be married to Sylvia and they have four daughter , Denise , Iona , my lovely wife Audrey who be in the Gallery — I have just embarrass she — and Sarah . in time , Ivor and Sylvia have grandchild : Andrew , our daughter Ruth , Hannah , Matthew , our son Ben , Rory and Sophie . Ivor be not a passive grandfather ; he work hard to ensure his grandchild flourish . in September 2017 , Ivor begin have problem with his speech . my wife Audrey , an NHS nurse , be concerned that it might be a sign of dementia . we all hope that that be not the case . follow an MRI scan in the November , we receive the devastating news that Ivor have glioblastoma . at Christmas he be still very much himself and enjoy the festivity . Ivor never have a pound of fat on he , but when it come to Christmas time he really do hoover up the food and enjoy the Christmas meal . it be great to see he that Christmas , but we do feel that it would be his last . once we enter the new year , he begin to lose his mobility , and eventually he be admit to Adamson hospital in Cupar . in 2018 , surround by his wife and daughter , Ivor die peacefully , eight month after his first symptom . he have a good life and his daughter be a fantastic legacy to he , as well as all the pupil he teach at school . however , as a physically fit man , Ivor should have live long : he should have live to see his birthday last weekend , and if he have do so , he would not have miss two of his grandchild get marry and his first great - grandchild , Fraya , be bear in December last year . I assume that he have be unlucky with glioblastoma . it be not until I meet my hon . friend the Member for Mitcham and Morden that I learn that only 25 % of glioblastoma patient live beyond 12 month after diagnosis , and only one in 20 survive beyond five year . despite that awful prognosis , as for other rare cancer , the drug to treat glioblastoma have not change in decade . that be why I know in my heart that I need to introduce a Bill that would help equip those work hard to fight against glioblastoma , and all rare cancer , with the tool they need to further their effort and , ultimately , save life . over the past 15 year , thank to the dedicated work of charity , survivor and researcher , we have see a 10 % rise in survival rate for those diagnose with cancer . globally , new treatment be be develop and roll out to patient , improve outcome and save life in our NHS every single day . however , rare cancer patient be be leave behind , and I need to explain why . it be not due to a lack of effort by charity or those affect by the disease . in fact , in the Gallery today be member of some incredible charity who be fight against rare cancer in what be often an uphill battle . I thank they for their hard work in help I to develop the Bill — they really have help I — which aim to address the injustice face by rare cancer patient and their family . for all the people I have meet from the charity , their work be much more than a job for they ; it be about make a difference to people ' s life , improve survivability and support family . the reason for the uphill battle be that research into rare cancer be much less appealing to pharmaceutical company when compare with more common condition . with small patient population , there be an increase logistical challenge in bring patient together . currently , we be lack a sufficient development strategy and there be no single source of patient datum , mean company must undertake the costly endeavour of find patient and verify eligibility . even if they succeed in run a clinical trial and a drug prove to be an effective treatment , company face the challenge of sell a drug develop at great expense to a small market . ultimately , these company exist to return a profit for their shareholder . give a choice between investment in potential treatment for a rare cancer or a more a common one , too often rare cancer patient lose out . have set out the challenge face by those diagnose with rare cancer , let I now address what the Bill aim to accomplish . I will list four key measure and explain their impact : appoint a name responsible lead for the delivery of rare cancer research ; create a single registry of rare cancer trial ; create a single registry of rare cancer patient available for trial ; and define an evidence base for repurpose new cancer treatment . let I explain in turn why these be important . first , the Bill would place a duty on the Secretary of State to facilitate and promote research relate to rare cancer patient . the appointment of a national specialty lead for rare cancer in the National Institute of Health and Care Research would provide the Secretary of State with advice on the design and planning of research to facilitate collaboration between relevant party . that will ensure co - ordination and accountability for the delivery of new cancer research in the UK . secondly , the Bill would increase access to clinical trial via a service tailor to rare cancer patient . through the Secretary of State ' s new duty , that would be accomplish as part of the exist " be Part of Research " registry , ensure that all trial be register in a single place . thirdly , charity and clinician tell I that more trial would be attract to the UK if we have easy access to patient cohort . establish a single database of willing patient would remove a significant burden on researcher in find and verify eligible people for clinical trial . I congratulate the hon . gentleman on introduce a Bill on this important subject . he mention research . can he explain why the extent of clause 2 and 3 be limit to England and Wales ? what be happen in Scotland in relation to the research issue ? the challenge be devolution . I be a huge fan of devolution , but often the UK be at its good when it work together , particularly on healthcare . I hope that in time we will see progress and the nation will work together . I do not want to overstate this , but there have be discussion across the UK about how we could work together on the issue , so perhaps the answer be , " watch this space . " the Bill ' s fourth measure be to trigger a review by the Government of the orphan drug regulation , to examine how they can be reform to well incentivise pharmaceutical company to invest in clinical trial for rare cancer . specifically , it will consider how incentive could be provide to pharmaceutical company to trial the repurposing of new cancer treatment . we often hear about how drug development for one cancer can be use to defeat another ; that be what Kira rely on right now . my Bill aim to build a foundation for industrialise that approach via incentive . the EU have a similar system for incentivise the testing of drug for paediatric use that have already be approve for adult use , so the approach have be try and test . together , these measure will ensure that we have leadership in Government and will remove the barrier to run new clinical trial that researcher and pharmaceutical company face . I thank my hon . friend for the powerful way in which he be introduce the Bill . will he recognise the work of pioneer team such as the one at Charing Cross hospital , under Imperial College healthcare NHS trust , where Professor Michael Seckl be lead the way in groundbreake treatment for and research on gestational trophoblastic disease and germ cell tumour ? do he agree that those centre need support to expand and share their research finding with the rest of the NHS ? absolutely . there be fantastic expertise in our university across the UK ; as I say that , I have to refer hon . member to my register interest because of my connection with the university sector . there be much more that we can do to attract the good researcher to the UK and build capacity in UK university . the Bill will provide great accountability for the delivery of new research , but please do not just take my word for it . Brain Tumour Research have describe it as " essential for a brain tumour cure " . I do not feel any pressure at all when I read that quote ! no , it be quite daunting , to be honest . the less Survivable Cancers Taskforce say that the Bill " could be a truly transformative moment in the UK ' s approach to research for rare and less common cancer . " my friend at the Brain Tumour Charity say that the Bill " be a framework for tangible , impactful change . " at this point , I have to mention my daughter ' s connection with the Brain Tumour Charity . she be run a marathon in May to raise funding for it , and I wish she well . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] thank you . let I list some of the other group that support the Bill . they include Pancreatic Cancer UK , which have be absolutely fantastic in its support for what we be do ; Cancer52 , an organisation that represent more than 100 group ; the Angel Mums ; the Grace Kelly Childhood Cancer Trust ; and the Inflammatory Breast Cancer Network UK . inflammatory breast cancer account for 2 % of breast cancer diagnosis in the UK each year , but 10 % of the death . the Bill be also support by Target ovarian Cancer , Brainstrust , AMMF — the Cholangiocarcinoma Charity , the Urology Foundation , the Tessa Jowell Brain Cancer Mission , Action Kidney Cancer and Sarcoma UK , which I meet this week . I have a friend with that cancer , and it be a fantastic organisation that I hope to work more with in the future . it be support by Maggie ' s , Shine Cancer Support , Solving kid ' cancer , the british Liver Trust , blood Cancer UK , Radiotherapy UK , Leukaemia UK , CCLG — the Children and Young People ' s Cancer Association , CLL Support , Neuroblastoma UK , Salivary Gland Cancer UK , Neuroendocrine Cancer UK , Melanoma Focus , Myeloma UK , Hope for Tomorrow , Alike , Yorkshire Cancer Research , Young live vs Cancer , the Tessa Jowell Foundation , the UK Mastocytosis Support Group , the Bone Cancer Research Trust , the Neurosciences Foundation and the Eve Appeal . the Eve Appeal have a fantastic reception last week , and when I go along to it , have its support feel like a real tipping point in the progress we be make in build support for the Bill . it be great to see the Minister as well , and I have to say — this be not a trivial point — that the cake there be absolutely fantastic . I do not doubt that when I get back to my office and check my email , more organisation will have get in touch to say that they want to support what we be do today . I know that many member in the Chamber today will have deeply personal story to tell , on their own behalf and on behalf of their constituent . I look forward to hear those testimony as we debate this Bill , because it be so important to give those people a voice . I will conclude by say that the Bill we be debate today have a real chance of make a difference . for too long , rare cancer patient have be leave on the sideline without significant advancement — this can not go on . tilly and Ivor deserve a well chance of beat the cancer inside they , and those who be yet to be diagnose deserve a well chance of a full life . let we pass this Bill today and work across the UK to take the fight to rare cancer and save life . I commend this Bill to the House . rise — before I call the first speaker , I be aware that this be a very personal debate for some member , so please feel free to leave the Chamber if you need to . let ' s look after each other today . I congratulate the hon . member for Edinburgh South West ( Dr Arthur ) , both on his good fortune in be draw in the private Member ' s Bill ballot and on his wisdom in pick this very important issue to take forward . have be similarly lucky in be draw in that ballot a few week after I be first elect , nearly a decade ago , I know the barrage of call and email that suddenly come your way — the very sudden and slightly fleeting popularity that come from come towards the top of the private Member ' s Bill ballot — and the very many , very worthy cause and campaign that come your way for you to choose between . the hon . Gentleman could not have pick a well cause than the one represent by this Bill , and if he be never again quite as popular as he be in the few hour after the publication of the ballot result , I know that he would willingly exchange all of that popularity in an instant for the difference that this legislation can make to so many life across the country , if and when it be pass and implement — as we hope it will be . I stand today not just as a Member of this House but as a friend who be deeply move by the pain of see someone I care about — someone who have become like family — struggle against an insidious disease . this Bill be not just another piece of legislation ; it be a cry for help . it be a plea for those who be fight for their life — a lifeline for family who be watch their love one slip away , bit by bit and day after day . too often , those diagnose with rare cancer be leave strand in a system that do not have the answer they need . we know the wonder that pharmaceutical company can do in drug development , but the horrible truth be that few people be able or willing to invest the enormous amount of money need to take forward drug development — know that about one in 25 , 000 drug candidate make it to market — for condition that will require that drug 1 , 000 or 2 , 000 time a year , at most . do the hon . Gentleman agree that there be a whole range of new modern immunotherapy drug that could be use on these cancer ? they already exist , they be use to treat other people , but they be simply not try . the cost of those trial be not overwhelming and we can do they , and the NHS repurposing project should be do they . the hon . Lady be obviously right , and I know that she approach this subject with , tragically , a huge amount of personal experience . we have already see drug — in some case , long - market drug — be apply for new purpose and new condition . without those costly clinical trial , they will not be license or approve for prescription , and that be why the Bill be so important . clinical trial be sadly a distant hope for far too many currently , and many patient be leave with the crushing , gut - wrench word , " there be nothing more we can do . " those word can be a death sentence , but they do not have to be — not if we act . many Members and House staff will know my senior parliamentary assistant and dear friend Dan Horrocks . he be well know as the owner of Bella , his therapy shih tzu who he have while he be be treat for his third brain tumour and who be often see roam around the Palace and 1 Parliament Street . Dan have work for I since I be first elect in 2015 , but he be not just my senior parliamentary assistant ; he have become like family . he be a father , a husband and a four - time cancer survivor . for 14 year , he have fight this monster , each time feel the ground slip more from under he as his option narrow , leave he and his family with ever - reduce hope . we have see he face unimaginable pain . I have watch he endure brain surgery and radiotherapy , and see the fear in his eye each time the disease come back and he hear his doctor tell he that they do not know how much more his body can take , and whether he can be put through that next course of radiotherapy . Dan ' s journey start with something as simple as headache , as the hon . member for Edinburgh South West refer to in another case , that no one thought be serious at the time . as a teenager , three GPs all misdiagnose that tumour and for unknown reason , the GPs do not want to send Dan for a scan . a simple scan to check that there be no malign cause would have identify those tumour month early . it be a free voucher for an eye test that save Dan ' s life , because it be not until , by sheer luck , an optician notice something wrong in his eye that anyone realise the nightmare he be live . that optician save his life . what follow have be nothing short of a nightmare : brain tumour , surgery , radiotherapy and the heart - wrench hope that every treatment might be the last , only for the disease to rear its ugly head again . now the cancer have spread to his spine . his doctor and consultant have no answer . his option be dwindle , yet Dan ' s fight be far from over , because Dan be not just fight for himself , but for his two - year - old son , Elijah , who deserve to grow up with his father by his side , cheer he on at his first football match and guide he through life ' s milestone . Dan dream of walk his son to school every day and of be there for every moment that really matter , whether it be his graduation or his wedding — the moment that every parent should have the chance to see . he be fight with his wife , Sonia , who have be his rock through all of this . Sonia have stay by his side through every hospital visit , through every sleepless night , and through every moment of doubt and fear . together they have dream of a life grow old together , of watch their child grow up , and of building memory that will last forever , but that future be slip away . that be why we be here today — to ensure that no parent , no family , no child have to face the horror of rare cancer without hope . this Bill be not just about change law or regulation ; it be about give family like Dan ' s a fighting chance . it mandate a review of the orphan drug regulation to ensure that rare cancer get the investment they so desperately need , create the national specialty lead to drive research and innovation , and establish a registry service to help to connect patient to the clinical trial that really could save their life . this Bill give hope — a real chance for family who be face the unimaginable . I stand here today with a heart full of hope , but also with a heavy heart , because I know that time be not on their side . Dan do not have the luxury of wait . his family do not have the luxury of wait . no one diagnose with rare cancer have that luxury . that be why this Bill be so very urgent . we spend a lot of time in this Chamber talk about politic , but this be not about politic : it be about real people like Dan who desperately need our help . cancer do not care about politic . it do not care what background we come from , our age or gender or what party we belong to . it strike indiscriminately . it take what it want , and it leave devastation in its wake . that be why we must respond with urgency , with compassion and , most importantly , with action . I strongly support this Bill and I urge all hon . member here today to stand with we , to stand with the family cling to the hope that there be something more we can do and to stand with those , like Dan , who be fight for more time , for more moment , for more chance to hold their love one close . the cost of inaction be measure not just in money , but in precious life lose . let we pass this Bill . let we give people like Dan and his family the hope they so desperately need . let we give they a future — a future that be still within reach . I rise to speak about a Bill that will increase research funding focus on more effective treatment for rare form of cancer . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh South West ( Dr Arthur ) for introduce the Bill . like many in this House , I rise today because I have lose a family member to a rare cancer , and I also rise as a member of the Health and Social Care Committee . in the last Parliament , the Committee conduct a Future Cancer inquiry , which recommend that " the UK should be lead on drive up international action to tackle the poor outcome for the least survivable and least common cancer . " this Bill will do that — but , as I say , my reason for speak in this debate be much more personal . on 20 January this year , my brother Alex English pass away from high - grade acinic cell carcinoma , a form of salivary gland cancer . I tell his story to highlight what we can win , because this Bill can give family the gift of more time with the special people they love . increasingly , more common cancer be treatable or be illness that people can live with , but on rare cancer we still have a way to go , and without focus we will not get any far . there be more than 700 diagnosis of various form of salivary gland cancer each year , but my search for related term in Hansard find only two mention in this Chamber in the past 30 year — my hon . friend have just make the third . one of those mention be from I , follow my brother ' s death . that be why we need more focus . in evidence to that Select Committee inquiry , Cancer52 note that , while they represent 47 % of diagnosis of less common cancer , rare cancer account for 55 % of death . member across this House have our own cancer journey — ourselves , our friend or our loved one — and I want to talk about my brother ' s journey . not all cancer journey have the outcome that we want , and even with this Bill we will still lose some people , but more investment into research for rare cancer can give we something crucial : time . I would do anything for more time with my brother . if you will indulge I , Madam Deputy Speaker , I would like to talk for a minute about the person who Alex be . the most important thing about Alex be not how he die ; it be how he live and the mark he leave on the world . he fit a lot into 53 year . a lot of we think that our eld sibling be rock star , but in my brother ' s case that be literally true . the band he join at university , call Pure , tour with band like Soundgarden and reach the top 10 in Japan . I have always be tremendously proud to call he my brother . I be proud of the horse - draw narrowboat company he run in Hebden Bridge , which form part of many people ' s happy childhood memory , and of his subsequent time at the National Trust , where he help property to become profitable , work to restore nature and work with local authority . his last major project be create woodland near Lunt , in Liverpool . but most of all , I be proud of the person he be . he be always funny — he have a surreal wit . he be unfailingly kind and the sort of non - toxic model of masculinity that the world need more of . I remember the humour and love in the good man ' s speech he give for I , and I will never not be sorry that I have write eulogy for my brother but never a good man ' s speech . while prepare for Christmas in 2023 , I get a call from Alex and he ask if I have a minute to talk , which be unlike he , because he would not generally be over - serious . he say he have a lump on the side of his face that be , in his word , unsightly but not overly concern . it might have be cancer , but there be a number of other thing that it could have be , and if it be cancer , it be likely to be a very treatable form . he instruct I to be aware of it but not make a big deal of it , because , typically , he do not want to worry our mum . later , it transpire that it be acinic cell carcinoma , but the prognosis be good and they be go to operate . the cancer continue to grow . his operation take 14 hour . the thing about Alex ' s tumour be that the version of the illness he have be high grade , which mean that it mutate fast . it be something that have only be identify in about 100 case , and which no doubt could have be identify early have we know more about cancer like his . last spring , in my mum ' s garden , during a hush conversation with a different family member to the side , they tell I that Alex might only have 18 month to live . I hug my two - year - old son , who be play in the garden unaware , because I be try not to make a big deal of it — but sometimes you need to hug someone . every update get bad , until I take a day off during the election campaign to visit he at the Christie hospital because his lung have collapse . then , because it be never a straight line , his health improve . he get to sit up there in the Gallery to watch my maiden speech in Parliament . we go to a Pixies concert together at the Piece Hall in Halifax . then he get bad , Madam Deputy Speaker , and on Christmas Eve last year he be hospitalise again . when he return home , we know he be come home to die . I can not say enough about his wonderful friend , particularly Matt and Sarah , and my incredible family , who care for he at the end . all of we would have spend more time at his bedside if we could , because time with people you love be a privilege . that be what this Bill be about : give people more time with those they love , perhaps even a full lifetime together . in case where the cancer be bad and it can not be treat or cure , it be about give people more time , well health and an understanding of the journey that they be on . it be about give people more special moment , be it a Pixies concert or read a story to a child — Alex read the good story — and time to organise what you leave behind . People who develop cancer that be rare still matter , and they still deserve more time . the work to help people like Alex in the future must start today . the Government have a renew emphasis on tackle rare cancer , in memory of the sister of my hon . friend the Member for Mitcham and Morden ( Dame Siobhain McDonagh ) and of Tessa Jowell , and for countless other campaigner , include those in the Gallery . what we need be focus and determination to respond quickly . I thank the House for indulge I today . let we be that world leader that be so desperately need in tackle rare cancer . let we give family special time with those they love the most . let we pass this Bill . I thank the hon . member for Edinburgh South West ( Dr Arthur ) for bring the Bill before the House , and pay tribute to he and to the hon . member who have already speak so movingly on this subject , include the hon . member for Calder Valley ( Josh Fenton - Glynn ) . I also pay tribute to the hon . member for Mitcham and Morden ( Dame Siobhain McDonagh ) for her tireless advocacy . the many form of cancer categorise as rare accord to the Bill might each strike a small number of people , but take together rare cancer make up almost one in five of all cancer diagnosis . each incident , each diagnosis , each prognosis have the same devastating impact on family throughout the country , my own be no exception . my brother - in - law , Group Captain Pip Harding , who be 53 , be diagnose with stage 4 glioblastoma this time last year . at the time , he be serve in the Royal Air Force with the US Indo - Pacific command , one of his many tour , include in Afghanistan and Iraq . he be give nine to 12 month to live . for his wife Claire and his five child , the news change everything . in September , I join Pip , his family and over 400 other love one at RAF Benson in Oxfordshire for what be call a " dining out " or farewell ceremony , an event to allow everyone to be together with Pip , potentially for one last time . you can imagine how difficult , yet how move , that be . a few week later , Pip be lucky enough to come across the pioneer brain surgeon Dr Paul Mulholland , who have be trialle a treatment call oncothermia . this employ radio frequency to target and heat malignant cancer tumour cell while avoid healthy cell . oncothermia be not currently available on the NHS and each one - hour treatment cost £ 1 , 000 . a tumour like Pip ' s require 36 session . for most people , indeed for almost all of we , that kind of money and , consequently , that course of care , be out of reach , but the 400 friend and family who attend Pip ' s farewell dinner set up a gofundme page , which be now cover the cost of the treatment . we love Pip , which be why we all put in as much as we could to fund it . cancer like this , with a brutal and bleak prognosis , bring people together to fight it . I want the Government to share that resolve . since start the monthly oncothermia session in December , the first MRI scan show that Pip ' s brain tumour have reduce in size from 7 cm to 1 . 7 cm . Pip be , thank God , still alive and watch today . european study now suggest that oncothermia can extend life for four to five year . for Pip ' s five child , that time be everything . but that be not the whole of my experience with glioblastoma . in 2021 , my husband John ' s good friend Ian die from the disease . his widow Nicola be in the Gallery . almost unbelievably , Nicola ' s sister Karen , who have do so much to help Nicola through the loss of Ian , be herself diagnose with a stage 4 glioblastoma last year and die a few month later . I know that other in the Chamber and in the Gallery have have their life touch by glioblastoma , too . I be sure they will agree that in the past three decade there have be an unacceptable lack of progress make on this disease : a lack of progress in develop new treatment , make they widely accessible and keep those diagnose with glioblastoma here with their love one . in the past 50 year , cancer survival rate in the UK have double . whereas in the 1970 only 25 % of those diagnose be expect to live 10 year , today over half do . that be a record of staggering success and represent countless life extend , make rich and full , and even save . when it come to glioblastoma , however , there be far less to celebrate . the chance of live a decade with the disease be one in 100 . the gain in life expectancy over recent decade can be measure in month — precious , yes , but not nearly enough . Glioblastoma be a rare cancer , but also an exceptionally lethal one . brain tumour be the big cancer killer of child and of adult under the age of 40 , yet in recent year , glioblastoma have be apportion only around 1 % to 2 % of UK cancer funding . in 2018 , to honour Dame Tessa Jowell , the Government announce a doubling of funding for research into brain tumour , but six year later , it be widely report that less than half of the pledge £ 40 million have actually be spend . during each of those year , as funding be be delay and sluggishly deploy , more than 3 , 000 people in the UK be diagnose with glioblastoma . will the Government update the House on how the remain fund have be and be be spend ? will the Minister assure I that as the national cancer plan be develop alongside the NHS 10 - year plan , deliberate and specific consideration will be give to glioblastoma ? the Medicines and Healthcare product Regulatory Agency incentivise research on orphan drug , grant exclusivity for manufacturer and make it cheap to bring drug to market once they be develop , but clearly , when it come to glioblastomas , it have not have adequate success . I have be to see the MHRA numerous time and have ask about repurpose drug . many pharmaceutical company be worried about repurpose drug ; the fear be that if glioblastoma research be to affect the main cause for have the drug , that might make the drug less successful . we have beseech the MHRA to treat glioblastoma separately . would the hon . Lady support such a move ? I would of course support such a move , and I urge the Government to listen and take action . get it right on glioblastoma be vital . despite minor breakthrough , exciting innovation and apparently promise research lead , for this disease , there have simply not be the improvement in survival rate that most cancer have have . to put it bluntly , glioblastoma remain a death sentence — an increasingly common one . in the UK , cancer diagnosis have increase , but although there be some worry sub - theme , this trend be largely due to increase life expectancy . however , that be not the case with glioblastoma . in the past 30 year , rate in the UK have more than double . there have be far more of an uptick than be attributable to we all live long . More people be develop this disease , yet we have fail to make meaningful stride on treatment and cure , or even on give those with glioblastoma a little more time with those dearest to they . now be the moment to do something about that . I welcome the Bill . I welcome its emphasis on improve research — I have already touch on drug development — and the provision to facilitate clinical trial , because the grim reality be that for glioblastoma , those trial be hard to conduct . there be too few patient , and frequently their life expectancy be too limited . anything that can be do to connect eligible patient with researcher fast and with less friction be valuable . I emphasise that there be great opportunity in front of we for accelerate research and make broad advance in the battle against rare cancer . along with almost half my parliamentary colleague , I be proud to have pledge my support for the Lobular Moon Shot project , which advocate a boost of around £ 20 million over five year for research on the basic biology of invasive lobular breast cancer , with a view to develop new treatment . despite be the second most common form of breast cancer , lobular breast cancer be in many way treat like a rare cancer . it be under - research , difficult to diagnose through the standard screening mammogram , and often present few symptom than invasive ductal carcinoma , which make up the overwhelming majority of breast cancer incident . as the hon . Lady be explain very well , invasive lobular breast cancer be not class as a rare cancer . I be concerned that it would not come within the scope of this Bill , so I gently ask if it could be widen at the next stage . as she say , lobular breast cancer have many characteristic of a rare cancer . I thank the hon . gentleman for that intervention . yes , lobular breast cancer be treat in many way like a rare disease . I recently meet my constituent Kate , who be diagnose with lobular breast cancer in 2023 . she explain to I that because almost all breast cancer research be base on the ductal variant , woman like she be diagnose later and often receive treatment orient towards a cancer with a different biology from lobular cancer . those two factor result in high recurrence and low survival rate . Kate have be in remission for more than a year , and have become an advocate for research . on her behalf , I ask the Minister whether she have meet with the Lobular Moon Shot campaigner . what step be the Government take to increase research into the cancer ? what consideration have she give to update guideline for the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence to encourage the use of mri to diagnose lobular breast cancer early ? the moon shot idea be the right one . in fight cancer we should set ambitious goal , and we should innovate until we meet they . moreover , as the Apollo project show , research into seemingly narrow thing often have spillover effect , produce vast , unanticipated benefit . that be often true when it come to orphan drug . to take just one example , Gleevec have change the game , and not just for one rare form of leukaemia ; it be now use to treat a range of other cancer and condition . the british pharmaceutical development sector be exceptionally strong , and now be a moment of potential . on genome mapping , artificial intelligence , biotech , immunotherapy and cancer vaccine , the UK be in a position to transform and save life . I recognise the limited scope of the Bill , but I believe it to be vital . this House must take a keen interest in accelerate and incentivise research into rare cancer , include glioblastoma . this legislation meaningfully advance that goal . I will speak briefly about young people and child , and specifically a lovely girl call Maddie Cowey . at the age of 18 , Maddie be diagnose with an alveolar soft part sarcoma . Sarcoma be an uncommon cancer that can occur anywhere in the body . all cancer in someone of Maddie ' s age be consider rare , but in her case , the classification be ultra - rare . partly in consequence , it take five month for she to receive a diagnosis . Maddie have just start university . she recall that at the time it " feel like my life be fall apart . in many way it be and it do . it be a very lonely place . " Maddie be diagnose almost 10 year ago now . there be no approve treatment for Maddie ' s type of rare cancer , and she be undergo a clinical trial . it be likely that she will remain on treatment for life . Maddie be amazing ; she be brave and she will not let cancer define she . I bring up her story because cancer in young people be so uncommon that often it be diagnose later . neither medical professional nor young people expect it , but the later a diagnosis come , the more likely the cancer be to be lethal . what step be the Government take to ensure that the rare cancer afflict young people be catch early ? finally , I be remind of something that Emily Dickinson once write about hope : " I ' ve hear it in the chill land , and on the strange sea " . we must get this right . we must give sufferer hope . we owe that to Pip ' s family — his wife Claire and his five child — and to Nicola in the Gallery , and she and Ian ' s son Adam and Oliver , and to so many other who have suffer and who be here with we . I believe that we can . through you , Madam Deputy Speaker , I want to apologise to the young black man on the northern line tube from Colliers Wood this morning for have to spend his journey look at I sob my heart out . it must have be a very odd experience . I want to say to he , " I be not just sad ; I be angry . " I be angry at the NHS . I be angry at the MHRA . I be angry beyond belief at the National Institute for Health Research . it should be rename the national institute for something that do not do very much at great public expense . all these institution be bedevil by the desire to carry on do what they have always do . it do not get they sack . as the former Home Secretary John Reid — Lord Reid — constantly tell I , " Siobhan , nobody ever get sack for continue to do the same thing . you be only sack if you do something different . " my God , have this morning not tell we that we need to do something different ? we have the tool to do something different , but the people in position of power and responsibility choose not to . we have the good health system in the world for potential drug trial — a uniform system with well - train doctor , great scientist , great university and great hospital — but do we do they ? no . do we fail people every single day ? yes . do we threaten those doctor who try to do something different ? let I tell the House , groundbreake oncologist be look over their shoulder , wait for the regulator to come and get they when one of their colleague grass they up . that be the atmosphere in our intellectual and health service institution . I could feel sorry for myself and for my loss , but I do not want that ; I want thing to change . all of we , from all party , need to run fast and break thing , and provide a challenge to the people run our system . we have a drug repurposing project in the most universal health system in the world , so why be we not repurpose drug for people with rare cancer ? why be that not be do for glioblastoma ? why be it that in May , we will open a drug trial at University College London and University College London Hospitals trust in Margaret ' s memory to trial one such drug that have be in the system for year ? we organise a dinner with former Prime Minister Tony Blair ; some run marathon ; and other sell cake and scone in beautiful Cornwall village . do those thing give we a great deal , but why , under our system , do we have to do they ? why be it that the trial in May , under the amazing Paul Mulholland , will be base in only one trust ? it be because if we have negotiate with all the other hospital trust that be expert in this field , it would have take we two year to get start . why be we outstrip by Israel , Spain , America and any number of country ? it be because we can not get our act together to start a trial , as each hospital trust be argue about and seek to renegotiate every trial and every plan . this be not new . the issue be raise by Lord O ' Shaughnessy in his great report on clinical trial . that report be two year old , but we have make no progress . we make no progress under the former Conservative Government , and we have make no progress under our government . the £ 40 million give to the National Institute for Health and Care Research in 2017 for glioblastoma and brain cancer drug trial have not be spend . can any Member of the House explain to I how that be humanly possible ? do we not have drug that we could trial ? yes , of course we do . trial be not that complicated ; we can do they if we choose to . we have the doctor to do they . we need to want to change . I apologise to the Under - Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , my hon . friend the Member for West Lancashire ( Ashley Dalton ) , because when she come to talk to I in the Tea Room this morning , she get this at a very fast pace . I have now meet four wonderful cancer Ministers , two conservative and two labour . they have all be dedicate , and all want to sort this out , but we can not do this by edict , or by hope and wish . unless we change thing and unless , I dare say , some people be remove , it will never happen . all the institution I mention continue to exist because they do not do thing differently . someone diagnose with a glioblastoma will get the same treatment that they would have get 25 year ago . they will have their tumour remove . they will be delighted that it be go , but it be not go ; it be come back . they will be give eight week ' radiotherapy . it be brutal . it will help they for a while , but the tumour will come back . then they get give chemotherapy — the drug be temozolomide , which be approve at the beginning of the 2000 . it will help , but the tumour will come back . they have to be able to withstand that drug themselves . Margaret could not do that . by March , five month on from her diagnosis , she could not take it ; her kidney collapse . what happen then ? we have money and good friend . at this point , I would like publicly to thank Lord Waheed Alli for the kindness and friendship he show we through Margaret ' s journey . the treatment that he have experience from the press be absolutely appalling . he help we on our way . but what about somebody with no money who can not fundraise ? their life end at the chemotherapy . there be nothing on the NHS , but those lucky enough to have the money can find a way . I be really grateful that the brother - in - law of the hon . member for Esher and Walton ( Monica Harding ) be on the oncotherapy machine . my sister fundraise for that machine , because we have to go to Dusseldorf to have it , so we bring it here . it be great that he be receive much benefit from it . I know that many other people be , too . why be the NHS , which be so risk - averse that it will not allow slightly alternative therapy for cancer , happy for people who be really ill to get on a plane and go to a different country ? be it because it do not see what happen in another country , so that be okay ? I have tell the story of hold my sister ' s head as she be sick in a bucket in terminal 5 at Heathrow airport , of carry she on to a plane in the hope that the air stewardess would not see how she be , of lie next to she overnight hope that she would be alive in the morning , because what be I go to do in a hotel in Germany , where I could not speak that language ? that be my experience , but I be only one of thousand and thousand of people who do this every year , include child , because our system will not allow the use of novel treatment . why ? why can ' t we change thing ? why don ' t we get up every single day and want to cure something ? I do not know about other hon . member , but since I join the Labour party , and since I become an MP in 1997 , I have get up every day and hope that we could make thing well in some way . I do not understand why our system do not want to do the same thing . I want to understand , but it be beyond I . if there be drug that could cure or give long life to people with glioblastoma , why don ' t we trial they ? that be not beyond our ability . we have the money to do it . if we do not have the money , we will raise it . we just need the opportunity . I do not know why we do not have that wish to achieve . I be give some hope yesterday by the propose abolition of NHS England , because something need to change . I do not know whether that be the right or wrong thing to do , but we need to liberate people to do thing . let we face it : in the end , only people who be well motivated and willing to take a risk can change thing . beyond that , people will continue to die , will continue have to go to other country , will continue have to spend large amount of money . People not lucky enough to be in that position will just die prematurely . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh South West ( Dr Arthur ) for introduce the Bill and for the courtesy he have always show I , which must have be difficult at time as I sit shout at he in Portcullis House about how everything be useless and hopeless . in my calm moment , I understand that progress begin with small step . I be frustrate that those step be too small . I be delighted that there will be one database for trial , but if there be no trial , the database do not get we very far . we will have a report on the orphan drug Act in 18 month ' time . in that period , over 3 , 500 people will have be diagnose with a glioblastoma , and many of they will have die . why be it go to take we 18 month ? why can ' t we change thing now ? why , in spite of the huge support we have have for the Bill from the Secretary of State for Health , could we not get something much more fierce in it ? it be not a criticism ; it be an observation . I know progress begin slowly , and I be grateful for my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh South West take up the Bill and for have the calm demeanour that I lack , because I do not think the Whips would have accept anything that I would have come up with as a private Member ' s Bill . we need a revolutionary attitude . we either see and harness progress , or we come back next year , the year after and the year after that to ask why there have be no progress . all of we , individually and communally , need to dedicate ourselves to that progress and to keep ask the question , be angry and simply refuse to accept that nothing can be do . I thank the hon . member for Edinburgh South West ( Dr Arthur ) , for Mitcham and Morden ( Dame Siobhain McDonagh ) and for Birmingham Erdington ( Paulette Hamilton ) , because I have enjoy work with they on the Bill . we all have our own story . I should state my personal interest . my sister Georgie be sit in the Gallery . she be diagnose with a GBM — glioblastoma multiforme — nearly two year ago . I would like to say that she be alive and well , but let I just say that she be alive and she be do well . she have be brave , determined and an inspiration to we all . it be particularly painful as she be a mother of three , a wife , a daughter and a sister . we have a lot to focus on , and it be on we collectively . I will not rehash too much , and I will try to resist have a cry - f , but it might be difficult . our action , and what we do as a team , be what we will be judge on . I be go to throw it over to the labour side a little , because they be in government now and they have more power than we do in opposition . when we leave the Chamber today , I ask each Government MP to ask , " okay , what be we actually go to do ? " the talk in this Chamber be nice , but it be the action that count . I will pick up on two point . the first be the trial register . we have first - hand experience with Georgie of try to find what trial be out there . obviously , there be not enough trial ; we know that , and that be something we need to fix . also , match patient with trial be not rocket science — that be a basic thing . I would also encourage the Government , rather than just start from scratch and take month to reinvent the wheel , to find out what be go on in the private sector and what trial and register of people seek trial be already out there , and to build on that . if there be a partnership with some company , that be fine , but let we move quickly , because speed really count . the second point be about orphan drug regulation . a key trigger for I get into politic be Brexit . I think it be a disastrous idea , and I still do . I struggle to find any possible gain from Brexit , but there be one thing that we could do . the EU have regulation on orphan drug ; our could be more generous . we could pull research into the UK by give patent for a few extra year , which would encourage people to dig into the research in these critical area . I live in hope of that one potential gain . even if product be obtain , reimbursement have to be accessible on the NHS , which be far from certain . ensure that there be a robust , timely and accessible route to make these drug available on the NHS for patient really count . it be critical that that do not fall off the radar . also , we be really fall behind in the number of clinical researcher active in the UK today . if we want to get this research move , we must think about what we be do to get clinical researcher work hard in this space and in other , because we be not do a good enough job on that . that be all I will say . let I just return to my first point : we need action . it be good to have those in the Gallery here today . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh South West ( Dr Arthur ) for bring the Bill to the House , and join he in pay tribute to our hon . friend the Member for Mitcham and Morden ( Dame Siobhain McDonagh ) for her campaigning , and for her powerful speech call for a revolution in attitude . I also thank my hon . friend the Member for Calder Valley ( Josh Fenton - Glynn ) for his very moving speech . as somebody who lose a brother much too young , I be deeply move by his word . I have come here today to speak on behalf of my constituent , Katie Swinburne . she be a much - love school teacher — in fact , she be the school teacher of one of my staff — and a mother of three who be diagnose with invasive lobular breast cancer . as be mention a moment ago , lobular breast cancer be not class as a rare cancer — in fact , it be the second most common type of breast cancer in the world , with 8 , 500 diagnosis annually in the UK alone — but it share many characteristic of rare cancer in the sense that it be very difficult to detect . in Katie ' s case , as in many other , it do not initially form as a lump in the breast , for example . it have distinct genetic , so be not detectable in genetic test , and it be very easily miss in mammogram and ultrasound . as a consequence , many of the woman who get this form of cancer will not be diagnose until long after it have already spread . I be also tell — thankfully , Katie be watch today ; I receive a WhatsApp message from she a moment before speak — that a key point that I should make to the Minister be that , because lobular breast cancer present differently from other form of breast cancer and be not separate out in clinical trial , there be very little trial datum on it . I meet recently on Zoom with Katie and other who have be campaign for the moonshot . this be not a lot of money ; it be simply £ 20 million of funding that the University of Manchester could use to well understand the biological architecture of this type of cancer . that would lead to the possibility of develop the right treatment , because it currently have no specific treatment . this be a gentle request , really , that in the next stage of the Bill lobular breast cancer be consider alongside the rare cancer for which it already provide . I finish by pay tribute to Katie and all the many brave individual I have meet . I can not imagine what it be like to be young and have parenting responsibility and be diagnose with an advanced stage of cancer . many of those campaign know that they might not live to see the day when the well drug and treatment be available , but they be bravely take up this cause on behalf of those who come after they . Katie be bravely do a mile a day sponsor walk . my predecessor in this place join she on one of those mile , and although we disagree about many thing politically , we have already see today that this be a cause that unite , because there be little — in fact , there be nothing — more precious in life for any of we than time spend with the people we love . money can not buy that — nothing can buy that — and , as my hon . friend the Member for Mitcham and Morden make clear , the decision we make in this place can have a real impact in the life of other . I have to say , Madam Deputy Speaker , that as I be wait to speak , I be very pleased that you do not call I after the hon . member for Calder Valley ( Josh Fenton - Glynn ) because I do not think I would have be able to get through part of my speech so shortly after listen to his story ; he do really well . I be diagnose with breast cancer in 2008 , which be relatively unusual for a man , and the hard thing I ever have to do be tell my two daughter , who be 13 and 14 at the time , about my diagnosis . it be an experience that leave I wonder if our family of four be about to become a family of three . I have to explain to all of they that I would have an operation to remove a tumour and I might need another one . as thing turn out , my cancer have spread and I do need to have another operation . I also have to say that I would need chemotherapy and radiotherapy , and that that be go to take nine month out of our life — not just mine , but the life of my immediate family , my wide family and our friend . I consider myself very lucky that my treatment pathway be relatively clear , but that be not the case for many rare cancer . the reach of cancer be an evil that be grow across our society with nearly one in two of we project to get cancer in our lifetime , mean we all know someone close to we , whether family or friend , who will begin what can be a very traumatic journey . it be a fight that cause your life to be take completely out of your hand , and that leave family force to hear rarely use term like " malignant " or " metastasise " as if they be common expression , cloud the horror of medical jargon . it be with these word that I be proud to associate myself with the hon . member for Edinburgh South West ( Dr Arthur ) , and I congratulate he on his campaign that demand well for cancer patient and especially on bring forward the Rare Cancers Bill , because it be a powerful and necessary step forward to end the experience that I describe at the beginning of my speech . rare cancer be often under - research and the regulatory environment simply fail to cope with they . they have small patient population which make research and investment less appealing and an evidence base hard to achieve . where clinical trial be take place , patient often do not know very much about they . a Cancer52 survey of rare cancer patient find that 65 % cite not know about trial as the main barrier to access the trial in the first place . the Bill seek to rectify those flaw in our system , and I would like to highlight the power it contain to ensure that patient can get well access and find relevant clinical trial . as be highlight in the Teenage Cancer Trust ' s " improve young People ' s access to Cancer Clinical Trials " report , it be also difficult for the clinical trial lead themselves to find the necessary patient , mean that they struggle to recruit . both patient and researcher want to be in those clinical trial , but the system do not allow for that common - sense join up . I hope that as a result of the change make by the Bill , people in my constituency of Wokingham and across England will begin to see a shift towards prioritise rare cancer , because such a shift be long overdue . last week , I meet a constituent to discuss his wife ' s cancer . she have leiomyosarcoma , which have an incidence rate of six case per 1 million people annually in the UK . he explain to I that one of the potential treatment option for his wife be exploit fault in the BRCA2 gene through PARP inhibitor . however , with an estimate 30 new case of leiomyosarcoma every year and only three with the BRCA2 mutation , there be too few patient to allow for a sufficient clinical trial , and therefore NICE do not license those drug for that particular cancer . what be the Minister ' s view on effort within the European Union ' s life science industry to develop clear guidance to make cross - border clinical trial easy ? if that be to happen , it would address one of the major problem with rare cancer such as leiomyosarcoma . individual nation may not have a sufficient pool of patient to conduct a clinical trial , but multiple nation work together could . do the Minister see cross - nation trial as have great potential for development in oncology ? if the EU be to advance easy cross - border co - operation , would that be something that the United Kingdom could potentially negotiate its way into ? this be no time for a Government to be isolationist . my constituent also highlight that PARP inhibitor be available in the United States . what effort be the Minister make to ask that if drug be approve by the United States Food and Drug Administration , NICE have the opportunity to take the US evidence into account when consider whether to approve licence for drug in the UK ? sarcoma be just one tumour type that have poor survival outcome and limited treatment option . despite the investment by charity such as Sarcoma UK to fund research into new treatment , we do not know enough about the disease , because so few people be affect . other constituent have write in to share their experience of lose love one to brain tumour such as glioblastomas and to blood cancer . all have express hope that this Bill will create a world in which we can well encourage pharmaceutical company to run trial on rare cancer in order to create innovative new treatment , so that the pain they go through will not be a fate that other must endure in future . before I conclude , it would be a miss opportunity if I do not ask the Minister about the national cancer strategy , which will be so important in ensure that a long - term plan be in place to deliver well service for patient with rare and less common cancer . the NHS need to be prepare for the innovation of the future by prepare for an increase in demand for companion diagnostic . the turnaround time for exist test be already cause delay in optimal treatment . what step be the Minister take to ensure that there be enough capacity for the ever - increase demand for diagnostic test ? the national cancer strategy need to be thoroughly scrutinise before its final draft be publish , to ensure that the measure demand by cancer charity and patient group , and idea from by the life science sector , be properly cover . nhs performance must be measure regularly over the lifetime of the strategy to see if improvement be actually be make . will the Minister explain what accountability mechanism be be consider for the national cancer strategy ? I thank the hon . member for Edinburgh South West once again for bring the Bill to the House . I rise to support my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh South West ( Dr Arthur ) . I know he have put a huge amount of effort into bring the Bill before the House , in collaboration with many other , include patient , family , professional and charity . I send my condolence to he , his wife and family on the death of his father - in - law , and to Tilly ' s family . to lose a child be unbearable and against the natural order of thing . the Bill be much need and I welcome the opportunity to make some observation about it . before I do so , I refer to my hon . friend the Member for Calder Valley ( Josh Fenton - Glynn ) and his brother . I live in the area of Lunt that he refer to , where there be go to be a remarkable legacy for his brother : the area have be rewilde and there will be a forest there in due course , which be absolutely fantastic . I invite he and his family to come down — I will show they around and they can see the legacy that his brother have leave we . I also want to refer to comment make by the chief executive officer of the Brain Tumour Charity , Dr Michele Afif , about the context of the Bill and why it be before the House . in an online article last month , she write : " during my clinical career I be frequently move by the courage and determination of my patient and their family . " it behove all of we to support the endeavour of my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh South West to help those people who " don ' t have a voice " , as Dr Afif say , by give our unambiguous backing to what she call " a Bill of hope . " we must ensure that that hope be turn into reality : that be the job of every Member in the Chamber . we owe it to those affect by rare cancer to champion their need , treatment and life . the propose legislation would be a starting point — a first base . it will enable and facilitate the promotion of research into rare cancer and well access to clinical trial , as have be say , and initiate a review of marketing authorisation for so - call orphan product , which I will explore in more detail . it be devastating to have a cancer diagnosis . we all know family member who have be diagnose with one form or another . the shock and trauma that come with such news be hard to take in , as the hon . member for Wokingham ( Clive Jones ) say . but then to find out subsequently that the spectrum of intervention with medicine or other ally intervention be limited because of the rare nature of a particular cancer surely add to that distress and worry . as the hon . member for Esher and Walton ( Monica Harding ) and my hon . friend the Member for Mitcham and Morden ( Dame Siobhain McDonagh ) say , with glioblastoma , question inevitably sweep through the mind of those affect as to whether an appropriate medicinal intervention be available or even on the horizon . orphan product be those drug that be use to treat not only rare cancer but other rare disease . the pharmaceutical industry be reluctant to develop the drug because of the cost , time and effort when they will not be commercially productive , give the number of people who will use they . the fact that these potentially lifesaving , or life - change , drug be not produce leave a significant lacuna in the treatment option for those with rare cancer . although there be a public health need — of that there be absolutely no doubt — there be no resource to enable that lacuna to be fill . that resource should be make available . I be therefore pleased that clause 1 of the Bill will place a duty on the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care to undertake a review of the law relate to marketing authorisation for potential orphan medicine . I note that the Bill will require an assessment of regulatory approach in other country , which be also welcome . that be an excellent and much - need step in the right direction , link in with the other requirement in the Bill relate to research programme and initiative . it send a clear and unambiguous message to those affect and those who will be affect — that could be anybody in this Chamber and , as we have hear , it be some people in this Chamber — that the Government have hear what they have say and be not only listen to that message and that plea , but be take practical action to put it into effect , which be more than welcome . other country have introduce similar legislation in this respect . the provision in clause 1 ( 2 ) will help to form a more progressive , informed approach and its requirement will enable information , practice and protocol from other jurisdiction to be harvest . for example , Genetic Alliance UK point out that there be as many as 7 , 000 rare disease — possibly more — affect one in 17 people , with approve treatment available for only one in 20 rare disease more generally . although those be not significant cohort of people per se in a particular disease category , collectively million of people be affect in one fashion or another by a rare disease , include rare cancer — and it be no less the case for rare cancer : a disease be a disease , and those affect by it , whether it be rare or not , be entitle to equity of care and intervention . in this case , such potential intervention can not simply be leave to market arrangement . that be why it be important to facilitate a more comprehensive approach to the development of orphan medicine , which must be set against the context of , for example , a 2022 survey of 61 orphan medicine that receive EU approval between 2018 and 2021 . of those , 36 orphan medicine be make available in England , compare with 55 in Germany , 50 in Italy , 48 in France and 31 in Spain . while those medicine do not specifically relate to cancer , that help to contextualise the difference in number for orphan medicine . a research programme between 2020 and 2025 at the University of Sheffield , fund by the Wellcome Trust , indicate : " furthermore , only a third of EU authorise orphan drug be recommend by NICE … thus , the medical need of UK rare disease patient be potentially underserve compare to both the USA and EU . " indeed , the programme be call the Orphanisation project . clearly , as the university put it , there be a " major international debate … currently ongoing about how we might improve patient ' access to orphan drug , raise important question about how to value these medicine , and the ethic of resource allocation " . the project set out a path for be creative in progress the relatively new concept of orphanisation , " as a way of understand contemporary change in the biopharmaceutical sector . specifically , the project examine the extent to which orphanisation occur in the EU , UK , and USA " , and seek to understand how it be inform by " different technology , institution , and actor , address the implication for industry , health policy and patient " . I look forward to the progress that it will make . I believe that the proposal in the Bill will help . they follow through systemically and consistently to change that scenario for the well . international exploration and comparison be one method to inform decision maker about how they can be more proactive in facilitate access to medicine for those most in need of they , especially when the size and extent of the available medicinal range be limited . that be often the case with the rare cancer we be talk about , and rare disease more generally . once again , I thank my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh South West for enable the House to debate this issue and for the opportunity to tease out many of the issue affect our constituent and , as I refer to early , to discuss crucial lifesaving and life - enhance treatment for disease more generally . I again pay tribute to all those colleague who have bring their story and their experience to we today , include my hon . friend the Members for Calder Valley and for Mitcham and Morden , the hon . member for Wokingham and for Witney ( Charlie Maynard ) and other . they deserve our admiration and thank , but more importantly , they need our support to get the job do . that point have be make by so many . such exposition , however painful for the Members concerned , bring home the real need for this House to act on this issue , which be literally a matter of life and death . finally , I look forward to see the Bill progress through the House in the come week , as no doubt do many other . I thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for your indulgence . I be here today to support the Rare Cancers Bill , a vital piece of legislation introduce by our hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh South West ( Dr Arthur ) . I begin by pay tribute to his father - in - law and all those who have share their story here today . my hon . friend ' s story , like so many , be a stark reminder of how aggressive and under - research cancer can be , leave patient with little or no hope . it be assume that rare cancer , as have be mention today , affect a low number of people , but that be not the case . Cancer Research UK say that rare and less common cancer account for 47 % of all UK cancer diagnosis and 55 % of all cancer - relate death . some 82 % of rare cancer patient be never even consult about join a clinical trial . that mean that while each individual rare cancer may affect relatively few people , together they make up almost half of cancer case , yet the funding and research remain disproportionately low . I will briefly mention Charlie Shrager , one of my constituent in Gravesham . like so many , she be fight cholangiocarcinoma , or bile duct cancer . it be a supposedly rare but devastating form of liver cancer , and there be rise incidence . in 2001 , 2 . 9 out of 100 , 000 people be diagnose with it . in 2018 , it be 4 . 6 . some 79 % of these patient be diagnose at stage 3 or stage 4 , mean that their likelihood of survival be limited . Histotripsy be a non - invasive treatment that use sonic beam therapy . it be incredible . the problem be that we do not have a machine in the UK . they cost £ 10 million , and let we get one here , because for people face this disease or pancreatic cancer , it be a lifesaver , and they desperately need it . as Charlie put it : " I be lucky enough to afford treatment abroad , but I know many who aren ' t . they don ' t have that option . why should their chance depend on their bank balance ? " we must recognise that " rare " do not mean " insignificant " . People across the UK be battle cancer that remain underfunded , under - research and underserve by clinical trial , which be criminal . it be a pattern that be repeat again and again with bile duct cancer , glioblastoma , leiomyosarcoma — a rare soft tissue cancer that demand personalise medicine — pancreatic cancer and blood cancer . each of these cancer devastate live . we have discuss what the Bill can do : appoint a national specialty lead for rare cancer , review and improve the UK ' s orphan drug regulation , and improve data sharing . as a research scientist in biochemistry , I work on neglect infectious disease and come across the drug for Neglected Diseases initiative . it be launch 25 year ago to co - ordinate research outcome , negotiate with big pharma and test drug that have be develop for other neglect disease , and it be now eliminate disease across the globe . it can be do — we have the blueprint — so I urge the Minister to reach out to that initiative to see what we can learn and implement here . for too long , rare and neglect cancer have mean a rare chance of survival , and that must change . give the strength of feeling among everybody here , there be the will to bring about change . I look forward to see the Bill go forward , and to see that people be not leave behind and that we find a cure for everybody . we have already hear so much move and powerful testimony in this debate , but despite the tragic impact that rare cancer have on people across the UK , they garner too little attention , be under - research and lack investment in their treatment . though cancer survival rate rise by nearly 10 % between 2005 and 2020 , rare cancer still have some of the low survival rate , leave too many people without hope . I thank the hon . member for Edinburgh South West ( Dr Arthur ) for introduce this Bill . I will argue in favour of it today , use three example : first , the story of a constituent suffering from a rare cancer ; secondly , the importance of this Bill for extremely rare cancer ; and , lastly , its importance for future research . there be many rare form of cancer that individual suffer , often without specialised treatment or public awareness , but every rare cancer patient have a name and a story . take that of a constituent I recently meet in Parliament at an event for World Cancer Day , who suffer from t - cell large granular lymphocytic leukaemia . although the five - year survival rate for leukaemia currently stand at 55 % , the figure for acute myeloid leukaemia , a rare and aggressive form , be one of the low of all cancer . it have a 22 % survival rate beyond five year after diagnosis . this mean that , sadly , nearly 80 % of those diagnose with AML today will not survive until the end of this Parliament . Surgery be not a viable treatment option for those diagnose with leukaemia , so such patient often depend on the discovery of new and innovative treatment to survive the disease . though every cancer have a name and a story , some be so rare that there be little representation of they , even in debate like this . that bring I to my second example : composite hemangioendothelioma , or CHE . it be first medically identify in only 2006 , and by 2022 have few than 60 case report in English - language literature . because of its rarity , it be hard to treat and garner little attention from company that could develop treatment . however , those affect by CHE have name , family and story . hopefully , my mention CHE in this debate may , in a small way , help raise awareness of its existence . this Bill will assist we in this matter , as it will result in the appointment of a name person who be responsible for oversee the delivery of research into rare cancer treatment . that will facilitate some political accountability for rare cancer research and encourage an ecosystem that can hopefully lead to future treatment for , or at least more attention to , even some of the rare cancer , such as CHE . talk of treatment , early this week , I meet a constituent who be a researcher at the University of Glasgow . she be in Parliament for the STEM for Britain exhibition . we discuss her research on a novel approach to treat osteosarcoma . although it be the most common primary bone cancer , only 160 people be diagnose with osteosarcoma each year in the UK — few than three people in every 1 million of the population — make it a rare cancer under the Bill . current treatment lack specificity in target the tumour and often have unwanted side effect . my constituent ' s research look at the potential use of small molecule to create a more effective and non - invasive treatment for osteosarcoma . the Bill ' s support for information sharing in the research registry system will help researcher like my constituent . it will help with research and clinical trial by give researcher great access to the patient population with rare cancer like osteosarcoma . a patient survey in 2024 find that 82 % of those with a rare or less common cancer be not offer a clinical trial . that be why the Bill be important . the Bill will help to foster an environment in which there can be more research and clinical trial on rare cancer such as osteosarcoma . for patient like my constituent suffering from t - cell large granular lymphocytic leukaemia , for those diagnose with the least - understand cancer , and for the researcher try to find new treatment , the Bill represent a commitment to the fight against rare cancer . I therefore urge the House to support my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh South West and the Bill today . those of we who have lose a friend or a family member to cancer will no doubt have hear they describe — often , I think , somewhat unhelpfully — as courageous , but this morning we witness the most courageous exposition I have ever hear in my life from my hon . friend the Member for Calder Valley ( Josh Fenton - Glynn ) . I thank he for the privilege of allow we to listen to his love tribute to his brother . we also hear from a number of member , include the hon . member for Kingswinford and South Staffordshire ( Mike Wood ) , and for Witney ( Charlie Maynard ) , and , most forcefully , my hon . friend the Member for Mitcham and Morden ( Dame Siobhain McDonagh ) , about the pressure of time , and the urgent need to do something to find a cure or treatment for rare cancer . we have hear a number of move speech this morning , but I will allow hon . member to relax and recharge their emotional battery a little bit , because I will address the issue of time , and the practical consideration of how we can turn drug discovery into treatment as speedily as possible . to do that , I will lift the lid on our drug supply chain and set out the vital role that the NHS can play in it . there be lesson we can learn from the covid pandemic when it come to the drug supply chain . we very quickly develop a vaccine in the UK , in Oxford , but we see quite quickly that the vaccine be worth nothing until it be in the arm of the population . get that do require a big effort , include in industry . as we hear from my hon . friend the Member for Gravesham ( Dr Sullivan ) , industry be also important . the Fujifilm factory in Billingham in my constituency manufacture one of the covid vaccine , and it will shortly turn Billingham into the large biopharmaceutical manufacturing centre in the UK . when it be make the vaccine , it find that it have a big problem . this bring into play another town , just up the River Tees from Billingham , in the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Bishop Auckland ( Sam Rushworth ) . member may have hear of it — it become famous for a particular reason during the pandemic — but they may not be sight on the reason why I will talk about it , which have more to do with glass than glass . Barnard Castle be home to GlaxoSmithKline , which bottle the vaccine . there be , at the time , a global shortage of bottle for vaccine , and in the UK we have only one glass manufacturer capable of do that job , although soon there will be another in St Helens . hopefully , after that little overview , member can sense that there be a big industrial supply chain issue that we need to address before we can get treatment to the people who need they most . in fact , there be a number of researcher work on this area . I be sure that when we think of research into rare cancer , we think of people in white coat and laboratory in place like Oxford , Cambridge and Imperial , but I urge we to also think about the process operator in Billingham , the bottle filler in Barnard Castle and the furnace operator in place like Glass Futures in St Helens , who be also work hard on research project to deliver those treatment . the second issue that I would like we to consider be the role that the NHS can and must play . I want to see a transformatively different approach from the NHS in this area . a month ago in Parliament , I meet representative of Pancreatic Cancer UK , which I know support the Bill . they talk to I about pancreatic enzyme replacement therapy , which be a treatment for pancreatic cancer , and about the difficulty in source sufficient quantity of treatment . we all know from our constituency surgery that there be the same issue with common drug ; people suffer with other condition and people who have child with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder and so on be struggle to get the drug that they need . part of the issue be that we rely so much on import . we could be manufacture these product in the UK . the NHS be the single big purchaser of drug in the world ; it have the market power to demand that production be centre in the UK . that would bring clear economic benefit to the UK , but it would also shorten cycle time for innovation , because the researcher and the manufacturer would be close to one another , and it would ensure security of supply in the UK . it would mean that we could be proud of manufacture drug that help to treat people around the world . it would also fit in with our industrial strategy . my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care be talk only yesterday about the importance of life science to our industrial strategy , and about their create british job in research and in factory . I very much thank my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh South West ( Dr Arthur ) for introduce the Bill . he describe his father - in - law as a dignified man ; my hon . Friend give an incredibly dignified speech , and I be sure that his father - in - law will be very proud . we look forward to the day when people who suffer from rare cancer be not offer such treatment as breathe into a brown paper bag , as my hon . friend describe , or take a paracetamol , as my hon . friend the Member for South Shields ( Mrs Lewell - Buck ) describe . instead , we should use the power of our NHS and the efficiency of our UK supply chain to turn discovery into drug , and trial into lifesave treatment . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh South West ( Dr Arthur ) for introduce the Bill . I remember the day my dad be diagnose with terminal cancer . I remember my mum and dad pick I up off the floor . I be suppose to be support they , but that do not happen that day . Dr Lau at Blackpool Victoria hospital explain that my dad ' s cancer be terminal . my dad be initially give chemotherapy to try to shrink the tumour and give we more time . later , he be ask to take part in a trial use immunotherapy . it be explain that the immune system do not recognise cancer as alien and as a threat . immunotherapy teach the immune system to recognise cancer , and enable the body ' s immune system to fight back . my dad be a fighter and he be willing to try anything . his body struggle with chemotherapy , and after we nearly lose he twice in 12 month it be stop , but the immunotherapy continue . he finish the course without any complication . once my dad start the treatment , the cancer — there be many — never move . to this day , we do not know whether the treatment cure he and he be leave with just scar tissue , or whether the cancer lie dormant . what I can tell the House be that my dad do not die of cancer ; it be something else that take he from we . my family believe that we be give an extra three year of love and be love by my lovely dad because of immunotherapy . we will always be grateful for the Christmas day , the birthday , the celebration and sometimes the tear that we be all able to share with my wonderful , care dad . People with rare cancer deserve the funding and research trial that the Bill will initiate . they should have the chance of life that my dad be give . that start with ensure that patient can get well access to clinical trial . many people miss out on potentially life - extend trial because there be just not as much information out there as there need to be . recent research have find that 82 % of respondent with a less common or rare cancer be not offer an opportunity to be part of a clinical trial . that have to change , and the Bill would achieve that . I support the Bill , because everyone diagnose with cancer should be give every chance of survival . without the Bill , people with rare cancer will die soon than other cancer patient , not have be give the chance to fight this terrible disease . I speak for they , so that they can have the chance that be award to my dad . I thank Dr Lau , my dad ' s consultant , for give an 81 - year - old man the precious gift of life for a few year long . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh South West ( Dr Arthur ) for introduce the Bill . it may be the most repeat phrase in the Chamber , but politics be about choice and he , have rank so highly in the private Member ' s Bill ballot — an early accolade in this Parliament — choose a Bill that would put patient suffer from a rare cancer and their family high up on the list of priority . as my hon . friend the Member for Calder Valley ( Josh Fenton - Glynn ) so movingly put it , I hope that , in time , the Bill will mean that in some instance , my constituent in Falkirk and family across the United Kingdom will get precious extra hour , day , week and year to spend with our love one . every Member of the House and every constituent I have speak to about this have a story of a love one who have suffer through the heartbreaking cruelty of a cancer diagnosis . I lose two of my grandparent in their early 60 . I still remember the seven year of my life that I spend with my grandad Robin . we find plenty of time to exchange robust view on football , and I be sure that if he have more time with we , we would today be exchange view on life and politic , too . he be lucky , though , to meet all four of his grandchild , thank to the immense care he receive from his doctor and the support he get from his family . I remember my granny Janet , who pass away in 2012 after a 10 - month battle with a brain tumour . I remember most fondly she fuss over everyone in the house to make sure they have absolutely everything they need at all time . I remember hold her hand in Strathcarron hospice , where she have volunteer for a number of year , and where she receive care in her final day . one thing I have draw from those experience be the value of our NHS and hospice staff to those who have cancer and their family . those staff , day in , day out , take the bad part of life and allow we to endure they . we should arm they with the good possible tool for treat illness and disease . statistically , half of we in the Chamber will have to comprehend our own diagnosis of some type of cancer . the definition of " rare cancer " be , for the purpose of the Bill , one that affect few than one in 2 , 000 people . we must acknowledge that active intervention be require to ensure that research , treatment and clinical pathway for those cancer have parity with other cancer research . as have be mention , rare cancer account for about 47 % of all cancer diagnosis . I will go through the Bill and each of its clause to show why I support it . clause 1 and the statutory requirement for a review relate to orphan medicine will be an essential step to gain a comprehensive understanding of the availability of medicine and how they can well be calibrate towards new treatment and new research . the comparative approach that the Bill put forward for the review acknowledge that while we have a proud history of world - class research , other country have be able to make substantial stride in this area in recent year when we have not . in the last six year , the UK have drop from be rank second for the availability of orphan medicine — behind only Germany — to England be 10th and Scotland be 13th among european country . that do not necessarily look like regression , but it potentially expose stagnation in advance research that would benefit those suffering from a rare cancer . the british pharmaceutical industry have state that it be increasingly challenging to develop medicine for rare disease in this country , cite , among other thing , the low prospect of NHS reimbursement for rare disease medicine . clause 2 give the Secretary of State a duty to promote research on rare cancer , ensure that patient can be easily contact about such research , and ensure appropriate oversight of rare cancer . that be a progressive move , as the duty to promote research will write into law that any Health Secretary must take a proactive approach to maintain and promote rare cancer research . it embed in the Government ' s job description a duty to ensure that ease of contact be properly facilitate , and that there be appropriate oversight . the Bill be not overreach when it say that strategic co - ordination be key . the appointment of a national speciality lead for rare cancer will put into law the requirement for a champion who can cut through any silos that exist , or that start to develop as the Bill take effect . clause 3 be a critical part of the framework . it will aid the building of a robust evidential basis for clinical trial by make a bespoke register for those with a rare cancer . the sharing of information from the national disease registration service by the NHS with the NIHR ' s " be Part of Research " registry , so that patient can be identify and contact , will improve an issue that have come up several time when I have speak to organisation in this space : there be not enough people available for clinical trial for rare cancer . correspondingly , as have be mention by other member , clearly there be a substantial barrier at the patient end . Cancer52 find that 82 % of those with a rare cancer have not be offer a clinical trial . that evidence the clear case for the change propose in the Bill . with rapid advance in cancer treatment , there be a massive opportunity to take step forward in increase survivability after diagnosis . for all these new treatment to be effective , there need to be correspond clinical trial . currently , connect those with a rare cancer to clinical researcher involve an amount of luck that the information about the trial will make its way to the patient or that they will be aware of a clinical trial . organise the register so that clinical trial can get in touch with patient will simplify and improve the efficiency and efficacy of the system , save time and increase the chance of successful trial . I give the Bill my full support . I start by thank my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh South West ( Dr Arthur ) for raise this deeply important issue . I know that I speak for everyone here in find his word about his father - in - law , and the story of Kira , very moving . I join he in welcome Kira ' s family . I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Mitcham and Morden ( Dame Siobhain McDonagh ) for her campaign on this issue — her sister would be very proud of she . I also pay tribute to everyone who have speak , for both their bravery and the immense bravery of their constituent and their family member . I particularly want to recognise the hon . member for Kingswinford and South Staffordshire ( Mike Wood ) and the story of Dan , the hon . member for Esher and Walton ( Monica Harding ) , my hon . friend the Member for Blackpool North and Fleetwood ( Lorraine Beavers ) for her powerful speech about her father , and my hon . friend the Member for Falkirk ( Euan Stainbank ) for his speech about his grandparent . I give a special mention to my hon . friend the Member for Calder Valley ( Josh Fenton - Glynn ) ; I be so sorry that I do not get a chance to meet his brother Alex . he sound like a phenomenal human being . I be so sorry for my hon . friend ' s loss , but I know that his brother would be very proud of he . my heart go out to those who have share their story . I thank they for their bravery . as so many story show , the term " rare cancer " be misleading . the cancer we class as rare in total account for almost half of all cancer diagnosis each year , and as have be mention , tragically they account for over half — 55 % — of all cancer death . give that , on average , one in two of we develop some form of cancer in our lifetime , the chance of experience one of these so - call rare or less common cancer , or see they diagnose in a love one , be far high than the term suggest . in the come year , 182 , 000 people will be diagnose with these type of cancer — equivalent to the population of a city the size of Swindon . sadly , 92 , 000 people will lose their life as a result — the population of a city the size of Chester . behind each one of those tragic statistic lie a story of family bereave ; of mother , father , sister , brother and child lose , and of life tear apart . that be bring home to I when I visit Chai Cancer Care in my constituency to hear the story of many people battle to live with cancer . their bravery be inspiring and they need our help now . I commend the Government ' s work to improve cancer outcome for all . last month they launch the call for evidence to inform the development of a national cancer plan , and I hope that we can pass the Bill to support those effort . illness classify as rare or less common be among some of the very cruell . the Bill seek to address some of the fundamental reason why diagnosis of a comparatively rare form of cancer can leave patient with a disproportionately low chance of make a full recovery . for a start , rare cancer be hard to diagnose . there be many reason for that . some of the more common cancer have screen programme , which mean that many people be diagnose before they have symptom . sadly , that be much less common in the case of rare cancer . additionally , doctor see the symptom of common cancer more frequently , and so be more likely to spot they . also , currently , 82 % of patient with a rare or less common form of cancer be not offer a clinical trial . the Bill will seek to reduce the knowledge gap on rare cancer , propose a national specialty lead for rare cancer to advise on research design and facilitate collaboration in rare cancer research , and a specific rare cancer registry to share information to improve the recruitment of participant for rare cancer clinical trial . however , although we need to incentivise research , it be not the only barrier that we face to improve rare cancer outcome . the comparatively low occurrence of many rare cancer mean that , although drug to combat they often exist , for economic reason they be not develop by the pharma industry , despite the pressing and urgent need for they . these orphan drug have the potential not only to save thousand of life but to provide hundred and thousand of family with that most valuable thing , to which my hon . friend the Member for Calder Valley refer : more time with their love one . under normal market condition , pharma company may be unwilling to invest in the research and development of new treatment for disease that affect few people than the most common form of cancer . the figure be stark : five of the six less survivable cancer receive only 17 % of the research funding for more survivable cancer . by propose that the Secretary of State will be require to review the current law on marketing authorisation for these orphan drug , and by place a duty on Government to support research and innovation far , the Bill would go a long way to achieve something that many of we would view as common sense : incentivise the production of these medical product and put they to use where they be so badly need in the diagnosis , prevention and treatment of cancer . I also pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh South West and his team for the work they have do to improve the power of collaboration among member of Parliament , the charity sector and patient advocate . draw on medical expertise and live experience , their diligence in bring about the Bill be bear out by the widespread support it have gather across the House . accord to Pancreatic Cancer UK , the Bill have the potential to transform survival for rare cancer by encourage a great focus and drive to research , and the Brain Tumour Charity have also praise it . I know from my own experience , talk to constituent in Hendon and visit hospital such as the Royal Free , just how crucial one word can be : hope . cancer be one of the defining health issue of our time , cause the death of 460 people in this country every single day . we know there be no silver bullet . we must fight cancer on all front , from research to prevention to diagnosis to treatment , and I know the Government be wholly commit to do that . thank to huge oncological step forward in recent year , outlook for cancer patient have improve dramatically . we have reach the milestone of more than 50 % of people diagnose with cancer in England and Wales now survive their disease for 10 year or more , yet this number fall sharply for many of the rare cancer we have talk about today . we must recognise — as this Bill do — where the shortfall be in our share knowledge and the resource we put into the rarer form of this disease . we have a duty to put this right . we must ensure that those suffer from rare and less common form of cancer , and those yet to be diagnose , have as much cause for hope as possible . I support this Bill . I start by thank my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh South West ( Dr Arthur ) for bring forward this important Bill . I thank the many other member from across the House who have contribute so movingly today , and my constituent who reach out to I to share their view . I will try to keep my contribution brief , because I know other will want to speak . in particular , I would like to thank Maria and her daughter Lauren , who tell I about Maria ' s journey and her fight against leiomyosarcoma — I be the second person today to struggle to pronounce that word — and how that diagnosis , during the covid lockdown , turn her life upside down . navigate the pandemic be hard enough ; navigate it while one of the people you love most in the world be suffer with cancer must have be nearly impossible . Maria be still live with leiomyosarcoma and have chemotherapy once a month . as she and her daughter tell I , live with cancer be tough enough ; when it be a rare cancer , patient live with the fear that the disease will act quick than the research make progress . that be why this Bill be so important . we need to close the gap in the treatment so that more people diagnose with rare cancer have the same chance of survival as those with other cancer . another constituent of mine know the cost of that all too well . he have ask I not to share his or his wife ' s name , but instead to tell her story . she pass away last year after be diagnose with leiomyosarcoma . despite the good effort of the oncology unit , the rarity of the cancer mean that it take too long to identify her condition . a year of chemotherapy follow , sadly to no avail . although I have two example of leiomyosarcoma in my constituency , it be incredibly rare . one challenge of that cancer be its genetic variability and the fact that it have many different subtype . personalised medicine be particularly important for rare cancer with different subtype , but because of the small number of patient with leiomyosarcoma , it be extremely difficult , if not impossible , to run robust clinical trial . research be possible , however , and great stride be be make in the US , show that well treatment and outcome be possible . it be vital that we incentivise research of and investment into the treatment of rare cancer and begin to close that gap . I thank my hon . friend again for introduce this important debate and the Bill . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh South West ( Dr Arthur ) for introduce the Bill . he have channel his personal experience , and that of his family , to produce a vital piece of legislation . I hope that he succeed in drive change on this issue . he certainly have my support and that of all member of the House . it be on day like this that I call member of Parliament from across the House my hon . friend rather than hon . member . this cause certainly unite we . I know from read email from my Telford constituent that they be fully behind the Bill . I join my hon . friend in pay tribute to the many people who have tell the story of love one in their family and community — they be far braver than I . next Thursday , I will be a bearer at the funeral of a woman who be very special in my life . I be not quite brave enough to tell her story today , but maybe one day I will . I have hear about devastating impact from a number of constituent who have contact I to share their story . I hear from one constituent about the mother of his three teenage child . she be in her 40 and battle terminal pancreatic cancer after a late diagnosis . among those story , a familiar theme arise : condition such as pancreatic cancer be be diagnose too late and there be no available treatment . my constituent ' love one be give just month to live . I focus on pancreatic cancer because it be an example of the scandal of rare cancer treatment . it be class as a rare cancer by the Bill because it affect few than one person in every 2 , 000 . every year , one in every 6 , 000 people be diagnose with pancreatic cancer , and half of they die within three month . there be roughly 107 , 000 people in Telford , which mean that 18 of my constituent will be diagnose with that awful cancer each and every year , and nine of they will die within three month of diagnosis . that be absolutely shocking . I owe it to those 18 people in my constituency to speak up in the Chamber and demand drastic change . it be easy to see how this problem can arise , although that do not make it any less galling . in a healthcare system under strain that be fail cancer patient in particular — last year , UK cancer survival rate be 25 year behind some other european country — decision - maker might be face with a Sophie ' s choice : the unenviable task of prioritise cancer treatment . when resource be scarce , the treatment that will save the most people be prioritise , but that be no consolation to the 47 % of patient in the UK whose cancer be rare and less common . an even more damning statistic be that sufferer of rare and less common cancer make up the majority of cancer death , as we have hear — 55 % . clearly , that be not sustainable , fair or just . we can not let a single cancer patient slip through the crack in our healthcare service , let alone 90 , 000 people each and every year . all too often , people in my constituency and across the country will , as we have hear , rally around to raise money for their love one — their child — to receive treatment . on one level , that be amazing to see , but on another , it be depress that that have to be do in order for people to access lifesave treatment . the Bill be about acknowledge that we can do well . the treatment of rare cancer patient be a scandal — not in the sense that any one individual be liable or culpable , but because the system as a whole have let ten of thousand of cancer patient down . to the healthcare and research sector , we say , " you must do well , we want you to do well , and we will work alongside you to do well . " the Bill be a welcome first step in do that . I urge the Government to be bold . this cohort of member of Parliament and Ministers can do a lot on this agenda . we talk a lot in this place about hope and change . well , goodness I — what well example be there than this Bill of provide hope and change to million of people across our country ? let ' s make cancer history . there be hardly a family in the UK who have not be touch by cancer in some way — this morning ' s debate have show how much we reflect the population — and the feeling of fear , anxiety and heartbreak that come with it . but for those diagnose with a rare cancer , the challenge be even great : delay diagnosis , few treatment option and the shocking lack of research , which mean that these patient and their family be often leave in the dark . I be glad that we be unite in say that that have to change . I be so proud to support the Bill introduce by my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh South West ( Dr Arthur ) — I think I possibly work with his father - in - law at Bell Baxter many year ago — because we now have the chance to turn the tide and focus on people with rare cancer . we have talk a lot about the statistic . rare cancer still do not get the same investment in research or access to clinical trial as common cancer . as a result , survival rate for some of the least survivable cancer , like pancreatic cancer , brain cancer and stomach cancer , be stick at just 16 % , which be not good enough . seven week ago , I lose my dad . More time have now pass since his death than the time we have between his diagnosis and his passing . the grief be still exceptionally raw . I pay tribute to my hon . friend ' s dad . he would be extremely proud of she , and of the speech that she be make . I thank my hon . friend for that intervention . the Brain Tumour Charity and Brain Tumour Research have highlight time and again that just 1 % of national cancer research funding go towards brain tumour , despite their be the big cancer killer of child and adult under 40 . that be totally unacceptable . People who be deal with these devastating diagnosis need more than word ; they need real investment in clinical trial and well pathway to diagnosis . the Bill be about fairness — it be about tackle the lack of funding , the difficulty in get patient into research , and the absence of clear Government leadership in this area . People miss out on life - change trial because they simply do not know that they exist . my hon . friend the Member for Mitcham and Morden ( Dame Siobhain McDonagh ) talk about have a universal system in this country . we also have one of the most siloe system . People in one part of the system often do not know what be go on in other part , and we need that to stop . we have talk a lot about the approach in place like the United States , where targeted policy have lead to surge in new treatment for rare cancer . but we also need to recognise what else be go on in the United States : a raft of executive order from the White House be put high education and current clinical trial into a tailspin . I want to pay tribute to the people who have help I a lot over the last few week , in particular my hon . friend the Member for Mitcham and Morden . she talk about be angry . I just remember that anger be a natural stage of grief , but it be also a massive driver for change and for get thing do . I be not at the angry stage just yet , but I will be at some point , and when I get there I will certainly be join my hon . friend ; it be something we all get . somebody say to I many year ago that the great gift that any of we can give be the gift of time . no matter our political difference on other thing , we have a chance today to give other the gift of time and to make sure no other family have to experience what we have have to go through . please pass this Bill . thank you . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh South West ( Dr Arthur ) for bring forward this important Bill and for his tireless work in champion the need for a great focus on research into rare cancer . have work as a district nurse for over 25 year , I have see time and again the devastation cancer bring , not just to those diagnose but to their family , friend and community . the harsh reality be that one in two of we will face cancer at some point in our life ; it be an issue that touch all of we in some way . while we have make significant stride in cancer treatment and survival rate , progress have not be equal . some cancer , like the rarer , less survivable cancer , have be unjustly leave behind . cancer such as pancreatic , oesophageal , liver , brain and stomach still face staggeringly low survival rate . currently , the least survivable cancer have a five - year survival rate of just 16 % , compare with 55 % for all other cancer . this disparity be not just a statistic ; it be a failure in our service and the way these cancer be research , which have cost life , shattered family and leave too many of we without hope . a key driver of this have be the chronic underfunding and lack of focus on research into these cancer , which have mean that we lack test and the tool and treatment need to give people a fighting chance . the consequence of this neglect be devastating . this issue be deeply personal to I . I have lose love one to pancreatic cancer , a disease that steal live with ruthless efficiency . I lose my good friend , a woman full of life and love , to this cruel illness . she endure month of uncertainty before finally receive a diagnosis in August , only to pass away shortly after . her story be of delay diagnosis , miss opportunity and a system that fail she . sadly , her story be not unique . I find it truly shock that in 2025 , more than half of those diagnose with pancreatic cancer will die within three month and only 7 % will survive . pancreatic cancer be the fifth big cancer killer in the UK but receive only 3 % of the UK cancer research budget . this lack of investment have mean we be not see the treatment breakthrough that have transform outcome for other type of cancer . it do not have to be this way . we know that sustained research funding and strategic focus from the Government can dramatically improve survival rate — we have see it work for other cancer . I particularly welcome the Bill ' s proposal to nominate a name lead to focus on these rare cancer , ensure that they be no long overlook , as well as its provision to give people a well opportunity to take part in innovative , cut - edge trial . that be why I support the Bill . the Rare Cancers Bill offer a road map to bring real - life , lifesave change to those diagnose with life - threaten disease . it be not just about policy , but about people ; it be about give hope to those who have be leave behind . as chair of the all - party parliamentary group on the less survivable cancer and vice - chair of the Health and Social Care Committee , I firmly believe that through the provision of this Bill , we can start — I say start — to bring forward access to innovative treatment that could turn the tide . I say to member of this House , " let we be bold . let we make a difference . let we ensure that future generation have a well chance of survival than those who come before they . let we send a clear message to patient and their family that they be not forget . this be our moment to make a lasting impact — let we make it count . let we support this Bill . " I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh South West ( Dr Arthur ) for introduce the Bill and for his work in bring about this necessary debate on rare cancer . I also pay tribute to all member who have speak today , but particularly to my hon . friend the Member for Calder Valley ( Josh Fenton - Glynn ) for his heartbreaking tribute to his brother . like too many across this House and throughout the United Kingdom , I have be on the receive end of the devastating news that a love one have be diagnose with cancer , but when that cancer be define as rare , it be infinitely more terrifying , when confront with the reality that there be a lack of funding and research dedicate to those cancer . I therefore welcome the three step in the Bill to encourage further research into rare cancer . I welcome the fact that it will place a duty on the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care to facilitate or otherwise promote research into rare cancer . the Bill will ensure that appropriate arrangement be in place for patient to be easily contact about research opportunity and clinical trial , and will also ensure that there be adequate oversight of research delivery for rare cancer . I also pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Mitcham and Morden ( Dame Siobhain McDonagh ) for her dedication in bring glioblastoma and other type of brain cancer to the forefront of the political debate . I would like to mention the all - party parliamentary group on brain tumour and its work to raise awareness of the issue face the brain tumour community . I have see at first hand how devastating glioblastoma can be : my dear friend and constituent , Ann and Richard Lucas , lose their son Fionn in 2022 . fionn be diagnose with glioblastoma age 58 in June 2022 , and his cancer leave he with a very short time to live — he die two month later . the Lucas family have support the work of the Brain Tumour Charity to help find new treatment , offer the high level of support and drive urgent change , give the charity ' s aim of save and improve life and carry out research into brain tumour globally . Glioblastomas be fast - grow brain tumour . they be the most common type of cancerous malignant brain tumour in adult , yet as have be say , there be still a lack of funding . of the 54 % of research that be specifically about rare cancer , only 16 % be focus on brain and nervous system cancer . I therefore welcome this Bill , thank my hon . friend the Members for Edinburgh South West and for Mitcham and Morden , and place on record my support for the aim of the Bill — to support research , and to support those impact by rare cancer . I will try to keep my remark brief as I be keen that other colleague get to speak in this important debate . as we have hear , rare cancer be define as those that affect few than one in 2 , 000 individual ; in Hyndburn , that equate to an estimate 1 , 500 people be impact . behind every number be a story , as we have hear , of a patient and those who love they , of life cut short that could have be save or prolong have the right diagnosis and treatment be available . I want to spend a few minute speak about constituent in Hyndburn who have reach out to I and about some of my personal experience . I be grateful to Carol who reach out on behalf of herself and her daughter Emma , who be battle a rare cancer and be the mum of two girl . every day , and every advancement , could be transformational for that family . I thank Janet , who lose her granddaughter Elizabeth , for also reach out . Elizabeth be a real fighter ; she raise over £ 100 , 000 before she die , and she leave her body to research , demonstrate what individual be do in this fight . it be now the Government ' s turn to step in and meet what have already be put in by family and community . I want to thank Sheila , who sadly lose her sister Margaret and her father - in - law to pancreatic cancer . I also want to mention Milly , the incredible young girl who die of leukaemia when she be just 11 year old , not 18 month after be diagnose . her mother Lorraine always remind I to talk about Milly ' s life and what she bring while she be with we . she should have turn 16 last year , but she be the girl with the bright smile who take on life and everything it throw at she and who be brave to the last . we owe it to the memory of Milly and her mum ' s incredible work with their charity milly ' s Smiles , to do all we can to tackle this in future and to take action today . when I be in my late 20 , one of my good friend lose both her mother and her sister within a year , one to melanoma and the other to ovarian cancer . the reality be that if they have be live in America , for at least one of they , if not both , we would have have more time . that be not good enough ; I refuse to accept that , and today we can take step to ensure that people like my friend do not have to be leave literally with none of their family and can have that precious time , however long that might be , because every day , week and birthday really count . the Rare Cancers Bill represent a comprehensive approach to address the disparity face by individual with rare cancer . by revise the regulatory framework , promote dedicated research and facilitate patient participation in clinical trial , this legislation have the potential to transform the landscape of rare cancer treatment in the UK . I be glad that this Labour Government be support the Bill as part of the development of the desperately need national cancer plan , recognise that the provision of the Bill be a crucial step towards equity and excellence in cancer care for all patient , regardless of the rarity of their diagnosis . I commend my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh South West ( Dr Arthur ) on bring forward his important Bill . I also commend hon . member across this House for their powerful and move speech , particularly those of my hon . friend the Members for Calder Valley ( Josh Fenton - Glynn ) , for Mitcham and Morden ( Dame Siobhain McDonagh ) and for Cumbernauld and Kirkintilloch ( Katrina Murray ) , who show that the love for a sibling or child persist forever and can be harness to bring about change . I be speak today because my constituent Mr Peter Realf contact I about his son Stephen , who be train to be an RAF pilot when he be diagnose with astrocytoma . he be just 19 . tragically , despite his cancer be describe as " low - grade " and despite receive treatment that prolong his life , he die six year later , age just 26 . I can not imagine the pain and sense of loss feel by Stephen ' s family and friend , and my heart go out to they and all those who have face the consequence of this cruel disease . Mr Realf and his family have campaign tirelessly since Stephen ' s death to address the baffling paradox that despite brain tumour kill more child and adult under 40 than any other cancer , and despite they rob patient of more year of their life than any other cancer , only a fraction of the Government ' s research funding into cancer be use for brain tumour at just 1 . 37 % of national spend , accord to the charity Brain Tumour Research . Stephen Realf ' s case be stark : a talented , hard - work and clearly impressive young man who die young , lose perhaps 50 year of life and 50 year of potential . a huge public petition and an article write by Stephen ' s sister Maria lead in 2015 to the then - new Petitions Committee of this House conduct its first inquiry . I challenge any right hon . and hon . member to read the report ' s conclusion from 2016 — nine year ago — and not to conclude that , in general , little have improve since then . we should be deeply concerned — though perhaps , as my hon . friend the Member for Mitcham and Morden have indicate , the appropriate emotion be a strong one . we hear of the additional £ 40 million pledge by the last government and how , accord to report , £ 28 million of it be yet to be release to scientist . after one of the relevant authority , the National Institute for Health and Care Research , come to see we at the all - party parliamentary group on brain tumour recently , my colleague and the campaigner , patient and family present still could not fathom just why the money have not be spend in all those year . I be relatively new to this place , but I have be observe politic for a long time , and something about this issue do not fit . it do not feel right . something be profoundly wrong . where there should be outrage , there appear to be relative indifference — not to death and suffering , of course , but to the need for radical change to get money flow . where there should be urgency among the authority — for , after all , people be die , often young — there appear to be a degree of inertia , and where there should be action , we often get lose in the chilling snowstorm of bureaucracy . I be not impugn the decency , compassion or professionalism of official , researcher or clinician ; they be of course commit to help to cure , treat and prevent cancer . however , as with other example of institutional failure , it do not take overt malice , just the absence of grip and tenacity in the face of injustice , or of challenge the status quo , for good thing not to happen , or even for bad and preventable outcome to occur . I do not know why progress do not seem to be happen . what reason could there possibly be for the continue paradox of the underfunding of rare cancer research ? we must find out the reason and overcome those force , or perhaps even vested interest , because the stake could not be high . little have change in term of treatment and survivability since the 1960 . patient with brain tumour do not have time on their side , as many hon . member have say ; sadly , most of those diagnose die within five year . the following statistic from Brain Tumour Research be stark , but , before I read they , I should say that I be glad of the progress on more common cancer , which have affect my family as they have every family . Brain Tumour Research state : " brain tumour kill more child than leukaemia . brain tumour kill more man under 70 than prostate cancer and more woman under 35 than breast cancer . incidence of and death from brain tumour be increase … at the current rate of spending , it could take 100 year for brain cancer to catch up with development in other disease and find a cure . " that be why the Bill introduce by my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh South West be so needed . it offer practical step to get more funding into research to take on and defeat those cancer . finally , I know my ministerial colleague want only the good for patient , so I gently encourage they , if they have not already do so , to ask this question of official : " why be it that research into these cancer , which cause so much death and suffering among the young and rob so many people of so many year of life , be receive so little funding ? " minister should keep ask until they get a satisfactory answer . mp should keep ask until we get a satisfactory answer . we should work together , cross - party if possible , to overcome obstacle and we should certainly pass this Bill . the pain , loss , concern and even anger must be channel into urgent , substantive action . we owe it to the past , current and future victim of rare cancer and to their family . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh South West ( Dr Arthur ) for bring forward this Bill . if , as we always say , politic be the language of priority , then my hon . friend have get his absolutely correct . I thank all member who have share their experience and their story , some incredibly move . they should be what inspire we to take forward all the action we be propose today . I be strike by the fact that the hon . member for Wokingham ( Clive Jones ) and I have something in common , which we probably would not want to have in common , in that we be both diagnose with breast cancer in 2008 . I have to say , my breast cancer be a strange breast cancer , and it always feel slightly strange talk about it , because no one ' s ever hear of it . it be not a rare cancer as such , because it be a breast cancer , although there be some who argue it be actually a soft tissue sarcoma — whatever , it be treat as a breast cancer . it be call a phyllode tumour . unlike other breast tumour , phyllode tumour do not go into the duct , but into the connective tissue . it present differently from other cancer of the breast , and the treatment be also different , in that the only treatment that work be excision . Excision can be anything from a lumpectomy to a mastectomy . the hope be that there be clear margin , which mean the patient will be okay , but — and it be a big " but " — when a malignant phyllode tumour be present , it can spread , and it can be difficult or impossible to treat . that be when it become a very different outcome . I mention it today not because it be a rare cancer , but because it can be difficult to diagnose . it do not show up in a mammogram , for example , and there be no definitive explanation why such tumour occur . some research be go on just now , but it be not conclusive as yet . a lot more work need to happen , and because incidence be so low , it be difficult to research . the thing we know about it for certain seem random to I . they tend to occur more often in the left breast . why ? I have no idea . they usually occur when a patient be in their 40 . as I have say , they do not seem to respond to chemo or radiotherapy , and they be not think to be genetic or hormonal . the reason I mention my case be that it can be a lonely thing to have an unusual cancer . when try to explain it to family and friend , you say , " no , it do not show up in a mammogram . no , I be not get chemotherapy or radiotherapy . no , I do not know why it happen . no , I have not hear of it either . " you begin to doubt yourself a little , and you begin to question what be actually go on . for someone with a very rare cancer , it must be incredibly difficult when there be not a background of research , not anything that they can read , and no one can give they a pamphlet about it and tell they what be happen . it seem to I that we should know more about cancer full stop . we have get to 2025 , and we know some thing about cancer . we know how to treat some cancer , but there be so many other that we do not have the answer for . we need people to be diagnose more quickly , which mean that we have to have the research . we need people to have the good possible treatment , which mean we have to look at the drug and find out what work and what do not work , and where a drug can be transfer from one thing to another successfully . crucially , we have to know why it be that some people get cancer and other do not . this Bill will make a huge difference to the life of some of the people we have hear about today . for some , as we know , it will not be soon enough . it be the responsibility of every single one of we to make change happen , and we have an opportunity today to take that step forward . my hon . friend the Member for Mitcham and Morden ( Dame Siobhain McDonagh ) speak about her sister , Margaret , who I work with for a time in the Labour party . while I be listen to the other speech , I be reflect on what my hon . Friend say . I think we all need to be angry . we need to say — to shout it from the rooftop — that change begin today . that be very powerful . I call Leigh Ingham . I be proud to share the Benches with all the hon . member here . the advocacy that we have hear have be incredibly move . my constituent rosalind , Rob , Mark and Michelle ask I to speak today ; they support the Bill , as do I . patient with rare cancer face incredible challenge , include delay diagnosis , limited treatment option and a lack of research investment that often leave they feel forget . this Bill will change that narrative . it be a call to action for great investment , well access to clinical trial and a strong commitment to research that will ultimately save life . barrier and bureaucracy must not stand in the way of innovation . that be why I support the measure in the Bill that call for a comprehensive review of how we approve treatment for rare cancer . my hon . friend the Member for Mitcham and Morden ( Dame Siobhain McDonagh ) say that more powerfully than I ever will . the Bill be about fairness , dignity and hope . it have significant support from hon . member across the House , not just as politician but as people who understand the value of every life . I hope that we all get to vote for it today . I thank all hon . member for their moving , passionate and powerful speech . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh South West ( Dr Arthur ) on bring forward the Bill and on the work he have do with so many stakeholder . I commend he on share the story of his father - in - law , who will be sadly miss by he and his family . the story of my hon . friend ' s father - in - law have prompt a significant number of my constituent in Edinburgh North and Leith who be advocate for the Bill to share their story . a constituent tell I about their friend , who pass away aged 45 in November 2023 . they be diagnose with two rare cancer . on each occasion , they be inform by their doctor that it be a cancer that they do not know how to treat . my constituent ' s friend tragically die unable to understand why more be not know about those rare cancer , despite the large amount of money that have be put into research and the win achieve in cancer care and treatment by scientist and medic over the past few decade . in Edinburgh , many cancer patient be treat at the Edinburgh Cancer Research Centre at the western general hospital , which border my Edinburgh North and Leith constituency . establish in 2022 , the Cancer Research UK Scotland centre bring together the very good in cancer research from Edinburgh and Glasgow , work with over 80 team . the centre have establish process , and have access to two of the large cancer treatment centre in Scotland , make trial and research more efficient . one of the centre ' s six research theme be mesothelioma , a rare cancer that affect the lining of the lung , abdoman or heart . I be keen to hear from my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh South West about his engagement with the University of Edinburgh and the Edinburgh Cancer Research Centre on the Bill . the Bill crosse devolve and reserved area . I believe in pool and share resource . just as profit should not be a barrier to research , neither should the border at Gretna . I be keen to hear from my hon . friend or the Minister about any discussion that have take place with the Scottish Government and other devolve administration to ensure that we work across the UK , and use the research talent of the University of Edinburgh and other across the UK . we need a join - up approach to make breakthrough on the treatment and care of those with rare cancer . have there be dialogue with Ministers in Scotland and other devolve Ministers on clause 2 and 3 ? have devolve Ministers give any undertaking to replicate the proposal ? in conclusion , the Bill will make a difference to our constituent , and I be delighted to speak in support of it . my mum Violet die two decade ago within six week of her cancer be diagnose . I hope that the Bill will give hope and time to every family impact by a cancer diagnosis . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh South West ( Dr Arthur ) for introduce the Bill . many of my constituent have share with I their experience of rare cancer , and the experience of their family and friend . rare cancer make up almost half of cancer diagnosis , so the Bill be very much welcome . a constituent write to I recently about their seven - year - old son , who be diagnose with medulloblastoma , a rare form of brain cancer . sadly , their son do not survive , despite that cancer have a 75 % survival rate . Medulloblastoma be on a spectrum of high to low risk , which far complicate ability to predict the outcome of treatment . I be here to represent that child , their family and other family affect by rare cancer . I welcome the increase in research , funding and support for early detection and diagnosis . I welcome the introduction of the Bill and wholeheartedly support it . I will be brief , because I understand that we be at the end of the debate , but I rise to support the Bill and pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh South West ( Dr Arthur ) for bring it forward , and for the dignified , collegiate manner in which he have go about thing . up to 95 people in Paisley and Renfrewshire South will be face a less survivable cancer . that is 95 people who will wait long for a diagnosis , will face a postcode lottery to access specialist treatment , and will be leave ask why there be so few treatment option available . the truth be that rare cancer do not receive the research attention or funding that they need . the Bill would take decisive action to change that . it would introduce measure to break down systemic barrier prevent research and innovation in rare cancer . these be not abstract policy change but lifesave reform that would give patient with rare cancer great access to clinical trial . researcher would have well tool to study the disease , and pharmaceutical company would be give strong incentive to invest in treatment that could transform life . behind every rare cancer diagnosis be a person fight for their future , a family search for answer and healthcare professional look for well treatment option . we can not allow those individual to be leave behind simply because their condition be consider rare . we have the opportunity to change that . by support the Bill , we send a clear message that no cancer be too rare to matter , and that no patient should be forget . I be proud to support the Bill and thank my hon . friend for bring it forward . I call the shadow Secretary of State . may I start by extend to the hon . member for Cumbernauld and Kirkintilloch ( Katrina Murray ) and her family my sincere condolence on the passing of her father ? this be an important Bill . I often say to constituent , " if you wish to see the House of Commons at its good , tune in and watch on a Friday . " I say that again today , have hear the debate . it be it be rare for a shadow Secretary of State to take to the Front Bench on a Friday to respond on a private Member ' s Bill , but the debate have reinforce my determination to be here . as the hon . member for Bootle ( Peter Dowd ) say — I like to call he my hon . friend — this be a Bill of hope . I pay tribute to the hon . member for Edinburgh South West ( Dr Arthur ) for his clear and compelling articulation of the case for the Bill , and for be willing to share something as personal as the loss of his father - in - law and his family ' s circumstance . he speak about that with great dignity . with a debate of such quality , it be always invidious to pick out contribution , but I can not resist do so . I have to pick up the contribution of the hon . member for Mitcham and Morden ( Dame Siobhain McDonagh ) . when I be a Minister , we often work with each other and speak on matter relate to health , although not this subject . her passion , determination and energy for change and for something well come across in everything she do , and that build on the fact that this be a Bill for hope . I pay tribute to she for her work and her dedication . I have be a Member of this House for 10 year , and before the election I be a Minister for six . two and a half of those year be spend as a Minister in the Department of Health and Social Care during the pandemic , in time that be challenge for everyone , but I have to say that I have rarely hear a speech as powerful and move , or that hold the House so completely , as that of the hon . member for Calder Valley ( Josh Fenton - Glynn ) . although I do not know his brother , I suspect that he would have be deeply proud of the hon . member today . " Rare " in this context be often a misnomer , because although individually these cancer be rare , collectively they be sadly all too prevalent . as we have hear from hon . member , approximately 55 % of all cancer death be down to so - call rare cancer . the breadth of those rare cancer be huge : they include blood cancer , cancer of the female reproductive organ , head and neck cancer , pancreatic cancer , brain cancer — the hon . member for Mitcham and Morden speak about glioblastomas — and , importantly , child and young people ' s cancer , which the hon . member for Esher and Walton ( Monica Harding ) speak about . we have all see the amazing work by powerful campaigner on these issue and by the huge array of charity campaign in this space : Cancer52 , the Brain Tumour Charity , the Tessa Jowell Brain Cancer Mission , Leukaemia UK , Pancreatic Cancer UK and a whole range of other dedicated and amazing institution . they do a fantastic job . like other hon . member , I recently meet Pancreatic Cancer UK to hear about its work ; the hon . member for Birmingham Erdington ( Paulette Hamilton ) may well have do the same . initially , it be to discuss pancreatic enzyme replacement therapy drug shortage and the urgent need for some sort of solution , but we also have the opportunity to talk more broadly about pancreatic cancer and rare cancer . pancreatic Cancer UK highlight issue that be specific to pancreatic cancer but that I suspect be reflective of many rare cancer : the challenge of diagnosis , the challenge pose by late diagnosis , the reliance on a single therapeutic or a small number of therapeutic with complex supply chain , and the challenge of clinical trial . sadly , so few people with pancreatic cancer , even when they be able to enlist on such trial , survive long enough to provide the datum that will make a real difference . the Bill will help to address that . because each rare cancer be different , each rare cancer need focus research and treatment . the hon . member for Bootle set out clearly the orphan drug regime for rare cancer . yes , there be incentive ; under the 2021 regulation it be possible to incentivise pharmaceutical company that may not be incline to invest in research in area that may benefit only a few , in comparison with the large number affect by other cancer . the regime seek to give market exclusivity right for 10 year , help to reduce the cost of market authorisation , but we have to ask the question that the Bill ask : be it actually do the job it need to do to genuinely incentivise company to invest in research in this space ? the hon . member for Mitcham and Morden mention the NHS repurposing project . if we make it work effectively , it will be a very practical way in which , while we wait for specialist research to come through , we can still do something . I believe that the Bill go a long way towards address the issue . the review of the orphan drug regime , particularly the international angle , be hugely important . I welcome all the provision in the Bill , especially those on the specialist registry and on the sharing of information to get more people into trial . as with any Bill , there be some thing that I believe would benefit from further explanation , but that be what Committee be for . as shadow Secretary of State , I be happy to confirm that the hon . member for Edinburgh South West have our support for the passage of his Bill through second Reading and into Committee . in this place and in life , there be a time to act . I believe that this be it . we have huge potential and huge talent in this country . let we help focus that on save more life and give more precious time to more people . I be pleased and proud to offer my support to the hon . gentleman for the passage of his Bill . first , let I say how sorry I be to hear that my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh South West ( Dr Arthur ) recently lose his father - in - law to glioblastoma . I congratulate he on introduce this legislation less than a year after his election . his wife and child will be immensely proud to see he in the Chamber today . he have the full support of many charity , such as Pancreatic Cancer UK , the Brain Tumour Charity and Cancer Research UK , as well as people up and down the country who have write to their MP urge they to join this debate and vote for the Bill . I also pay tribute to all those right hon . and hon . member who have lose love one and remember they so powerfully today . I thank they for the courage that they have show in share their story . particularly , I do not think that anyone in this Chamber or watch from the Gallery or beyond could have fail to be move by the powerful story from my hon . friend the Members for Calder Valley ( Josh Fenton - Glynn ) , for Cumbernauld and Kirkintilloch ( Katrina Murray ) and for Mitcham and Morden ( Dame Siobhain McDonagh ) , to whom I give particular thank for her tireless campaign on glioblastoma follow the untimely loss of her sister Margaret . I also pay tribute to those who remember their constituent . I be delighted that very soon I will be meet my hon . friend the Member for Hyndburn ( Sarah Smith ) and Lorraine to discuss milly ' s Smiles . let I take the opportunity to add my memory of Joe Chilcott , the son of my friend Tim and Verity and sister to Ellie , who be diagnose with a brain tumour at the age of 10 . it be heartbreaking to lose he when he be just 18 . I thank all the hon . member who have speak today . I will seek to address as many of the issue raise as possible . there be so many story . I recognise the people who be remember in those story , those in the Gallery , and the many more watch at home . they be willing the Bill to succeed . on behalf of the Government , it be my great pleasure to pledge our support for the Bill . we be undertake fundamental reform of the NHS . People live with rare cancer must be at the heart of that change . rare cancer patient deserve well , and the Bill give they something that have be speak about across the House today : new hope . let I begin my remark on what the Bill will do , why we support it and our policy on rare cancer more generally . clinical research be one of the most important way in which we can improve healthcare , by identify the good way to prevent , diagnose and treat cancer . the Bill will encourage the placement of clinical trial for rare cancer in England , by ensure that the patient population can easily be contact by researcher , streamline the recruitment process . it will also ensure a Government review of regulation relevant to orphan drug designation , to ensure that they continue to deliver for patient . innovation in the Bill will complement the radical action that we be develop through the 10 - year health plan and the national cancer plan to fix the NHS , on which I will expand later . research be a key part of this effort , which be why the Department of Health and Social Care , through the National Institute for Health and Care Research , invest more than £ 1 . 6 billion a year in health research . in 2023 - 24 , the NIHR invest £ 133 million in cancer research . as we have hear , rare brain cancer such as glioblastoma have a devastating impact on people and their loved one . that be why the NIHR announce in September 2024 a new package of funding opportunity for brain cancer research , and establish in December a new national brain tumour research consortium , bring together researcher from a wide range of different discipline . that be in parallel with a dedicated funding call for research into wraparound care and the rehabilitation and quality of life of patient with brain tumour . we remain committed to accelerate new breakthrough in high - quality research to drive improvement in the diagnosis , management and treatment of brain and other rare cancer , for well survival rate and patient outcome . the hon . member for Esher and Walton ( Monica Harding ) , my hon . friend the Member for Mitcham and Morden and other ask how the £ 40 million promise for brain tumour have be spend . in the five year since 2018 - 19 , the NIHR have invest £ 11 . 3 million directly in brain cancer , with a furth £ 31 . 5 million to enable brain tumour research in 227 study involve 8 , 500 people . the commitment remain in place . I can confirm that there be no upper limit on that funding . we be explore additional research policy option to encourage more clinical trial in early phase research and the development of medical device and diagnostic . we have also talk a lot about other rare cancer , include lobular breast cancer , for which we be support research through the research infrastructure , include biomedical research centre . we welcome further funding application for research on all condition , include lobular breast cancer . we continue to consider whether abbreviate form of breast magnetic resonance imagining — fast mri — can detect breast cancer that be miss by screen through mammography , such as lobular and the other type of breast cancer that have be mention . we be also support the opening of 171 study on blood cancer , provide an online registry call " be Part of Research " , which allow user to search for and participate in study relevant to they . clinical trial be a crucial part of cancer research . they provide patient with early access to groundbreake and possibly lifesave treatment . the measure in the Bill align strongly with our commitment to that , and aim to streamline clinical trial recruitment process . my hon . friend the Member for Mitcham and Morden speak passionately about how long it take trust to negotiate contract . we recognise that issue and be begin to make progress . nhs commercial contracting have be standardise , and the national contract value review have reduce study set - up time by 36 % , from 305 day to 194 day in the first 12 month ' analysis . we continue in that work . the hon . member for Wokingham ( Clive Jones ) and my hon . friend the Member for Bootle ( Peter Dowd ) ask how we be work across border . we be take forward the most significant reform of UK clinical trial regulation in over 20 year , while maintain robust protection and safeguarding for clinical trial participant . the MHRA already authorise cross - border clinical trial , include those conduct in the EU and on UK - base trial site . the " be Part of Research " programme use information from national and international source . my hon . friend the Member for Mitcham and Morden speak so passionately — we have all comment on her passion and anger . I appreciate her frustration and share her desire for radical action . I think we can all agree that the Government ' s announcement yesterday on scrap NHS England demonstrate our willingness to be bold , take risk and do thing differently . member raise several other matter . I will come back to they all with more detailed information on those issue , but I do not have the time to do so today . I will address the national cancer plan , however , which be raise a number of time . it be really important to fulfil our goal of transform cancer care , and we will not just cherry - pick the most common cancer ; we need a rise tide that will lift all ship . as a person who be live with an incurable cancer myself , I can not overstate how deeply I feel the honour and responsibility of be ask to drive forward our work in create the national cancer plan — it be my absolute honour . but while we take stride to fix cancer service , I be under no illusion that the Government or I hold all the answer , so my plea be for hon . member to work with we and share their expertise . I ask they please to visit " shape the national cancer plan " on the Department ' s website and to contribute evidence . the Government be commit to make a real difference for patient with rare cancer . for those affect by this devastating disease , every discovery , every treatment and every moment matter . we will do all we can to facilitate the passage of this Bill here and in the other place . with the leave of the House , I would like to thank a few people . first and foremost , I thank the Minister for her speech . I meet she yesterday , and she be fill with genuine passion , energy and excitement for this subject . it be great to see she come here today and use her power to support this Bill , and let we hope that it pass . I thank the shadow Secretary of State , the right hon . member for Melton and Syston ( Edward Argar ) . before this debate , people tell I that he be respect across the House , and he have show why . I must also thank my hon . friend the Member for Crawley ( Peter Lamb ) . People in the Gallery will not know this , but he have work really effectively , right throughout the debate , to ensure that all the people who want to speak could do so . I thank he for that . I thank the whip and the Speaker ' s Office for manage the debate sensitively , because this be quite a difficult subject , and I thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , because it be you who pull my ping - pong ball from the goldfish bowl . it be very skilfully do . I wish I have time to thank everybody who speak in the debate . sadly , I do not , but they have my thank and respect . they have do a great job of thank each other as the debate have proceed , so I thank they all . I will watch the debate again over the weekend , because it have be quite incredible and quite move . I thank our colleague from the Department of Health and Social Care , who be in the official ' box . they have be fantastic . without they , this Bill would not have happen . privately , there have be a few Sir Humphrey moment , but those from the Department have be absolutely fantastic , and that be very clear yesterday when I meet the Minister . I thank the charity that back the Bill . they do not just back it ; they help get it to where it be . they be not just back a finished product ; they influence and shape it . I think that be why so many people be here to support it . I thank the staff in the Public Bill Office for their patience and so much more , and I thank the staff in my office . I think Noel and Solomon be here today , but it be a team effort . back in Edinburgh be Lucie , Salim , Xavier , Evie and Hannah . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] they deserve that . in all the contribution today , we have hear evidence that people with a rare cancer diagnosis face great injustice , because their chance be so much slim and they face so much uncertainty . we have show that we want change . we be not just be angry ; we be use that anger to get even , which be really important . we talk in this Chamber , but often there be no action . today we have talk and agree , and hopefully there be go to be action . that be most definitely Parliament at its good . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read a second time ; to stand committed to a Public Bill Committee ( Standing Order no . 63 ) . Free School Meals ( automatic registration of eligible Children ) Bill Second read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . I be very grateful for my good fortune in have the chance to introduce a Bill in my first year as a Member of this House and to seek to address , in part , one of my great policy concern : childhood poverty . the previous Labour Government make reduce child poverty one of their most significant mission in office , and research by the Institute for Fiscal Studies have demonstrate that without the change they make to benefit , child poverty would have increase by more than a quarter by 2010 — instead , it fall by more than a quarter . it be a remarkable achievement under the circumstance . unfortunately , the action of the Conservatives in the year since have reverse much of that good work . today , in one of the wealthy country in the world , almost a third of our child — innocent who have no control whatsoever over their personal circumstance — be live in poverty . Harold Wilson famously say that the Labour party be " a moral crusade or it be nothing . " if this government be to be judge on anything over the next five year , let it be how they treat the most vulnerable member of our society . like many member of my party , I have find the decision not to immediately lift the two - child benefit cap extremely painful . we do not need further report on how this policy be one of the most significant driver of child poverty under the previous Government ; at this point , I do not believe the bookshelf of the House of Commons Library could support any more evidence , be it to be submit . however , I do accept that £ 3 . 2 billion can not simply be find overnight . if we be serious about end childhood poverty , we need to consider all the issue in the round , and the child poverty taskforce be a vital part of ensure that limited public money be use most effectively to address this crisis . what can we do here today , while we await the finding of the taskforce , to try to improve the condition of child live in poverty ? member will be aware that private Member ' s Bills can not authorise new expenditure , and I do not seek to challenge that . this Bill seek simply to ensure that the child whom this House have already state should receive free school meal receive they automatically , unless their parent actively opt out of the system . it will not require a penny more in expenditure than be necessary to fulfil the social contract that generation of Parliaments have sustain with our poor child . the requirement to qualify for free school meal be a combine household income of £ 7 , 400 or less — an income of roughly half the average rent in my constituency . I find it hard to believe that it be possible to sustain a household on such a low income . it be these child the Bill seek to support . the story we hear of child poverty be heartbreaking , not only because of the hunger and the impact on child ' s performance at school , but because of the stigma , with story of child pretend to bring food out of their bag so that they can fit in with their friend at school , even when there be nothing available . Us former council leader have to stick together . I pay tribute to my hon . friend for bring forward this Bill . as I mention in my maiden speech , I be a recipient of free school meal myself . I remember that stigma ; I remember get a blue ticket when I go to get lunch with my friend , while they get a yellow one . the stigma be still with I today . it run very deep in I . do he agree that the Government ' s child poverty taskforce have to consider everything in the round ? we should welcome the Government ' s announcement on free breakfast club and the roll - out of the trial of those club . do he also agree that we need to see urgency from the Government and the Minister , as I be sure we will , to address this issue and to take a systematic look at family and child in poverty ? I absolutely agree . I be very grateful to my hon . friend for his intervention . the Government be do a lot to try to address this issue , but that be not to say that we can not do more . we hear those story of stigma , with child pretend to bring food out of their bag so that they do not miss out or so that they fit in , even if they do not have the actual food . we should be glad that over the year since , the system of free school meal have change , so that people can not tell which child be in receipt of free school meal . I will come back to that point , but it hopefully have encourage parent to make use of the option . free school meal be estimate to save roughly £ 500 a child . against such a low income , that amount make a huge difference . for a family affect by the child benefit cap , it would increase their income by a fifth or more . why , give the difference that it could make to their household , be every eligible family not claim ? there be a range of reason . in some case , there be a belief that their child might be bully due to be in receipt of a free school meal , as my hon . friend the Member for Telford ( Shaun Davies ) mention . if there be one immediate outcome of this debate , I hope it be to reinforce the message to parent that no one can now identify which child be on a free school meal . there be no stigma in claim — please make the application . we know also that the same barrier exist as with any other form of state support , where barrier of language , agency , awareness and ability ensure that those face the great disadvantage in our society be the least likely to access the support available . these be the family who would benefit most from this legislation . this Bill be so important exactly because of what my hon . friend have just say . it remove administrative barrier that get in the way , but that can frequently be overcome sensibly . importantly , it still provide an opt - out for parent , which be important , because not everybody would want to take this up for their child . do he agree that this government should do everything they can to remove any administrative barrier ? it have be a while since I look at the number , but my understanding when I last look be that the level of unclaimed benefit in our system be at least 10 time great than the total value of benefit fraud . People be choose not to access the support available by and large because of stigma or a lack of awareness , but the impact within our society be real , and we should be do everything we can to reduce that stigma . we all pay in so that there be a safety net for we when we need it and to ensure that other member of our community , our neighbour and the people we care about do not have to go without when they fall on difficult time . we should do everything possible to avoid the vilification that be disgustingly often put upon people simply because they be poor . beyond the moral argument , this measure be about the future of our country . education be an investment in the future prosperity of our country and of our citizen . it be the bedrock of economic growth and of enable people to live independent and successful life . auto - enrolment stand to improve educational outcome in three way . the most obvious be by reduce hunger , the impact of which upon concentration and educational performance be well know . school meal be introduce 120 year ago next year to ensure that child receive at least one nutritious meal a day , so that they could function effectively . secondly , auto - enrolment would improve household income , and household income be positively correlate with educational outcome . in fact , there be a double - digit improvement in performance at GCSE level between child in the low and second - low income decile , and that improvement continue all the way up in decrease amount until we hit the third - high decile , where for all the money spend on private school , educational outcome plateau across the top 30 % of income . I thank my hon . friend for the speech he be make and for put child poverty at its heart . on educational outcome , do he agree that auto - enrol child would mean that school could take advantage of many of the gateway support that be premise on how many child at a school be on free school meal ? I be sure that , like I , he will have speak to school carry a heavy level of debt that be school dinner debt , because they be have to provide meal for hungry child . I agree with my hon . friend . I be well aware of the amount of effort that local school be have to make directly to deal with the consequence of financial deprivation . it be important that we try to ensure that the statistic on free school meal be accurate , because it be a gateway to support . it be also how we measure any number of indicator of poverty in our society . if there be a statistical link between some group under - reporting compare with other group , we will have inaccurate figure on where deprivation be in our society and how good to try to address that problem . the last benefit of auto - enrolment relate to the pupil premium of £ 1 , 455 a pupil , which be design to counter the impact of deprivation on educational outcome . it be a payment that school receive on the basis of the number of pupil in receipt of free school meal . low uptake of free school meal be now directly limit the funding available to those school where it would make the most difference to educational outcome . as a Government who be ambitious for the education of our child and commit to secure high level of economic growth , the failure to address these matter of deprivation be a hurdle that we have to clear if we be go to succeed . this be well recognise . the Education Committee recently report : " we consider that the argument for auto - enrolment in free school meal for those child currently eligible be conclusive . in the interest of alleviate hunger in school and improve health and educational outcome for the poor child , auto - enrolment must be bring in without delay . " pilot run by local authority , which quite heavily bend the rule set by current legislation to try to get as many of their child register as possible , have repeatedly show over recent year the scale of under - registration and the impact that auto - enrolment could have , both for those family benefit and for school funding in deprive community . the Government ' s own figure suggest that under - registration stand at a minimum of 11 % , which be equivalent to a quarter of a million child , although research nationally and in my own constituency suggest that the overall figure could well be significantly high . it be worth note that the £ 7 , 400 income threshold cut off the overwhelming majority of child who be live in poverty in this country , who still do not qualify for free school meal . that should certainly be correct in due course , but for now , this Bill would make the most amount of difference to the very poor child , benefit they , their family , their school and — through improvement in educational outcome — society at large . I accept that the mess the new Government have inherit from the last Government and the economic uncertainty create by decision currently be take in Washington mean that it may be too much to expect a wholesale adoption of the policy today . however , I hope that the Minister — who have be generous with his time with I on this matter , and have demonstrate his commitment to increase the uptake of free school meal — will be able to give a commitment that auto - enrolment will be give serious consideration as part of the work now be undertake to bring an end to childhood poverty in the United Kingdom . I also hope that today ' s debate will underline the support among member of this House for bring about this change on behalf of our most vulnerable constituent . surely , the very least that our country have a right to expect of its Parliament be that we will ensure that the nation ' s child be feed . it be a privilege to follow my hon . friend the Member for Crawley ( Peter Lamb ) . I be so happy that his name be draw in the private Member ' s Bill ballot , and that he have choose this excellent subject and most important topic for his Bill . as my hon . Friend say , school food have be available for almost 120 year . that be thank to an MP for Bradford — little know by most — call Fred Jowett , who introduce the concept in his private Member ' s Bill in 1906 . my hon . friend follow in the footstep of a great man , and I thank he for that . free school meal have exist in one form or another for the good part of 80 year , mean that countless generation of child have receive a hot , nutritious meal at lunch time . they be life - change for pupil — no one know that well than I do . grow up as a recipient of free school meal , from almost the day I start school to the day I leave school , the knowledge that there would be food at lunch time give my mam , I and my brother the security that I would not be hungry go into the rest of the school day . I echo the feeling of stigma that my hon . friend the Members for Crawley and for Telford ( Shaun Davies ) have speak about . I also recall have a different dinner ticket and , even bad , have a different meal queue to stand in . our queue be serve after the pay - for child be serve ; it be horrify , I know . I be glad to say that that do not happen any more — child be not separate in such an abhorrent way — but the stigma be still very real and alive today , no matter how hard school try to alleviate it through cashless system and so on . ask any child in school , " who be the child on free school meal ? " , and they will look to they straightaway . they all know . I have be to many school over 20 year ; I always ask they , and they always nod sheepishly that they know — sometimes because they be that very child , but sometimes because they know who those other child be . that stigma never leave you ; it stay with you , and in the sixth rich economy in the world , we should not be subject our child in school to that stigma any long . we be all aware of the countless , cross - cut benefit of free school meal , so I will not waste the House ' s time by reliste they all ; I will only say that , from increase attendance to attainment and more , free school meal be a multifaceted policy with widespread benefit across society . I be proud to be the founder and current chair of the all - party parliamentary group on school food since 2010 . the group be instrumental in shape the universal infant free school meal scheme , along with the author of the school food plan , Henry Dimbleby and John Vincent , and we be still in discussion on the good delivery of the universal primary breakfast club programme . we — I , the mps involve and all the stakeholder , who I think number 300 now — all want the early adopter to be a huge success . the all - party parliamentary group meet only yesterday , and the Wilson Room be pack . the group be always well attend by school food stakeholder : we have around 50 in attendance yesterday , but I have know we to fill Committee Room 14 with 80 to 100 attendee , and I hope the Minister know he have an open invitation to attend when his diary allow . the early adopter scheme , due to roll out to the first 750 school this April , will show we where lesson can be learn for a smooth introduction to all primary school next year — but , as my hon . friend the Member for Crawley have already say , this Government can and should go far . we can make marginal , low - cost improvement to the statutory free school meal scheme that we already have by introduce an opt - out system , as outline in the Bill . we will capture around 200 , 000 child who be eligible for this crucial support but be not currently receive it . admin barrier should not mean that one in 10 student whose household income be already below the £ 7 , 400 threshold before benefit , miss out on free school meal support when they need it most . this auto - enrolment Bill can not be see as extra spending . government funding already exist for the child who be not claim this statutory support , so it be the low of low - hang fruit . moreover , increase free school meal uptake unlock , as we have hear , a whole host of other benefit , include vital pupil premium funding of up to £ 1 , 455 extra per child . if this House want to talk about well education funding , surely unlock funding that already exist be the most logical and economically efficient way of do that ? in closing , extend free school meal by automatic registration to these most needy 200 , 000 child should be a no - brainer for any Government and a moral imperative for this Labour Government . I hope to see this Government and this Minister rectify that at their early opportunity . I congratulate the hon . member for Crawley ( Peter Lamb ) on promote this Bill so ably . the last Conservative Government massively expand eligibility for free school meal , mean that the proportion of child and young people eligible be much high than be the case under any previous Government . the evidence here prove that the inheritance we leave behind in this area last July be much kind than that which the last Labour Government leave we in 2010 , with one in three child able to get a free school meal — as oppose to one in six when the previous Labour Government be last in office — despite a large fall in the number of workless household . we see in the body of child increase stunting , with the average 10 - year - old 1 cm short than they be in 2010 . how do that square with what the Minister be say ? we see a malnutrition crisis . when we look at dietary habit in recent decade , we see that that be not confine to part of the income spectrum . there have be a deterioration in the quality of diet go back over several decade that be quite separate from issue of poverty . as of January 2024 , more than 2 . 1 million pupil be eligible for benefit - relate free school meal , which amount to 24 . 6 % of all pupil . in addition , more than 90 , 000 disadvantaged student in further education receive a free school meal at lunch time . collectively , this support the child and young people who need it most to ensure that they could make the most of their world - class education , boost their health and save their parent considerable amount that they could not afford . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I really must continue . the Government have promise to move on to the next Bill at quarter to two , so I need to keep intervention to a minimum . we also introduce extensive protection which have be in effect since 2018 . they ensure that while universal credit be be fully roll out , any child eligible for free school meal would retain their entitlement and keep get free school meal until the end of the phase ; in other word , until they complete either primary or secondary school if their family ' s income rise above the income threshold such that that would otherwise have stop . on breakfast club , we all know that breakfast be the most important meal of the day , set people up with the fuel they need to make the most of the day ahead , and the evidence support that . at this point , Madam Deputy Speaker , I ought to declare an interest . my wife be in teaching , although she be provide one - to - one special need teach rather than in a classroom at the moment . we know that those child who do not have breakfast be more likely to have issue with behaviour , wellbee and learn . that be why the previous Government expand the provision of breakfast , invest up to £ 35 million in the national school breakfast programme . that funding support 2 , 700 school in disadvantaged area , provide thousand of child from low - income family with a free nutritious breakfast at school to support their attainment , wellbee and readiness to learn . moreover , we trust school leader to deliver , build a breakfast provision that fit the need of their pupil . that involve five different model , range from a traditional breakfast club to a healthy grab and go . the programme have have great success in support those who need it most and I welcome the Minister ' s confirmation that his party will continue to support it until at least next March . I hope the support extend past that date . nutrition do not cease to be an issue outside of term time , which be why the previous Government roll out the holiday , activity and food programme to support during holiday period disadvantaged and low - income family in receipt of free school meal . since 2018 , the programme have deliver enriching activity and nutritious food to the child and young people who need it most , with more than £ 200 million each year deliver 15 . 6 million half day to child and young people across every single one of the 153 local authority in England . the Bill require local authority in England to identify each child of school age resident in its area who be eligible for free school meal . it also require state - fund school that identify a child who be eligible to provide those meal . we support the desire to ensure that all those eligible for free school meal have an opportunity to receive they , so do not wish to prevent the Bill from proceed . however , I have a couple of question about how the Bill will achieve that , which I hope that the Bill ' s promoter can address in his closing remark so that member can consider that as the Bill proceed . I know that the hon . member for Crawley have extensive experience in local government , and I think that 20 local authority have now pilot their own auto - enrolment scheme at some point . in draft the Bill , what consideration do he give to the burden that will be add to local authority ? do he have any assessment or measure of the cost for local council tax payer and how that relate to both the saving for local family and the additional income for school through pupil premium ? the Bill would also give power to the Secretary of State to make regulation to make provision for the definition of the term " state - fund school " . in what circumstance do the hon . member believe that a change in definition will be necessary ? I will be clear , as we be in government , that we believe in target support to where it be most need . we believe that the state should do less but do it well — but that do include deliver sufficient support to those who need it most , and particularly to child and young people . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Crawley ( Peter Lamb ) for his Bill and for provide the opportunity to consider the importance that free , nutritious meal have in break the link between background and achievement . he be a true champion for his constituent and for child and family across the country . I be delighted to meet he to discuss the Bill and hear how passionate he be about our opportunity mission . I also thank my hon . friend the Member for Washington and Gateshead South ( Mrs Hodgson ) , who have be a champion for free school meal provision in this place for a considerable time . I also thank she for her leadership on the APPG . I be proud to serve under this mission - drive Government who be break down the barrier to opportunity for every child in every part of our country . we currently spend about £ 1 . 5 billion annually on free lunch for 2 . 1 million school pupil under benefit - base free school meal alongside over 90 , 000 disadvantaged student in further education and about 1 . 3 million infant under universal infant free school meal . we consider the aim of those measure at their core to be to ensure that those who need it get the support that they be entitle to , which be a goal that we be supportive of . free lunch programme provide pupil with essential nutrition , support attendance and ultimately ensure that pupil can concentrate , learn and get the most out of their education . they be essential to break down barrier to opportunity and tackle child poverty : a task that be more important than ever as a result of the legacy of rise child poverty leave behind by the previous Government . shamefully , there be 700 , 000 more child in poverty than in 2010 , and over 4 million child be now grow up in a low - income family . that be why I be proud of a new ministerial taskforce that be work urgently to develop a child poverty strategy to address that . the child poverty taskforce be consider a range of lever to tackle child poverty , include key cost driver for household such as food , to develop a comprehensive strategy that will be publish later this year . that be in addition to action that we be already take to deliver on our mission to break down barrier to opportunity by roll out free breakfast club in every state - fund primary school , provide food and childcare to child and to socialise they before the school day as well as put more money back into parent ' pocket — on average £ 450 a year . far , the holiday activity and food programme , which be establish in every local authority area in England and deliver vital support to child and family during school holiday , will again receive more than £ 200 million in 2025 - 26 . we facilitate the claiming of free meal by provide the eligibility checking system , a digital portal available to local authority that make verifying eligibility for free lunch quick and simple . I can tell the House that the checking system have be redesign to allow parent and school to check eligibility independently from their local authority . this system will make it quick and easy to check eligibility for school meal , and have the potential to far boost take - up by family meet the eligibility criterion . far to that , my Department be aware of a range of measure that be be implement by local authority to boost the take - up of free lunch . we welcome locally lead approach and I be personally keen to learn from they . by work directly with their community , local authority can overcome the barrier to register and take action to ensure that family have access to the support for which they be eligible , subject to those activity meet legal requirement , include those on data protection . to support those local effort , my Department be work with the Department for Science , Innovation and Technology on explore legal gateway that can enable well datum sharing . in the meantime , we will continue to engage with a range of stakeholder , include family and young people , as I have do personally , to understand the barrier for household that meet the criterion for a free lunch but be not claim they , include through work closely with local authority to understand the approach that they have take . in conclusion , I thank my hon . friend the Member for Crawley for bring forward this Bill . we all agree that it address a matter of great importance . I hope it be apparent from my remark that the Government be supportive of the aim of the Bill . we be work with the Department for Science , Innovation and Technology to explore legal gateway that could enable well datum sharing , and there be further consideration of improve free school meal enrolment through the work of the child poverty taskforce . this Government be determined to break down the barrier to opportunity for every child . our work to simplify enrolment be important to achieve that aim . we be confident that the action I have outline will improve take - up of free meal , alongside the local work be trialle by many local authority across the country . for that reason , I hope that my hon . friend can be encourage to withdraw his Bill while we continue to explore enrolment and keep free school meal under review . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Crawley ( Peter Lamb ) on his private Member ' s Bill on this very important topic , and on his excellent speech . it be a well - establish fact that good nutrition be essential for child ' s brain development and learning . when child go to school without eat a nutritious meal , or eat at all , it have a detrimental effect on their behaviour and educational performance . Barnardo ' s late research , " nourish the future " , find that " 1 in 3 school say hunger and food insecurity be impact on child ' s ability to learn , include poor concentration , tiredness and behavioural problem . " as a school governor , I know the challenge that school face in deal with challenge behaviour and get child to learn , so anything that help improve behaviour and learning be to be welcome . free school meal be mean to be a lifeline for low - income family . they be mean to ensure that the most disadvantaged child in society get a free nutritious meal every day that they be in school , to help they concentrate , learn and achieve . however , accord to the Child Poverty Action Group , over 900 , 000 child across the UK do not qualify for free school meal because of restrictive qualifying criterion . accord to the Food Foundation , a further 250 , 000 eligible child be miss out on free school meal for a variety of reason , include lack of awareness , stigma or embarrassment , the complexity of the form — the Minister refer to the previous checking system — or language barrier . the fact that obtain free school meal be an opt - in process , require parent or carer to apply , be itself a barrier . if we want our child to flourish , thrive and get the good start in life , that need to change . as the Minister mention , one of the Labour party ' s five mission be to break down barrier to opportunity , and I believe this be one of those barrier . the solution be auto - enrolment for free school meal , as set out in the speech by my hon . friend the Member for Crawley . however , he be not the only person to call for such a change ; that call have come from many quarter . in 2021 , the Conservative Government commission Henry Dimbleby , co - founder of the restaurant chain Leon , to produce a food strategy for the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs . recommendation 4 of the strategy be to extend eligibility for free school meal , and one of the three way to achieve that recommendation be to : " enrol eligible child for free school meal automatically . " the rationale for that recommendation be that " even eligible child be often miss out . currently , fsm be ' opt - in ' : parent have to know about the scheme and apply for it . the effect of this be that , accord to a 2013 estimate by the DfE , 11 % of child entitle to FSMs do not receive they . " in the benefit section of recommendation 4 , it be note that : " this would have benefit for those child ' s health , but also for their educational achievement . follow one pilot of universal free school meal in 2009 – 11 , primary school pupil make between four and eight week ' more progress than expect . pupil from poor family and those who have previously do less well at school show the most improvement . " it be state that there be clear education and health benefit in child have a nutritious free school meal — and that come from the Conservative Government ' s food strategy . sadly , as with many of the recommendation , auto - enrolment be not implement . more recently , the Education Committee ' s " Scrutiny of the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill " report of 28 February state at paragraph 35 " that the argument for auto - enrolment in free school meal for those child currently eligible be conclusive . in the interest of alleviate hunger in school and improve health and educational outcome for the poor child , auto - enrolment must be bring in without delay . " we be lucky in London that the Mayor of London , Sir Sadiq Khan , have agree to fund free lunch for all London ' s child in state primary school , which be already make a difference to child ' s educational outcome . it be a shame that this policy do not apply to secondary school too , but in the absence of such a policy , auto - enrolment be the good way to ensure all eligible child get the free school meal that they be entitle to and deserve . if we be to ensure that child get the good start in life , learn and thrive at school and achieve to their full potential , auto - enrolling of eligible child on to free school meal be the good way forward . we need to remove that barrier to opportunity , and this would , at a stroke , make a huge difference to those child ' s life . the Government be already do many good thing in education , and the announcement of the breakfast club early adopter be warmly welcome by I and , I be sure , colleague on both side of the House . I hope that the Government will adopt this policy , because it help alleviate child poverty , be good for child , and be the right thing to do . I hear what the Minister say about the child poverty taskforce strategy , and look forward to it report later in the year on what it would do to challenge child poverty . datum sharing be obviously to be welcome , and I know that the Government will do all they can to ensure that all eligible child get the free school meal that they deserve , to help they learn and thrive . I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Crawley ( Peter Lamb ) for bring forward this private Member ' s Bill on a process that , as a former council leader , I see as a bureaucratic , red - tape nightmare . child eligible for free school meal be not access they simply because a form be not fill in . even though local authority , school and community know exactly who those child be , bureaucracy be get in the way . I be pleased to hear the Minister say at the Dispatch Box that he be work with the Department for Science , Innovation and Technology to look at way in which datum sharing and passporte benefit check could be use to ensure that more child get food . however , this must be look at in the round . I hear from a constituent this week who have just take their child out of a breakfast club because the cost of the club have go up by £ 15 a week . sadly , that school be not one of the 750 early adopter of breakfast club , but it will benefit from that policy initiative as it be roll out . it be an excellent initiative and we should be proud of it . we should call on the Government to go hard , fast , in implement the policy . some 900 , 000 more child in working household be live in poverty in 2023 than in 2010 . that mean that 1 , 350 child enter poverty every single week for the first 13 year the Conservatives be in power . in my area , Telford , absolute poverty rise from 14 . 9 % to 18 . 4 % between 2014 and 2023 , and we know that a huge number of family who be not include in the poverty figure be also struggle to make end meet . ultimately , we need an economy that be grow and get people into work so that the poverty trap can be remove . like the shadow Minister , I declare an interest : my wife be a primary school teacher in Telford . she tell I about the direct contrast between the child she teach now and the cohort that she teach when she start 20 year ago . child be come in with major social issue , and those social issue have to be address as a whole . the Government also need to consider the huge regional inequality in deprivation . child poverty in some part of the country go down under the last Conservative Government , but in my region it soar . we need to engage with council and , where applicable , with combined authority and mayor to ensure a systematic approach . my hon . friend mention work with region . may I add a point about nation ? in Wales , all primary school child have be eligible for free school meal since September last year . do my hon . friend agree that in design the roll - out of free school meal in England , the UK Government could learn from the experience in Wales ? I absolutely agree . my county border Wales , so I know Wales very well indeed . the Westminster Government should absolutely learn from the Welsh Labour Government ' s approach to child poverty , and to inequality more generally . we should congratulate and acknowledge the work of Welsh Labour in that space . I welcome the previous Government ' s household support fund and its extension by this Government . as a council leader and as chair of the Local Government Association , I work with Conservative Ministers on the fund . the approach and ideal be absolutely right , but the one - year duration mean that the money be not be use to the good possible extent . that go back to the point about the importance of a cross - ministerial taskforce look at the issue in the round . we have hear a lot this week , from the Prime Minister downwards , about the need for delivery , about urgent action and about the ability to make a difference and demonstrate change . as a Labour Government , we can not be in a position where , in four or five year ' time , we point to bureaucracy and red tape as the reason why we have not make a huge impact on the life of the poor child in our country . I be grateful for the opportunity that the Bill provide to put on record the importance of discuss the scourge of child poverty in our country , particularly as it relate to child ' s nutrition . it be a simple fact that the height of an average five - year - old increase progressively until 2013 but have since reverse ; child age five be short today than in the past . we face a dual burden : not only stunt , but obesity . we have see a 30 % increase in obesity since 2006 and a 22 % increase in teenager with type 2 diabete since 2017 . all of this point to the poverty of child ' s diet in this country . when we have this conversation , for I it be never a matter of what we can afford to do ; we can not afford not to do something about it , because the knock - on in the NHS be immense , and the knock - on in future work day miss by the next generation will be immense . it be a sad reality that , as my hon . friend the Member for Crawley ( Peter Lamb ) say , in a typical UK classroom one third of child will be live in relative poverty . child be also the group most likely to be live in cold home in this country . probably the most startling statistic from my county of Durham , which really show what austerity have do to our child over the last decade and a half , be the 250 % increase in the number of child in the care system . the cost of that for the local taxpayer be immense , as be the human and social cost for those child . but somewhere between be in the care system and be a happy child with a healthy life be many child who live in condition of neglect . that be why it be so important that the state and school sometimes do the work to provide what child be not get in the home . I hope that the child poverty taskforce will report soon , and we will see some positive change . I welcome the breakfast club introduce by the Government , which will make a difference not only to ensure that child start the day well feed and have settle , but to the cost of living . I meet a constituent a few month ago who share with I that it cost she £ 400 a month just to pay for her child to be look after from 7 . 30 till the start of the school day . that be have a massive impact on she , so for she , that breakfast club be an extra £ 400 a month , and I be grateful for that . what be be propose today be a modest and sensible tweak that address the challenge of child not be enrol . I be grateful to the Minister for say that the Government will look at this issue , because we can not afford to allow a generation of child to grow up as they be right now . the Bill aim to make a meaningful and lasting difference to the life of child across our country . we must come together to focus on the future of our young people , understand that the way we invest in they today be how we shape our society of tomorrow . the Government have be clear in their commitment to address child poverty — I welcome that — and the work already be do through the ministerial taskforce , which be shape a long - term strategy to bring about change . that commitment be also evident in the King ' s Speech , which announce further investment in child ' s wellbee through the introduction of breakfast club , which I also welcome . financial support for the least well - off be another key element of our approach . as a former councillor , I know that the additional £ 1 billion allocate in the most recent Budget to the household support fund will allow local authority to provide target help to those who need it most . we must always ensure that support for family be not just well intentione but well deliver . that be why the Bill be so important . it remove unnecessary barrier , streamline the process so that every eligible child be automatically register for the help to which they be entitle . no family should have to navigate unnecessary bureaucracy or miss out due to a lack of awareness . at the same time , the Bill respect parental choice , which be incredibly important . it be essential to recognise that the most effective way to reduce poverty and improve life chance be by focus on long - term , sustainable economic growth . by foster a strong economy we can boost household income and ensure that public service remain well funded and effective . the long - term vision must always be to create an environment where family can thrive , child can reach their full potential , and the cycle of poverty can be break for good . while we work towards that vision , it be important to continue implement practical , well target measure , such as those in the Bill , that can bring about immediate improvement . the decision we make today will shape the society we live in tomorrow . before I enter this place , I work on poverty for the Child Poverty Action Group , Oxfam and Church Action on Poverty . back in 2010 , there be cross - party consensus that we should end child poverty . Gordon Brown refer to it as his guide mission . should we return to that time ? I completely agree . Gordon Brown be a wonderful Prime Minister . to conclude , the Bill represent a crucial step in our ongoing commitment to tackle child poverty . order , that the debate be now adjourn . — ( Christian Wakeford . ) debate to be resume on Friday 11 July . arm ' s - Length Bodies ( Review ) Bill Second read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . as you will know , Madam Deputy Speaker , timing be important in politic . when , last autumn , I choose today for the second reading of the Bill , how could I have predict that arm ' s length body , which I will abbreviate to ALBs , would have be mention four time in the Times leader this very morning ? nor could I have predict the generosity of the Government Whips in allow — indeed , facilitate — debate on this important Bill . I first introduce the Bill in the 2023 - 24 Session , but Dissolution prevent it from be debate . I have to say , I do not think the Government who be in office at that time would have be very responsive to the content of the Bill . it be therefore beyond my wild dream that a Labour Government seem to understand , at least in part , the problem that arm ' s length body present to Parliament , particularly to the House of Commons , and the Ministers , through their unaccountable structure . as the Times leader this morning put it : " arm ' s - length body … have often be favour by minister as a way of distance themselves from contentious issue . but the result be often a duplication of effort , result in turf war between whitehall ministry and ALBs over policy . free of the need to answer to voter , alb can go rogue , as Highways England do over its promotion , in the face of public opposition , of so - call smart motorway . " for another current , topical example of that problem , one need look no far than the Sentencing Council . early this month , on 5 March , that independent arm ' s length body issue new guideline for the sentencing of offender from minority group . that issue be take up by the shadow Secretary of State for Justice , my right hon . friend the Member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) , during the question that follow a statement by the Justice Secretary . my right hon . friend challenge the Justice Secretary by point out that the new sentencing guideline would make a custodial sentence less likely for those from " an ethnic minority , cultural minority , and / or faith minority community . " in her response , the Justice Secretary say : " as somebody from an ethnic minority background , I do not stand for any differential treatment before the law for anyone . there will never be a two - tier sentencing approach under my watch " . — [ Official Report , 5 March 2025 ; Vol . 763 , c . 287 . ] within hour , however , it become apparent that the Justice Secretary do not have the control that she think she have over the activity of the Sentencing Council . the new guideline , due to be implement from 1 April , remain unaltered and unaffected by what both the Secretary of State for Justice and her shadow have say to this House . I understand from today ' s newspaper that yesterday there be a meeting between the Justice Secretary and the chairman of the Sentencing Council , Lord Justice William Davis . I would have expect to have see in the same press release that Lord Justice William Davis have now concede to the Justice Secretary , who I think speak for everybody in this House by say that we should not have a two - tier justice system . I would have think that he would have accept that he get it wrong , and the new guideline would be withdraw before 1 April . however , that do not seem to have happen yet . we now know that the guideline be the subject of quite critical comment when they go out to consultation , include from the Magistrates Association , which describe they as a get - out - of - jail - free card . why have we set up a system whereby the Sentencing Council be able to dictate this type of policy , override the will of Ministers and elect member of Parliament ? I respect the point that the hon . Member be make about the Sentencing Council , but give that this issue have be around for the past few year — he say that the guideline be out for consultation — why do he think the previous Government be unable to take any action on it ? I can not speak for the previous government because I be not a member , although obviously I be in the House . my understanding be that this have become a live issue only within recent week and month , and that the present Government have be involve in discussion behind the scene . I be not blame the Justice Secretary , because I think that perhaps her official misread what she say or perhaps do not understand the need to consult she . they seem to have be to meeting with the Sentencing Council . it be my understanding that the consultation process come to a conclusion after the present Government come into office . we should all agree that we need to try to find a way through . a Bill promote by my right hon . friend the Member for Newark , which be on the Order Paper today — the Sentencing Council ( Powers of Secretary of State ) Bill — would enable the House and the Minister to take back control from the Sentencing Council over issue relate to a sentencing policy and guidance . I would find it amazing if the Government seek to block progress on that Bill today . there be everything to be say for it go through all stage in the House in one day , because it be essentially an emergency measure in response to the fact that , so far , the Sentencing Council do not seem to have respond positively to the representation of the Justice Secretary . the Sentencing Council be not unique in be able to ignore the wish of Ministers and Parliament . Most arm ' s length body have a similar status to the Sentencing Council . they be in three different category : executive agency , non - departmental public body and non - ministerial department . they have slightly vary relationship with the House and with Government , but there be far too many of they . how many arm ' s length body be there ? I be tell by a Cabinet Office Minister in response to my question that on 4 July last year , there be 307 arm ' s length body , and 135 of those have an annual operating expenditure in excess of £ 5 million in 2023 - 24 . although the Minister duck my other question of how many there be now , we know that since come into office , the Government have remove one quango and create 27 new one . although the Prime Minister have take some decisive action on one quango , there be a heck of a lot of other that I hope will come under his scrutiny . my Bill seek to ensure that the most significant quango be accountable to Parliament . give the Prime Minister ' s announcement yesterday , do the hon . member welcome the announcement that the large of those organisation be to be move within ministerial and departmental oversight ? I be just come to that — I have to say that I be absolutely delighted . I be not ambivalent about it ; it be really good news , and I will give some example of how frustrating it have be in my constituency to try to engage with the organisation call NHS Dorset — it use to be call the integrate care board — and how difficult it have be to get any timely response . I be delighted that the Prime Minister obviously agree with the objective of the Bill . whereas this Bill inevitably have to tread carefully around the subject matter , the good way of get parliamentary accountability of the activity of arm ' s length body be to abolish those body completely , which be what the Prime Minister announce yesterday . I be very much aware that the hon . Member have be a Member of this Chamber for much long than I and many of my colleague have , give that many of we be elect for the first time last July , but do he recall that between 1997 and 2010 , the Labour Government cut the number of quango in this country by 39 . 8 % ? that show what Labour do in government . wait until the end of the five year and see how many we have cut by then — I be sure he will be delight by the number . I be more interested , actually , in look at the number of people in the civil service . there be a low point during the Blair year , but I be sorry to report that under the last Conservative Government and in the time that this Government have be in office , the number of civil servant have continue to increase exponentially . we be talk about between 100 , 000 and 200 , 000 more civil servant since the Brexit referendum . the size of the state , the Government and the civil service be important issue , and they be fundamental to this , but my Bill focus on try to ensure that the official who be pay handsomely by the taxpayer be more accountable than they have be to this House and the Government . the Prime Minister say yesterday that these quango and regulator end up block what the Government want to do , and that be obviously unsatisfactory . in a democracy , we elect a Government , and we expect they to take action on our behalf . could the hon . Gentleman enlighten I on a slight confusion I have with the wording of his Bill ? the Government be talk about bring more of these agency back under Executive control so that the Executive , elect by the british people , can drive their performance . his Bill would provide direct parliamentary control , which in many case — such as with the Prison Service , which be oversee by the Ministry of Justice — would move control and oversight from the Executive to Parliament . I may be confuse , but would the Bill not make some of that hard not easy ? I do not think my Bill would make any of that hard . what I be say be that if the Government wish to abolish these arm ' s length body , or some of they , and to create a more direct relationship between the activity of those body when they be under direct Government control and this House , I welcome that . I have already make that clear . however , the Government have already show that they be intent on increase the number of arm ' s length body . later , I be go to come on to what I regard as an egregious example of give substantial new power to an arm ' s length body — namely the power for Natural England set out in the Planning and Infrastructure Bill that be publish early this week . I will come on to that in due course . what be important be that these arm ' s length body be not able to go on a frolic of their own and ignore the wish of the people ' s representative . as such , my Bill attempt to remedy that accountability gap . as have be say , the most direct way of do that be to abolish the arm ' s length body altogether . currently , the Government be indeed legislate to abolish one arm ' s length body through the Institute for Apprenticeships and Technical Education ( transfer of Functions etc ) Bill . I be chair that Bill ' s Committee stage yesterday , so I will not comment on its merit or otherwise , but its proposal be dwarf by the announcement of the abolition of NHS England . I welcome that decision ; as I say early , I have a constituency concern about the way in which NHS England ' s outpost in Dorset , NHS Dorset , lack responsiveness to member of Parliament . to give the House a topical example from this week — indeed , it be still go on — the continue healthcare department at NHS Dorset have fail over many month to sort out an issue relate to a quadriplegic who be one of my constituent . he have now move into a different residential care home , and his social worker be from the NHS continue healthcare team . as we speak , he be threaten with lose his mobility vehicle this very weekend because of the NHS ' s inability to deal with the Department for Work and Pensions and sort the matter out . this very week , my constituent ' s mother write to I , and I immediately try to contact NHS Dorset . I have send an email and leave phone message with both the social worker and the organisation , and my secretary be busy phone today to try to get a response . no response be forthcoming from NHS Dorset , and in my view , that be unacceptable . that be just a small example of the problem , which I hope will be properly address by bring NHS England back under direct control of the Government . it would mean , for example , that I would be able to put down question about this matter — I could try to table an urgent question for the Minister . that direct accountability be , I think , what Lord Lansley be try to avoid when he be Secretary of State . it be an embarrassment to the Conservative Government — the coalition Government — that they could be ask question by mp on the sort of subject I have just raise , yet what more important role be there for an MP than try to drive through these bureaucratic block and deliver what our constituent be expect ? the case of the hon . member ' s constituent be a really interesting one , although I do not know the full detail . however , sometimes when we get rid of a quango , it be a case of , " be careful what you wish for . " one of the job I have before come to this place be parliamentary officer for the public and Commercial Services Union . one much lament former body from the bonfire of the quango be the Independent Living Fund , which provide support for some of the most complex case — potentially like the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent — and be able to work much more easily . in a cost - save measure , that support be transfer into local government , and local government be much less efficient at administer it , so I would say , " be careful what you wish for when you close quango just because they be quango . " I hear the hon . Gentleman ' s cautionary tale , and I be not suggest that anything will be a panacea . my Bill be just a tentative step to try to introduce a little more accountability . my hon . friend be make a powerful speech and I agree entirely with the point he be make . as I recall from the coalition day , one of the reason for the Lansley reform be to make the nhs more independent of Government , which clearly fail . my personal view be that all these arm ' s length body , quango and so on should be within the Departments . then , as he say , we would be able to question Ministers on the issue . the idea that we should make they independent of their political master be something we need to overturn . absolutely ; that be why , although the term " independent " sound seductive to people outside , it quite often mean a lack of control by elect representative over the body in question . I be not go to spend all my time talk about NHS Dorset , but I must offer one other illustration of my concern . I have a letter here from the chief executive of NHS Dorset , who I think receive a lot more remuneration than even the Prime Minister . I write to she in November , and she write back at the end of January about an issue relate to dermatology service in Dorset . I write back to she say , " what be be do to address this issue ? you haven ' t answer that in your letter . " it take until 5 March , with further query follow up on it , for I to receive an answer . the letter cite my question , which I first raise back in November , as : " concern over the ' unacceptably long waiting list for dermatology service . what be be do to address this issue by the Integrated Care Board ? ' " the answer give be : " as part of a commissioning for sustainability programme , dermatology be one of the service that be be focusse on . the aim of the programme be to recover service to the 18 - week standard target , whilst maintain sustainability . as part of this we be currently review how the commissioning and delivery of service can well achieve this . " that be after more than four month . there be no suggestion of when the review start , when it be likely to end or what will happen . I take that as an example of the Member of Parliament be fob off by officialdom for have the temerity to raise an important issue on behalf of his constituent . I could go on with many other example from NHS , but I will not do that . instead , I will see whether , through this debate , I can encourage the Government to go far than just abolish NHS England . I have have many dealing with the NHS Business Services Authority , another arm ' s length body , apparently control by the Department of Health and Social Care , but essentially a law unto itself . I have be in dealing with the NHSBSA on a number of different subject , but particularly on the subject of the access and treatment of people who suffer vaccine damage and have apply for vaccine damage payment . the NHSBSA be responsible for organise and run that scheme , yet progress in deal with application be desperately slow . as at last November , it have more than 17 , 000 claim relate to covid - 19 vaccine , but of those , more than 7 , 000 be await resolution , and some have be wait more than 18 month to be resolve . once a claim have be reject , as it often be , the claimant have an opportunity to go for a mandatory reversal application before they can get access to a tribunal . dissatisfied claimant can go for the mandatory reversal , but the NHSBSA can hold up that process . as at 27 February this year , 1 , 657 reject claim have be subject to mandatory reversal . some 600 of those be outstanding , and 81 have be outstanding for more than a year . that be intolerable , because it can take more than a year for someone to have their claim dismiss . they then get a mandatory reversal and need to go to tribunal . after three year , someone ' s right to litigate on this subject be take away by the limitation period . that be an example of what happen when department and arm ' s length body start take over and be thoroughly incompetent . if the hon . Gentleman be so concerned about that , why do he vote for the Health and Social Care Bill , which include the setting up of NHS England , on 13 March 2012 ? I be probably in one of my less rebellious period at that stage , but the hon . Gentleman be right to chide I , because I think it be a big mistake . this be such a fundamental issue for the hon . member , so why should we pay any attention whatever to what he be say to we today ? I be not insist that anybody should pay attention to what I be say . all I be put forward be a proposition that these arm ' s length body , of which there be far too many , should be bring to account more than they be at the moment . I have just give an example of the NHS Business Services Authority . another example be Natural England . one of the mean by which arm ' s length body be mean to be accountable to Parliament be through the publication of annual report , with account . if one look at the situation with Natural England , it have not produce an annual report and account for the year end 31 March 2024 . the last account it produce be in December 2023 for the financial year end 31 March 2023 . that be unacceptable . the Government guidance be that these arm ' s length body should produce their report and account within three month of the end of the financial year . in light of what the hon . Member be say , will he support labour ' s Planning and Infrastructure Bill , which take away Natural England ' s power to delay or stop the building of vital infrastructure , include energy and rail infrastructure and the 1 . 5 million home that we need in this country ? the hon . Lady tempt I to move on to the Planning and Infrastructure Bill . before the hon . Gentleman move on from Natural England , in my constituency we have get a huge problem with the Whinney Hill tip , which Natural England and the Environment Agency be both heavily involve in . my resident face horrendous issue with gull , the stink and many other challenge from that tip , but we have be limit in find an alternative because elect official need to plan for an alternative waste station . if the Environment Agency have great tooth , it might have be able to push the issue and find a well solution . be it not sometimes about have the right power in place rather than remove quango altogether ? that intervention be slightly broad in scope , but it return at the end . the Environment Agency as an arm ' s length body be find want in many respect , not least that it argue that it have a lack of resource to introduce the necessary prosecution and enforcement of the regulation that it be mean to be in charge of . just to illustrate that point — this also relate to Natural England , actually — towards the end of the last Parliament , I arrange with the then Minister at the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs to have a meeting in his office with official from Natural England and the Environment Agency to discuss the state of the Avon valley : the river , the nitrate and phosphate problem , and the break in the Avon valley footpath , which cross the River Avon in my constituency but , as a result of neglect , be no long viable . the Minister set up the meeting in his Department . the first time I go along to the Department with he , he be sit there with his private secretary and we be mean to have official from Natural England and the Environment Agency with we online on Zoom — I do not know whether they be work from home — but nothing happen . at the last minute , there be a message say that they could not attend . I say to the Minister that he should get heavy with they , because this be intolerable . it be another month or six week before we have an in - person meet with they . I wish that I could say to the hon . member for Hyndburn ( Sarah Smith ) that , as a result of all that , the issue have be resolve , but they have not . I have get a meeting with Natural England on site on 1 April in the Avon valley in my constituency . all be not well with these arm ' s length body . there be probably different solution for resolve that , depend on their specific nature . the former Paymaster General , the right hon . member for Salisbury ( John Glen ) , say in guidance that " alb be closely align , but distinct from their sponsor department " and so on . it continue that ALBs " be each responsible to Parliament for their use of public fund . " be that not contrary to what the hon . Gentleman seem to be tell we ? who be right — he or the former Paymaster General ? that be the difference between the word and the reality . strictly speak — I be come on to this — they have to produce annual report and account , which go to what be describe as their sponsor Departments . in most case , the sponsor Department lay those account before the House . with Natural England , for example , we do not know what have be go on since 31 March 2023 , so it be accountable , but not in what I would describe as a meaningful sense such that we can ask specific question . on the point about arm ' s length body and their accountability to Parliament , do my hon . friend agree that it would be useful to have a mechanism to bring they to Parliament to hold they to account , not just through their annual account ? if there be gross negligence in a Department or an arm ' s length body , particularly those that deal in medical or other delicate matter , or if there be some issue that need to be bring to the fore , we could have a mechanism for they to come to Parliament so that there could be direct parliamentary accountability . although it be say in theory that those body be accountable to we , there be no evidence to show that that be the case . my hon . friend take I back to the content of my Bill , which seek to achieve exactly what she request . clause 1 state : " House of Commons approval of relevant document ( 1 ) within a period of forty day start on the day on which a relevant document be lay before the House of Commons by , or on behalf of , a qualifying body , a Minister of the Crown must move a motion that the House of Commons approve the relevant document . " that mean that we , in the House , would be able to decide whether we approve that document . the Bill go on to say : " if the House of Commons do not approve a motion under subsection ( 1 ) , the relevant document shall stand refer to the Committee of Public Accounts . " it seem to I that the good body that we have in the House to deal with this sort of situation would be the Public Accounts Committee , so there would be an automatic referral to that Committee if the member of this House decide that they be dissatisfied with the performance of the relevant arm ' s length body . have the hon . Gentleman have any discussion with the Chair of the Public Accounts Committee , the hon . member for North Cotswolds ( Sir Geoffrey Clifton - Brown ) , to assess how much of the Committee ' s time would be take up with go through the account of , potentially , 150 quango , which would be directly responsible to Parliament ? Quangos be not directly responsible to Parliament , which be why I have bring forward the Bill . rise — I be not go to give way any more , but I will just make this comment : the hon . Gentleman seem to be intent on find a reason for not take action in this area and to block progress . may I suggest that he pursue an alternative career in the civil service , because that be exactly the sort of role that he would be well suit to ? the Planning and Infrastructure Bill be publish this week . it give extensive and revised power to Natural England , which have not even produce its annual report for last year . instead of abolish Natural England , which might have be the right approach follow the Prime Minister ' s abolition of NHS England , so that the relevant responsibility could be take on by the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs directly , clause 48 to 78 of the Planning and Infrastructure Bill give Natural England , an unelected , arm ' s length body , responsibility for environmental delivery plan , the administration and control of the nature restoration levy , and a whole lot of other responsibility , which would be well suit to the government so that there be more direct accountability . I can see why the Government be frustrate at the delay by Natural England . I have experience that in my own constituency , where there be a ridiculous attempt by somebody to try to build a new open - air surfing lake . although the site be only three mile from the coast , they want to build that new infrastructure , but Natural England sit on the responsibility of advise on the project and refuse to take action . I keep ask the planning inspector what we could do about that , and the answer be nothing . we have to wait until Natural England get round to decide what it be go to do , if anything , which add month . there be a development site in the middle of Christchurch , a former police station . as a result of Natural England ' s faffe about over phosphate , the cost of develop the site have increase by over £ 3 million , and there be a significant delay of probably two year or more . the Government need to take these power back into the Department , rather than , as set out in the Planning and Infrastructure Bill , give even more power to Natural England , which be an unelected and scarcely accountable quango . the hon . Gentleman be talk about Natural England and NHS England , which obviously operate only in England . be he aware that in another part of the UK , Scotland , we have see an absolute proliferation of quango under the SNP ? we now have more quango in Scotland than there be member of the Scottish Parliament . do he , like I , look forward to the day when the SNP no long run the Scottish Government and a Labour Administration promise to crack down on these thing ? although I be educate at university in Scotland , I will not get draw into scottish politic , but there be a lot to be say for have a United Kingdom approach to all these issue . in some respect , we have probably devolve too much power to the Scottish Government for thing that should more properly be deal with by the United Kingdom Parliament . we hear in today ' s debate on the Rare Cancers Bill that its clause 2 and 3 be specifically limit to England and Wales . although it be a very important Bill about research on rare cancer , it would not apply to Scotland . that be a big problem , but we will not get into that now , because I be try to confine my remark to the several hundred arm ' s length body . I do not have time to go through any more example , but the Government seem to have undergo a conversion . suddenly they have see the light , and realise that they need to take back control . I will use an anecdote to illustrate my proposition . when I be a Minister in the Department for the Environment , we have 18 - storey tower block in Marsham Street . I be privileged to be a junior Minister , and Nick Ridley be my Secretary of State . for those who do not know he , he be passionately in favour of the freedom of people to smoke , if they so wish . one day , he arrive in the tower block and there be a big notice in the lift say , " no smoking in this lift " , which cause he to say in a stage whisper , " can somebody remind I who ' s in charge of this Department ? " needless to say , the notice be quickly remove . when he be Secretary of State , he give I the responsibility of deal with a mega - quango : the Property Services Agency , which be responsible for massive delay and add cost to the building of the British Library , for example . he imbue in I a feeling that minister be in charge . one day , the permanent secretary , who be responsible for the Property Services Agency , go behind my back and basically say to Nick Ridley that I be responsible for a significant decline in the morale of the people work for the Property Services Agency , and he ask whether the Secretary of State could intervene . the Secretary of State say to the gentleman in question , " Sir Gordon , Chris be in charge of the Property Services Agency . if you wish to discuss anything with he , then I be sure his door be always open . " he report that back to I , and from that moment onwards the relationship change ; the Minister be back in charge and the civil servant recognise that they be in a subordinate and accountable role . I hope that be exactly what will happen now with NHS England , and a lot of other arm ' s length body , as a result of the Government ' s conversion to recognise — the Deputy Speaker interrupt the business ( Standing Order No . 11 ( 2 ) ) . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 28 March . business without Debate Public Health ( Control of Disease ) Act 1984 ( amendment ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 28 March . Debt Relief ( Developing Countries ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 11 July . Arms Trade ( Inquiry and Suspension ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 16 May . Pension ( Special Rules for end of Life ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 25 April . Heritage Public Houses Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 25 April . Statutory Instruments Act 1946 ( amendment ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 28 March . dangerous Dogs Act 1991 ( amendment ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 28 March . Domestic Energy ( Value Added Tax ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 28 March . BBC Licence Fee Non - Payment ( decriminalisation for over - 75 ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 28 March . Quantitative Easing ( prohibition ) Bill the Member in charge have give instruction early today that he wish to defer his Bill to Friday 28 March and will not move second reading of the Bill today . we will therefore move on to the next Bill set down for today . pet ( Microchips ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 28 March . Covid - 19 Vaccine Damage Payments Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 28 March . Anonymity of Suspects Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 28 March . child ' s Clothing ( Value Added Tax ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 28 March . Highways Act 1980 ( Amendment ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 28 March . British Broadcasting Corporation ( Privatisation ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 28 March . Illegal Immigration ( Offences ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 28 March . Vaccine Damage Payments Act ( Review ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 28 March . NHS England ( Alternative Treatment ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 28 March . Terminal Illness ( Relief of Pain ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 28 March . Covid - 19 Vaccine Damage Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 28 March . marriage ( prohibit Degrees of Relationship ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 28 March . Mobile Homes Act 1983 ( amendment ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 28 March . Sentencing Council ( Powers of Secretary of State ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 28 March . HS2 Mitigation Projects : Inflation Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Christian Wakeford . ) I be grateful for the opportunity to raise this important issue in the House . I want to focus on the impact that inflation have have on the ability of different institution to deliver the community project and mitigation that High Speed 2 previously agree to in Mid Buckinghamshire . the case be many in number , but I will illustrate the scale of the problem with particular attention to two press concern : noise mitigation measure for St Mary ' s church in Wendover and the provision of a new ground and facility for Wendover cricket club . HS2 have be deeply controversial across my Mid Buckinghamshire constituency and the wide county . I make no bone about my absolute and total opposition to HS2 , which be well document . many of my constituent have suffer greatly as a result of the disruption that it have cause , from environmental damage to the impact on home , business and local amenity , as well as the damage to our local infrastructure . that be not to mention the hideous cost to the taxpayer . my hon . friend mention the cost relate to infrastructure . one of the huge impact that go unrecognised be the impact on road and road surface . not only be many area of Buckinghamshire on a flood plain , but our road get a huge amount of use , which be compound by the HS2 traffic . do he agree that that be not compensate for by the HS2 fund in any way ? my hon . friend and fellow Buckinghamshire Member of Parliament be absolutely right . day in , day out , we see the impact of thousand of heavy good vehicle movement have churn up our local road infrastructure . these road originate as cart track and do not have deep substructure , so they get churn up very easily . the impact of such big infrastructure project on our road be considerable . I have talk about that many time in the House , and have a great deal of correspondence with Ministers on it . no matter what the infrastructure project , we have to get well as a country at understand the construction impact before a green light be give , so that they be properly mitigate . it be incumbent on HS2 to fix what it break . East West Rail , to be fair to it , have do that . it have resurface a number of road around the claydon where it have have compound , and where there have be hgv movement . it be incumbent on HS2 to do the same . from the outset , affected community organisation have be force to negotiate their survival with HS2 Ltd , often at great cost to they and ultimately to the taxpayer , but when a town , village , neighbourhood or community be so brutally impact by big infrastructure , I argue that there be a moral duty on the promoter — in this case , the state — to mitigate , compensate , and treat the place and people affect fairly . the rise cost of inflation since phase 1 be approve in 2017 have mean that commitment make by the state and HS2 Ltd — indeed , by Parliament , through the hybrid Bill process — be at risk of be delay , water down or even abandon altogether . that be simply unacceptable . one of the most egregious example of such broken commitment be the case of St Mary ' s church in Wendover . this historical and much love place of worship have serve the community for century , not only provide spiritual support but act as a hub for local activity and event , particularly music concert . HS2 Ltd have recognise that the noise impact from construction and , in the future , from pass high - speed train would significantly affect the church , particularly during service and the concert I have mention . as such , it have agree to provide noise mitigation measure — above all , very sophisticated sound insulation . yet due to rise cost and the pressure of inflation since that particular mitigation be agree in 2016 , we be now be tell that these measure may not be deliver in full , if at all . after conversation between the church and the project begin more than eight year ago , the undertaking and assurance originally give by the Department for Transport have not be honour , through no fault of the church , despite the project be contractually oblige to do so . as such , with inflation , the original £ 250 , 000 cost refer to in the U & A will now result in less than 50 % of the work be affordable , compare with what it would have cover at the time of the U & A . this be confirm after I intervene to restart discussion , which have effectively stall because of the fundamental unwillingness on HS2 Ltd ' s part to engage meaningfully on what be a key community concern — an attitude that , as I have raise many time in this place , be evident across affected Mid Buckinghamshire community . this be completely unacceptable . a commitment be make , and the Government must ensure that HS2 Ltd honour it . the congregation of St Mary ' s church should not have to suffer excessive noise pollution because of a failure to manage cost effectively or the basic fact of construction inflation over so many year . this be a matter of fairness and upholding trust , and ensure that historic institution such as St Mary ' s be protect for future generation . my second example of a break promise relate to Wendover cricket club . as I say early , I could go much far afield in my constituency , but Wendover town have be particularly affect . this historic local club have be an integral part of the Wendover community for more than a century , offer young people and adult the opportunity to engage in sport , stay active and participate in community life . it be one of the few club across Buckinghamshire that offer the wide range of age group for team that compete across the whole country . it be part not just of Wendover ' s identity , but of Buckinghamshire ' s identity . by evict the club from its ground , HS2 be drive a wedge through everyone and everything there . due to HS2 ' s construction , the club ' s exist facility be render completely unusable — indeed , completely sever in two . HS2 Ltd originally pledge to provide new ground and upgrade facility to compensate for the disruption , to the tune of £ 200 , 000 , through another of these undertaking and assurance agreement , sign in 2017 . however , the club have now be inform that due to escalate cost , the new facility may not be deliver to the standard originally agree upon — or , bad , that they may not be deliver at all because of hs2 ' s reluctance to pay the cost as it be in 2025 , or potentially 2026 , if it take that long . act in good faith , the cricket club have already enter into a groundwork contract that include approximately £ 90 , 000 - worth of self - fund item . it be also consider a pavilion contract that currently include approximately £ 180 , 000 of item , again self - fund , on the basis of receive the U & a resource and its own reserve . the U & A state : " the Secretary of State for Transport will , subject to Royal Assent , require the nominate undertaker to contribute the sum of up to £ 200 , 000 toward the reasonable cost of Wendover Cricket club relocate both its Ellesborough Road and Witchell ground " . these delay be wholly the result of HS2 , so I ask the Minister for an assurance that , at a minimum , the nominate undertaker — in this case HS2 Ltd — honour the spirit of the U & A to Wendover cricket club with an inflation - adjust figure . the impact of this situation on local cricket and community engagement can not be overstate . wendover cricket club be a volunteer organisation that be try to provide a service for the local community and encourage youth and adult sport and fitness . its coach teach young people discipline and teamwork and contribute to the health and wellbeing of the entire community . the loss of its promise facility would be a devastating blow to the area and to my constituency . I understand the significant economic pressure that our country face . the war in Ukraine , supply chain disruption and other global economic factor have all contribute to rise cost . however , those factor must not be use as an excuse to renege on commitment that be make to community directly impact by HS2 . HS2 Ltd and the Government must ensure that fund be allocate properly to deliver on the promise that be make to the people of Wendover and beyond in my Mid Buckinghamshire constituency . if saving in HS2 Ltd need to be find — and let we face it , they do — they should not come at the expense of community project that be explicitly agree to as mitigation measure . instead , we should look at where efficiency can be make in the wide hs2 project , to ensure that local community be not short - changed . I urge the Minister to take the follow immediate action . first , will he confirm HS2 Ltd ' s commitment to deliver the promise noise mitigation measure for St Mary ' s church , Wendover , and ensure that no backtracking take place ? secondly , will he guarantee that Wendover cricket club will receive the new ground and facility that be pledge , with no reduction in quality of delivery due to cost - cut measure ? thirdly , will he ensure full transparency from HS2 Ltd regard how inflationary pressure be impact community mitigation project and explore alternative funding mechanism to safeguard those commitment ? fourthly , will he hold HS2 Ltd accountable for ensure that agree mitigation measure be ringfence and be not subject to arbitrary cost - save exercise that disproportionately impact community ? my constituent do not ask for HS2 , but they have have to endure year of disruption , environmental damage and upheaval in our community . the very least that they deserve be for HS2 Ltd to honour the commitment that it have make to mitigate the very bad excess of that impact . it be a matter of integrity , fairness and do the right thing by the people of Wendover and Mid Buckinghamshire . I look forward to the Minister ' s response and , hopefully , to work together to ensure that these promise be keep . I congratulate the hon . member for Mid Buckinghamshire ( Greg Smith ) on secure this debate , on stand up so resolutely for civil society institution in his constituency and on speak so eloquently about they . high inflation , the pandemic , protester action , planning appeal , judicial review and low productivity than expect have have a significant impact on the cost of phase 1 of hs2 . the Government have be clear that we be committed to get a grip on the spiral cost . as part of that work , the Secretary of State for Transport have publish the first HS2 report to Parliament under the new Government , set out some of the immediate action and intervention that we will take to regain control of HS2 ' s cost and bring the project back on track . for instance , Ministers have task the new chief executive officer of HS2 Ltd , Mark Wild , with produce an action plan to reset the programme and deliver the remain work as cost - effectively as possible . we have also reinstate ministerial oversight of the project through a ministerial taskforce to ensure transparency and accountability . my Department will update Parliament as the important work of reset the programme and reinstating oversight progress . may I say , on behalf of two of the Buckinghamshire mps , that we stand in solidarity in support for scrap hs2 altogether ? it be never too late for a real cost - save Minister to scrap the whole thing . well , it be the former Prime Minister who come to Manchester during the party conference to scrap hs2 from go from Manchester . I have never know quite such a political insult . it be suppose to balance up our country , yet we will have reduce capacity and there be an impact on Northern Powerhouse Rail . the handling of the project over a number of year have have effect both on the constituency it be go through , as the hon . Member have so passionately extoll , and on those that be not get it . let I get back to the point that the hon . member for Mid Buckinghamshire be here to talk about . follow discussion with St Mary ' s in 2016 , during the passage of the High Speed Rail ( London – West Midlands ) Act 2017 , the church be give an assurance and commitment that the project would support it in improve its noise insulation . the assurance provide very clearly for a contribution up to a maximum of £ 250 , 000 , with no provision for inflation . there be many other hs2 assurance on the public register , include commitment to fund particular work or activity . some of those explicitly provide for index - link ; other do not . the one give to St Mary ' s do not . it be worth note that the House of Lords Committee set up to hear from petitioner against the Bill consider the case of St Mary ' s , and take the unusual step in 2016 of report that the £ 250 , 000 offer be generous . furthermore , I be pleased to report that , since the assurance be give , HS2 have make other improvement to its plan for noise mitigation in the locality of the church . that will reduce the amount of noise reach the church in the first place . take all that into account , it be not consider appropriate to increase the amount of public funding offer to the church or to increase any other financial mitigation that be fix , not index , at the time they be agree . there be no evidence that the sum be no long sufficient . we have inherit a difficult situation on HS2 , as the hon . Member say , and our priority now be to get a grip of the cost to the Government . I be grateful to the Minister for his comment , but do he accept , as a point of principle , that that be not an arbitrary amount of money offer to the church as a top - up for church fund , but be very specifically for noise mitigation purpose ? if in 2025 the money promise in 2016 simply can not deliver that , it be not fair on the church or the many other project in a similar position . I know that it be not a problem of his making , but it be a problem that the Department for Transport , as the sponsor body , now find itself with . the hon . member be right . HS2 have clearly already put in some noise mitigation , but I hope he will hear I out for a second . I understand that agreement have not yet be reach on the mitigation work to be undertake at the church . as a result , accord to the term of the assurance , the fund can not yet be release . I encourage the hon . member , and particularly the party of HS2 and the church , to focus their effort on agree the work that can be carry out and a timeline for they to begin , so that the available funding can be release and stretch as far as humanly possible . I encourage the party to get together and begin that negotiation . I be a social member of Wythenshawe cricket club — although my playing day be long behind I — so I know the value that cricket club , and other sport and social club , provide not just in sporting term but in the social glue of cohesion and solidarity . the hon . Member speak eloquently about Wendover in his constituency . the deal that be ask for have an uplift to cover inflation . I understand that the request be currently with HS2 , which be look into the circumstance of the club and will respond in due course . I hope that he will get an answer very shortly ; if he do not , he should please contact I . I will then let the Rail Minister know and we will follow it up . HS2 will have hear his impassione plea that this historic and successful club do not miss out . the hon . member for Beaconsfield ( Joy Morrissey ) raise road condition . I be aware that HS2 Ltd have be work closely with Buckinghamshire council over the past few year to improve the way that such road repair be manage . it have already allocate considerable resource to deal with that problem . road repair be measure against the baseline road condition level agree at the start of the project . either payment be make to council at current price or the repair be undertake by HS2 Ltd contractor , so they be not affect by inflation . I be pleased that the hon . member for Mid Buckinghamshire have be far more successful with East West Rail on the road repair in his constituency . I again congratulate the hon . member on secure this debate . let I reiterate that transport be an essential part of the Government ' s mission to rebuild Britain . we will continue to work with hon . member and local leader on ensure that we get the delivery of infrastructure project right . as I say , I welcome this debate , as it be vital that we continue to discuss our transport project openly and transparently . question put and agree to . House adjourn .