business before question protect our democracy from Coercion Resolved , that an humble Address be present to his Majesty , that he will be graciously pleased to give direction that there be lay before this House a Return of the Report , entitle protect our democracy from Coercion , date 21 May 2024 . — ( Mark Fletcher . ) Oral Answers to Questions Energy Security and Net Zero the Secretary of State be ask — Grangemouth Oil Refinery what recent discussion she have have with trade union on the future of Grangemouth oil refinery beyond 2025 . my Department attend the Grangemouth industrial just transition leadership forum alongside Scotland Office Ministers and representative of Unite the union on 28 March . we remain in close contact with the Scottish Government and the owner Petroineos . my hon . friend the Minister for Energy Security and Net Zero meet Scottish Government counterpart and Petroineos management on 15 May and raise the importance of work with the union . warm word be one thing ; tangible support be quite another . if Grangemouth close , Scotland face the possibility — indeed , the probability — of be the only major oil produce nation without refinery capacity , yet € 700 million have be find by the UK Government to support an Ineos plant in Antwerp while not a penny be available for Grangemouth . be it to be a Brexit bonus for belgian worker and a P45 for those scot at the refinery ? we be work with the Scottish Government and Petroineos to understand all possible option for the future of the refinery . I remind the hon . Gentleman that the Conservatives be the only major party who be back the North sea , the bidding it bring in each year and the hundred of thousand of job that it support , while a new report last week show that Labour ' s plan could lose as many as 100 , 000 job in the next five year . Net Zero Target what progress she have make on reach the Government ' s 2050 net zero target . we be on track to reach net zero by 2050 , and we will do so in a way that bring the public with we . we overachieve on our third carbon budget by 15 % , and we announce today that we will not be roll that over as we think that we will be able to overperform on carbon budget 4 as well . I congratulate the Government on we be one of the first major economy in the world to set out the ambition for net zero carbon emission by 2050 . what discussion have the Secretary of State have with the Chancellor and the Secretary of State for Transport with regard to a revenue support mechanism for sustainable aviation , as well as ensure that feedstock for sustainable aviation fuel take priority ? I know from experience that my hon . friend be a doughty champion for his local area and for the aviation sector . my Department be in regular contact with the Department for Transport and the Treasury on aviation decarbonisation and the important role for sustainable aviation fuel in that transition . on 25 April , DFT publish a consultation on option for a revenue certainty mechanism alongside detail of the SAF mandate , which together will support both decarbonation and the growth of the sector . I call the Chair of the Energy Security and Net Zero Committee . tapadh , Mr Speaker . there be many criticism of the government — I be sure they be aware of they — that they be too slow and indecisive about give signal to the market for particular technology , which mean that , when they need to commission new energy , they be stick with only one option : gas , which , as we know , be not exactly the way to net zero . what will the Secretary of State be do to move thing a bit quick and give the market signal as to which energy path the UK will be take ? I remind the hon . Gentleman that we have one of the most remarkable record when it come to renewable energy . the only country that have build more offshore wind than we be China , we have set out the large expansion for nuclear , and we be at the forefront of cut - edge technology such as fusion , hydrogen and carbon capture . meet our net zero target , which will be extremely difficult and eye - wateringly expensive , have be enforce on my constituent . do the Secretary of State agree that we must be more honest and open about the enormous cost of net zero on the british taxpayer ? will the Government commit to publish a detailed analysis of those cost in advance of my Westminster Hall debate ? there be a balance to be strike , which I believe we be strike , in ensure that we can make the most of the job and opportunity of the energy transition , which will support up to 480 , 000 green job in 2030 . but , yes , when it come to additional cost , we be take a measured approach because we want to protect household . in the Climate Change Committee ' s late progress report , it be make clear : " there continue to be an overly narrow approach to solution , which crucially do not embrace the need to reduce demand for high - carbon activity . " so when the Secretary of State go back to the drawing board to revise the Government ' s carbon budget delivery plan , as she now must , will she finally reduce the reliance on unproven technofixe and look instead at demand reduction measure — or , follow the recent embarrassing judgment from the High Court , be she aim for a hat - trick , with her Department ' s climate plan declare unlawful for a third time ? I would find the hon . Lady ' s question more credible if she would at least once welcome the fact that we be the first country in the G20 to have halve emission . on our progress , I be proud that one of the reason that we have come so far be technological fix , because of the remarkable progress that this country have make in renewable energy . that be why we overshot on our first , second and third carbon budget , and we be on track to overshoot on our fourth . I call the shadow Secretary of State . two week ago the Government be find , for a second time , to be in breach of the law over their climate target . that failure will mean that family across the country will pay high energy bill . the Court find : " the Secretary of State ' s conclusion that the proposal and policy will enable the carbon budget to be meet be irrational " . last time , the Government claim that their breach of the law be just on a technicality . what be the right hon . Lady ' s " dog eat my homework " excuse this time ? let we be clear : the Court do not question the policy that we have set out , which we have do in more detail than any of our peer . it do not question the progress that we have already make , as the first G20 country in the world to halve emission , and it do not question the ambition of our future target , which be among the most ambitious of our peer . if the right hon . Gentleman want to look at what would smother the transition and private investment in this country , he need only look at his own mad , unachievable 2030 target . with a defence like that , I can see why the Government lose in court not just once but twice . bury in the court document be the confidential memo that reveal the real reason they lose the case — official be tell Ministers that they have low or very low confidence that half their carbon reduction would be achieve . that be why they be find unlawful . the right hon . Lady come to the House each month with her complacent nonsense , but the court judgment expose the truth : the Government be way off track , abysmally fail to meet the climate emergency and push up bill for family as a result . I have learn in this role that the right hon . Gentleman like to call people who disagree with he name . last week , representative from the Tony Blair Institute say that his plan would raise bill and harm our energy security . be they flat earther ? an industry report say last week say that his plan would see up to 100 , 000 people lose their job . be those people who be worried climate denier ? when will the right hon . Gentleman admit that his plan be base on fantasy and ideology and be the last thing that this country need ? Public Ownership of Energy System whether she have make an assessment of the potential merit of public ownership of the energy system . no . every family in Britain be pay the price for the Government ' s failure on energy , with bill through the roof while oil and gas profit have soar . a publicly own clean energy company would allow we to take back control of our energy , cut bill and create job across the UK . why be the Government let their ideological stubbornness get in the way of support family , when they could follow other , successful country and set up a publicly own clean energy company like great british Energy ? I thank the hon . Lady for her question , but I do not think that consumer will . the TUC itself have highlight the potential £ 61 billion to £ 82 billion cost that will be land either at the taxpayer ' s doorstep or directly on to consumer ’ bill , which be nothing to be thankful for . in 1985 , just before privatisation , 4 . 2 % of total consumer spending be on energy bill . between 2000 and 2020 , that drop to between 2 % and 3 % . even last year during the war in Ukraine , it only hit 3 . 6 % . do my hon . friend agree that , as he have already say , the suggestion from the hon . member for Blaydon ( Liz Twist ) would wallop consumer ? we have to work with business to secure investment . we have secure £ 300 billion for low - carbon technology since 2010 , as we boost UK energy production , our energy security and , ultimately , deliver cheap bill for consumer . I call the shadow Minister . when it come to who control and benefit from our energy system , why do the Government refuse to put the british people first ? as we have hear , foreign - own firm , whether France ' s EDF or Denmark ' s Ø rste , reap the reward of energy produce in Britain . as they benefit british people pay the price , expose to sky - high energy bill and beholden to volatile international price . why be the Minister so opposed to put power back into the hand of the british people ? there be not a single country around the world that think government alone can deliver increase energy security . by work with business , we can unlock the private investment to do it . and talk about irrational : imagine a career politician , the shadow Secretary of State , run UK energy . consumer bill would rocket . the Minister be completely miss the point , so I will use a real - world example . in Bristol , we have set up the 20 - year Bristol City Leap project with Ameresco and Vattenfall , a partnership between the public and private sector that will help the city to cut carbon dioxide , bring down bill and deliver green job . actually , the Government be pilot a similar project in York , because it have be such a success in Bristol . but why should it be Vattenfall , a 100 % swedish state - own firm , rather than a british equivalent , such as Labour ' s GB Energy , that benefit ? why can swedish taxpayer profit from invest in our future , but british taxpayer can not ? politician with zero business experience be high risk . it be not so long ago that the shadow energy security Minister highlight the success of Robin Hood Energy , back by Nottingham City Council , which deliver a £ 38 million loss . net Zero : cost - Benefit Analysis whether she have make a cost - benefit analysis of her net zero policy . our pragmatic , proportionate and realistic approach to meet net zero will capitalise on the opportunity of the low - carbon transition , create job and investment across the UK . the cost of net zero be be bear by our hard - press constituent , at the same time as China increase its carbon dioxide emission by more than the UK ' s total emission every year . wholesale electricity price be currently £ 65 per megawatt , but we be pay £ 102 per megawatt for fixed offshore wind , offer £ 246 for float offshore wind , £ 89 for onshore wind , and £ 85 for solar . can the Minister explain whatever happen to plentiful , cheap renewable energy ? the hon . Member and I agree that we must champion the importance of deliver cheap bill for consumer . this do not have to be a binary choice between tackle climate change and deliver cheap consumer bill . by invest in a clean , more efficient energy system , we can do both . I refer member to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . the benefit of renewable can not come at any cost . in that spirit , I welcome the commitment of the Secretary of State and in particular the Minister to protect food security through the additional protection of versatile and productive agricultural land . will the Minister also affirm the Government ' s determination to protect area that be particularly affect by energy infrastructure — pylon , wind and solar — such as the Lincolnshire fen , the Somerset level and Romney Marsh ? food security matter just as much as energy security in the national interest for the common good . we be proud to have take renewable from just 7 % under the last Labour Government to 47 % today , but my right hon . friend make a powerful point about the need to tackle cluster . the Secretary of State reiterate clear guideline and advice for local authority and plan committee up and down the country to make sure that we safeguard , wherever possible , our key agricultural land as part of our commitment on food security . community in Westmorland can not afford for we not to be reduce carbon emission . I think of community such as Kirkby Stephen , Appleby and Kendal , all of which be list as energy crisis hotspot . that mean they have below average income , but above average energy price . there be over 10 , 000 home in need of loft insulation and 6 , 940 home in need of cavity wall insulation in my community . will the Minister give resource to the excellent Cumbria Action for Sustainability to meet that need and decrease bill , and also perhaps revise the rule for ECO4 so the scheme well fit old home in rural area such as ours ? I thank the hon . member . as on football , we agree on the principle . the Government be proud to have take energy - efficient home from 14 % to 50 % . local initiative can play a key part in that and I would be interested to learn more about the project he highlight . Decarbonisation be welcome , but it must be achieve in a way that balance the country ' s other priority , such as food security . I welcome last week ' s statement from the Secretary of State about the importance of protect our good and most versatile farmland , but can the Minister tell I more about how he will ensure that we prioritise solar power on rooftop instead ? the Government be proud to have deliver an additional 43 GW of renewable energy since 2010 alone . we have also introduce planning change to make it easy to install solar panel on rooftop , include those of industrial building , and we can thank consumer for lead the way : an average of 17 , 000 household a month add solar panel to their roof last year . Energy Bills what step she be take to help reduce energy bill . what step her Department be take to support people with the cost of energy bill . what step she be take to help reduce energy price for consumer . what step she be take to help reduce energy bill . the price cap have fall by 60 % since the start of last year , and the Government be take a comprehensive approach to bring down future energy bill for consumer . that include reform electricity market to make they more effective , invest across the energy system to make it smart , and invest in energy efficiency to reduce cost for household . I thank the Minister for her answer , but I want she to understand that for constituent such as mine in Romford energy price be become completely unaffordable , and the Government need to do more . my constituent be also very concerned about the cost of net zero , and we need to know what that will cost they in year to come . surely the Government need to take the british people with they on these policy , but at present there be a great deal of scepticism . that be certainly one of the Department ' s aim . we be very conscious that we must get that energy security while also help all the vulnerable household — and non - domestic business — that need our support . a significant number of household in my constituency who be experience the continued impact of Russia ' s illegal invasion of Ukraine and unrest in the middle east have receive help in the form of the Government ' s cost of live support payment . those payment be welcome , but do the Minister agree that this important support should continue , along with more information about the help that be available and how to gain access to it ? my hon . friend be a great champion for his constituent , and of course I agree with he about the importance of ensure that householder know where to obtain information about what they may be able to receive , especially as we be provide they with £ 108 billion between 2022 and 2025 . I recommend that they visit the help for Households web page on gov . uk to find out what support they may be entitle to . many rural property on the Welsh border — include those in Clwyd South and in neighbouring north Shropshire — be not connect to main gas and therefore use oil or liquefied petroleum gas for heating , and many of the resident be unaware of the support that be available to help with their energy bill . can the Minister tell the House what support the Government be provide for those resident ? my hon . friend have raise an important issue . we be , of course , help all those household . the Government support about 3 million household use alternative fuel with the £ 200 alternative fuel payment in the winter of 2022 - 23 , and although energy price , include alternative fuel cost , have fall significantly since then , we be nevertheless commit to support all household with that £ 108 billion package between 2022 and 2025 . I have just have some solar panel fit to my roof and I be pleased to report that they be reduce my bill , but what more be the Government do to encourage people to produce their own electricity by mean of renewable , in order to reduce the pull on the grid and also reduce bill ? I be delighted to hear that my hon . friend have have those solar panel fit . she will be interested to hear that the Government be consider option to facilitate low - cost finance from retail lender to help household with the up - front cost of installation , and to drive rooftop deployment and energy efficiency measure . I know of too many case in which people whose property be connect to heat network be pay extremely high energy bill . I welcome the Department ' s response to the consultation on heat network , but the Energy Act 2023 only allow for secretary of State to introduce a price cap , at their discretion . some of my constituent be pay bill that be 13 time the level of the cap . will the Minister consider a mandatory cap to ensure fair price for heat network customer ? the hon . Lady make an important point . of course , the price cap be an issue for Ofgem . however , I would be interested to hear some of her suggestion and I be always happy to have a meeting on that particular subject . fuel and extreme fuel poverty across the highland and island be high than anywhere else in the UK , yet family there be force to pay the high electricity standing charge in the UK — 50 % more than in London , for example . that be despite the region export in excess of six time the amount of renewable electricity that it use . when will the Government introduce a highland energy rebate to ensure fairness for people across the highland and island ? the hon . Gentleman will know that we have have many conversation about this subject . one of the thing that the Secretary of State and I have be do be talk to Ofgem to make sure that it be look at the standing charge . that have lead to a call for input , which have recently have over 30 , 000 response . my constituent Beverley Scott , who have cancer , suffer from poor work carry out under the Government ' s ECO4 scheme . this include leave she without heating and damage her internet . she eventually have to go to the small claim court to get redress for shoddy work , and I know of other people who have have to follow the same route . give that provider company , enable by government strategy , leave vulnerable householder with no option but to go to court , do the Minister not agree that there should be well oversight and a simple remedy for people like Beverley Scott ? the right hon . Lady make an incredibly important point . of course , one of the thing that we be determined to do be make sure that those installation be carry out in the correct manner . in fact , we have new regulation in place to make sure that that happen go forward . the Minister will know that I be concerned about the level of stand charge in my constituency , as I have discuss this issue with she before . one of the problem be that people with pre - payment meter often find that , when they go to add the payment , the standing charge wipe everything out . can the Government and Ofgem find a way to provide more support for those on pre - payment meter to avoid that problem ? the hon . Lady and I have have many conversation about this issue . one of the thing that we have do be make sure that people who be on pre - payment meter be not unfairly penalise . I call the shadow Minister . the Minister and her colleague have repeatedly say today that they care about cut bill for family , but a recent report by the Resolution Foundation find that the onshore wind ban have hit the poor household ' income six time hard than that of the rich . such household have be force to pay additional electricity bill as a result of the total failure to build onshore wind in England . how on earth can minister continue to sit there and claim that they stand up for working family when they continue to block the cheap form of clean energy there be , which could cut bill for family who desperately need help ? before she leave office , will the Secretary of State pledge to put this right so that onshore wind can be build again and customer can save money on their future bill ? that be absolutely not the case . we stand here incredibly proudly as Ministers in the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero , and we have make a commitment . we be do more than have ever be do on renewable and offshore wind , and we have do more to help people with the affordability of their bill . Social Housing : Energy Efficiency what step she be take to help improve energy efficiency in social housing . the social housing decarbonisation fund be upgrade to EPC C a significant amount of the social housing stock that be currently below that standard . we have already commit over £ 1 billion of Government funding , with a furth £ 1 . 25 billion already commit for 2025 to 2028 . by how much have the Minister increase the level of insulation , and what significance do she attach to it ? I thank my right hon . friend for his brevity , as always . the amount of social housing that be well insulated have go up from just 24 % in 2010 to 70 % today . for housing overall , we have go from just 14 % in 2010 to 50 % today . I welcome , through the Minister , the admission by the Secretary of State last week finally that this flagship scheme be fail , although the word she use be that it have be " a bit slow on the uptake " . they have have 14 year to devise the most cost - effective way of reduce carbon emission and people ' s bill , make home warm and create good new skilled job . when will we have a scheme that actually work ? I respectfully say to the right hon . Gentleman that we do have scheme that be work . I remind he that the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero have launch a £ 1 billion great british installation scheme , which aim to upgrade around 300 , 000 of the country ' s least energy - efficient home . I call the SNP spokesperson . the Scottish Government be work at pace to replace pollute heating system and improve energy efficiency in Scotland ' s build stock , with £ 1 . 8 billion be invest in this parliamentary session towards heat and energy efficiency measure and £ 600 million towards new affordable housing . with the Climate Change Committee state that the Scottish Government ' s heat in building Bill could become the template for the UK , help Scotland to decarbonise fast than anywhere else in the UK , would the Minister like to visit the Scottish Government in Edinburgh ? I can arrange that for she , so that she can see climate leadership in action . I reiterate that energy efficiency be incredibly important to we on the Government Benches and to the Government . I would be happy to come on a visit to Edinburgh . indeed , I have already visit there . slightly more enthusiasm might have be welcome by people live in England in cold and draughty house . nevertheless , it be not simply our extensive ambition that leave the UK behind Scotland , but our delivery , too . since 2007 — [ interruption . ] those on the Government Benches might want to listen to this . since 2007 , per person , the SNP have build 40 % more home than Tory England and 70 % more home than Labour Wales and ensure 65 % of the scottish social rent sector have an energy performance certificate rating of C or above . insulation level in Scotland be way high than in England . it be clear that the UK Government have materially fail to abate the demand side of the energy system to any meaningful extent . what will the Minister do , in the few week they have leave in office , to atone for this glaring betrayal of bill payer ? unlike the hon . Gentleman , we have not abandon our target , and there have be good progress and improved household energy efficiency . around half of our home — 48 % in England — have now reach the Government ' s 2035 target of achieve an EPC rating of C , up from 14 % in 2010 . Climate Change what step her Department be take to tackle climate change . Britain be the first major economy to halve emission , while grow the economy by 80 % . we have more ambitious target for 2030 than the EU , with the UK aim for a 68 % reduction in emission , compare with its 55 % . we have over - achieve on all carbon budget to date and remain on track for the next . at COP28 , the UK , alongside nearly 200 country , agree to the transition away from fossil fuel . since then , the Government have recklessly grant new oil and gas licence and push legislation through this House to max out North sea fossil fuel . will the Minister meet the 50 cross - party parliamentarian who last week sign a letter urge the Government to show climate leadership and join the Beyond Oil and Gas Allowance , which aim to phase out oil and gas production ahead of COP29 ? I thank the hon . member for raise that important issue . that be why we be proud that we have already take 70 % out of the oil and gas sector . hydrotreated vegetable oil be a good alternative to rip out heating system that already exist in rural home . we have hear today about the cost to rural home as we try to address the impact of use less fossil fuel . will the Government get behind the opportunity for HVO in rural community to give householder a chance to contribute to reduce harmful emission in their home ? my hon . friend have always champion his local constituent to ensure that they get value for money . we must explore all potential option , local or national , to find the good way to deliver energy security and low bill in future . District Heating Network consumer what assessment she have make of the adequacy of financial support for district heating network consumer . the evaluation of our energy support scheme will conclude in summer 2025 . to ensure their bill be fair , support heat network customer receive an average of £ 1 , 200 via the energy discount scheme , which close last month . that be rather disappointing . I have more than 100 constituent in the Greendykes area of Edinburgh who get their heating and hot water from a communal district heating scheme . the Government have refuse to offer they price protection , say instead that this should be regulate by the business regulation scheme , but that end on 31 March , leave those people with no protection at all and face increase of up to 500 % in their energy bill . my constituent want to know : why do the Government wait until the business scheme finish before consider alternative protection for these domestic customer ? why take a year to get they protect and what compensation be the Government go to offer in the meantime ? I hear the passion with which the hon . Gentleman stand up for his constituent , and rightly so , give the circumstance that they find themselves in . we be introduce regulation with Ofgem power to investigate and intervene where price for consumer appear to be unfair , and to ensure that all heat network consumer receive a high - quality service from their provider . I be happy to meet he to discuss this in great detail . district heating network be a good innovation and the Government have a good record of stimulate these project around the country , but the hon . member for Edinburgh East ( Tommy Sheppard ) be right to say that the regulation in this area need look at . can I reassert what he have just say and ask the Minister to carefully come forward with protection to ensure that consumer on shared heating network be not at a disadvantage compare with people who pay their bill directly ? I be pleased to give that assurance to my hon . friend . as I have say , we be talk to Ofgem right now about introduce regulation to make this much fair and simple and to ensure that consumer on heat network get the service that they deserve . Berwick Bank Wind Farm what discussion she have have with the Scottish Government on the Berwick Bank wind farm project . the planning decision be devolve to the Scottish Government . official will work together to resolve cross - border matter . the UK Government be commit to effective co - operation with the Scottish Government on this and other issue , support our share energy security and net zero objective . I thank the Minister for his answer and for the promise that official will work together , but he will be aware that this be a 4 . 1 GW renewable project that could be the large offshore wind farm in the world , deliver over £ 8 billion to the UK economy . the only reason that it be not eligible for this year ' s contract for difference auction be the Scottish Government ' s failure to make a decision on consent for the project . have the Minister or anyone in his Department speak to Scottish Ministers about the impact of this decision on investment in our economy , and to ensure that the consenting for offshore wind process be speed up so that we do not miss out on the ten of billion of investment and the thousand of job that a project such as this would deliver ? the UK Government work closely and collaboratively with the Scottish Government on a whole host of area , especially energy security and net zero . however , this be a live planning issue , and whether it be in the jurisdiction of Westminster or Holyrood , we do not comment on live planning case give their quasi - judicial status . Nuclear Energy Capacity what step she be take to increase nuclear energy capacity . the civil nuclear road map reconfirm the Government ' s ambition to deploy up to 24 GW of nuclear power by 2050 . the road map set out plan to make investment decision concern 3 GW to 7 GW every five year between 2030 and 2044 . clearly it be important to have a mixed economy in term of energy production , and nuclear have to play its part . what action be my hon . friend take to ensure that the development of small modular nuclear reactor be enhance and bring forward , because that be the fast way to get nuclear energy into our network ? I completely agree with my hon . friend . the small modular reactor technology selection process — the fast of its kind in the world , I might add — continue to progress quickly and be currently in the tender phase , allow vendor to bid for potentially multibillion - pound technology development contract . company will have until June to submit their tender response , at which point great British Energy will evaluate bid and negotiate final contract . the aim be to announce successful bid later this year . the Minister be always quick and keen to ensure that all part of this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland have advantage . when it come to the technology to which the question refer , when will Northern Ireland get the same advantage ? as the hon . Gentleman know , I be keen to ensure that every part of our great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland benefit from the expansion of nuclear power and the benefit that it can bring , not only for meet our net zero objective but for the economy in which these small modular reactor will be build . I would be happy to meet he at any time to explore what benefit can be accrue in Northern Ireland from the expansion of our nuclear capacity here in the UK . Carbon Budget Delivery plan : high Court Judgment what assessment she have make of the potential implication for her policy of the High Court judgment of 3 May 2024 relate to the Government ' s carbon budget delivery plan . the Government be immensely proud of our record on climate change . we have cut emission fast than any other G20 country over the last decade . the judgment contain no criticism of our detailed plan or the policy themselves , which will keep the UK on track to meet net zero by 2050 . the Government have a legal and moral duty to meet our carbon emission target . failure to do so would consign my generation , and generation after mine , to a future of climate catastrophe , so it be beyond a joke that the Government ' s carbon budget delivery plan have now be rule unlawful , not just once but twice . when will the Minister tell the flat earther sit behind he to stop try to make net zero a culture war issue , and instead deliver a transition that both meet our climate obligation and improve people ' s living standard ? our carbon budget delivery plan have over 300 detailed policy . we be recognise as a leader internationally , have already cut emission by half — the first major economy to do so — with a far ambitious target to get to 68 % by 2030 , compare with just 55 % for the shadow Secretary of State ' s beloved EU . Prepayment Meters : Compensation what estimate she have make of the number of household receive compensation after be involuntarily fit with prepayment meter . the energy supplier be responsible for pay compensation . they have carry out 150 , 000 assessment so far , with 2 , 500 customer due compensation . a total of 1 , 502 payment have be make , with 1 , 000 more planned . despite the energy ombudsman rule that one of my constituent should not have be place on a prepayment meter due to her vulnerability , she have not be award a penny of compensation under the scheme . as the Minister have just outline , only 1 , 500 people , out of 150 , 000 , have have any compensation award at all . that be 1 % , so why be the number so small ? could it be that the energy supplier themselves , oversee by Ofgem , be decide who be entitle to these payment ? both sit idly by as agent force their way into people ' s home to install the prepayment meter . I thank the hon . gentleman for his question and for the opportunity to provide clarity . the forced installation of prepayment meter be clearly unacceptable , and the Government have do everything we can to counteract it . however , I reiterate that 150 , 000 investigation be carry out , in 2 , 500 of those case compensation be due and , instead of 1 % , the actual figure on compensation be 60 % . Fuel Poverty what estimate she have make of the number of household that be in fuel poverty in winter 2023 - 24 . the policy on fuel poverty be devolve . statistic for England estimate that 3 . 17 million household be in fuel poverty in 2023 , which be more than 1 . 5 million few than in 2010 . the good way to cut fuel poverty be through a nationwide home upgrade scheme , but the Secretary of State seem unaware of the reality when it come to home upgrade . her official say in recent document give to the High Court that progress to decarbonise the UK ' s build stock have be slow , that policy gap remain and that the Government be lag behind . why will she not admit in public what her Department tell she in private ? this Government be commit to make sure that we not only get energy efficiency but support people with their energy bill . thank to Government grant , a social housing provider in my Chelmsford constituency , CHP , have make some great investment in social housing to help energy efficiency , reduce bill and low fuel poverty , but it would like to go far . will the Minister discuss with I the way in which we can help to share the benefit of those saving so that some of they can be invest in improve energy efficiency and lower bill in even more home ? my right hon . friend make the important point that energy efficiency be crucial to lower bill . that be why we have the social housing decarbonisation fund , which support local authority and housing association in upgrade social housing stock below energy performance certificate level c . net Zero : business and investor what recent discussion she have have with business and investor on the Government ' s net zero target . our Department ' s ministerial team meet regularly with industry , for example through the hydrogen investor forum , the Offshore Wind Industry Council , the solar taskforce , the green job delivery group , and the cross - cut Net Zero Council . last week , Stellantis , the owner of the Vauxhall car plant in Ellesmere Port , announce that it would import electric vehicle , despite the fact that we produce some great electric van in Ellesmere Port and want to move on to produce car there as well . do the Minister think that , over the long term , reach our net zero target through the import of cheap chinese vehicle will be a good or bad thing for the UK car industry ? the hon . member raise a very important point . one of the Opposition ' s main pledge , which be to fully decarbonise the grid by 2030 , could be meet only by open the floodgate to cheap chinese import — the exact thing he be oppose to . many unwelcome application for large - scale solar farm , such as Lime Down in my constituency , be fund by offshore company such as Macquarie , which be most famous for let Thames Water fall to piece . what meeting have the Minister have with these speculative investor to ensure that the people who build solar farm will be there in 40 year to make sure that they be remove ? my hon . friend and constituency neighbour raise an important point about speculative development . as part of speed up the grid queue , in which we have somewhere in the region of 700 GW of power capacity come forward , we wish to prioritise shovel - ready scheme , not speculative scheme . topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . since I be last at the Dispatch Box , we have be build up Britain ' s energy security . we have take the next step in the big expansion of nuclear in 70 year , make Britain a producer of advanced nuclear fuel and push Putin out of the global energy market . just today , Rolls - Royce announce that it will invest million of pound in bring new job to Sheffield to manufacture small modular reactor . we have overachieve in our third carbon budget , which be keep we on track to reach net zero , and we be build on our proud record of be the first major economy to halve emission . we have invest over half a billion pound to help cut energy cost and bill for school and hospital , and we be take our next step on PumpWatch to protect motorist from unfair price . late figure by National Energy Action show that there be still 1 , 875 home in my constituency with legacy prepayment meter . what action be the Government take to remove this costly burden on family ? I thank the hon . Lady for her question . during my career , I have look at the issue of prepayment meter for a long time , and one of the thing that I be proud of be our take out the premium that people on prepayment meter be pay . I welcome Ofgem ' s ongoing review of stand charge in electricity bill . in the North Wales and Merseyside region , the standing charge be 67 . 04p per day , compare to an average of 60 . 10p across the UK . will the Minister commit to come back to the House to provide further comment on this geographical variation once Ofgem have publish the finding of its review ? my hon . friend make an important point and be right to pick up on this matter . I reassure he that I have encourage and push Ofgem to do more on this issue . electricity standing charge include network cost , which reflect the cost of maintain and upgrade the transmission and distribution network across the country . I be of course happy to meet he to discuss this subject far . I call the shadow Minister . the National Infrastructure Commission say that the Government have reverse some progress on net zero . the right hon . member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) say that the Government ' s roll - back on net zero have put off investor . a member of the Climate Change Committee have say that we be " not ready at all " for the impact of extreme weather on our national security . mad , bad and dangerous . will the Secretary of State finally back great British Energy and the national wealth fund instead of lurch from crisis to crisis , not have a plan and sell out Britain ? we absolutely will not be back put the shadow Secretary of State in charge of UK and british energy company , pile misery on to consumer bill . we have unlock £ 300 billion of public and private investment in low - carbon technology since 2010 , with plan for £ 100 billion more by 2030 . last year alone , we see an investment of £ 60 billion ; that be up a staggering 71 % on the previous year . I know the Secretary of State understand the importance of safeguard good agricultural land for food production . will she update my constituent in Inkberrow and Stock Green on what more she be do to ensure that solar panel be place on car park and warehouse rooftop , which we have an ample number of in my constituency ? my hon . friend be absolutely right that we need to protect the good and most versatile agricultural land in this country . unlike the opposition , we respect the view of community up and down this country , and we will not countenance the industrialisation of our countryside . however , solar power remain very important . we be committed to our 70 GW target . in our forthcoming solar road map , we will set out exactly how we will incentivise the development of rooftop solar , and development on brownfield and other site . private investor be queue up to make billion of pound of investment in the green industry of the future , but under this government , that money have flow abroad . under Energy UK ' s projection , the UK be now eighth out of eight major country for renewable investment up to 2030 . how have the Government allow that to happen ? that be simply not the case ; we be lead internationally . last year alone , there be £ 60 billion of funding for low - carbon technology ; that be up 71 % on the previous year . that be why other country turn to our business and supply chain for their expertise — and to we , as we be lead with our policy framework . the switch to electric car and van be crucial for improve air quality and reach net zero . will the Government update we on action be take to deliver charge point in the right place , in consultation with resident ? [ r ] the Government have invest in the Faraday battery challenge , a £ 541 million programme to support the research , development and scale - up of world - lead battery technology in the UK . since 2022 , all new home and home undergo major renovation in England have be require to have a charge point instal . that be why we welcome the year - on - year 49 % increase in charge point . will the Minister confirm whether the Government have drop their commitment to consult on a social energy tariff ? if they have not , can we have an update on progress , give that a social energy tariff would lift 2 . 2 million household out of poverty ? a social tariff mean lot of different thing to different people , but what it ultimately mean be ensure that we support all vulnerable people . the hon . member will be aware that the Government be do many thing to support people ; there be the warm home discount , the cost of live payment , which be £ 900 , and a variety of other measure . while it be important that we support renewable energy source , do the Minister agree with I that solar panel should go on rooftop , not on farmland ? as my hon . friend have hear I say already today , solar power be important , and we remain committed to our 70 GW target . however , food security be as important as energy security when it come to national security . that be why we be protect the good and most versatile farmland in the United Kingdom . unlike the opposition , we respect the view of community up and down the country ; we will ensure that our countryside be not industrialise , and incentivise company , individual and organisation to invest in rooftop solar , and solar on brownfield , not greenfield , site . do the Minister think that a regulator that allow the poor to pay the high bill , and that have oversee the doubling of energy bill since 2021 and the collapse of 30 energy company in the same period , be fit for purpose ? we be ensure that energy business be able to survive , and not just through the price cap . this be also a matter for Ofgem . my constituency be home to Scout Moor , one of the large onshore wind farm in Europe , but the north - west also have amazing potential for offshore wind ; an example be the Morgan and Morecambe development off the coast of Lancashire . such project require huge amount of infrastructure to be realise . notwithstanding the reassurance that my right hon . friend have already give , will she ensure that community consent be part of any infrastructure project of this kind ? my hon . friend raise an important matter . absolutely ; that be part of our forward planning in make sure that we can unlock the huge potential in every region of our United Kingdom . under Ofgem ' s price cap , which have just come into effect , people with the most poorly insulate rural home can expect to pay an additional £ 340 on their annual energy bill . will the Minister expand insulation scheme , particularly for people live in rural area ? the hon . Gentleman ' s question cover a few issue . one of the most important thing be to look at how the standing charge be make up . that be why we have encourage Ofgem to answer our call for input . insulation scheme be incredibly important as well , which be why the Government be commit to support so many of they . Hydrogen be the only viable alternative to natural gas for a balanced , reactive and carbon - zero electricity grid . the UK have 32 gas power plant , all of which could be cheaply and easily retrofit to burn hydrogen as a natural gas . what be the Department do to encourage this sort of retrofitting , so that we can allow technology to decarbonise electricity generation and take advantage of the many benefit of hydrogen ? I thank my hon . friend for that rather surprising question on hydrogen . the Government recognise the value of hydrogen in support a decarbonised and secure power system . we intend to publish soon our response to the December 2023 hydrogen - to - power market intervention consultation , and we will soon legislate for decarbonisation readiness requirement , so that new - build or substantially refurbish combustion power plant be build net zero ready . in the last 12 month , one in five household , or one in four young household , in energy debt have turn to illegal money lender to help pay for bill and everyday essential . the end Fuel Poverty Coalition have state that the crisis could mean that young household spend year at the mercy of these loan shark . what assessment have the Minister make of the merit of work with Ofgem and energy supplier in order to introduce support to alleviate this record - high energy debt ? the hon . Member make an incredibly important point , and I have have many conversation with she on this matter . I can reassure she that I meet Ofgem regularly to discuss this , as the issue be very close to my heart — hence the call for input . to give her further reassurance , I can tell she that early this week , I meet energy supplier , and I also have ongoing meeting with Citizens Advice and other stakeholder . like other , I welcome what the Government have already do to extend the permit development right for rooftop solar and car park canopy , but may I encourage my hon . friend to tell other in Government who have responsibility for plan that there be considerable benefit to car park canopy , particularly in hotter summer ? I thank my right hon . and learn Friend for his question . I urge he to bide his time and have patience , because in the next few week we will publish our solar road map , which will expand on exactly how we will work with other Government Departments , and indeed industry , to ensure that we benefit from the huge advantage that we have in the number of rooftop available for the deployment of solar capacity across the UK . there have indeed be a significant increase in domestic insulation scheme in recent year . however , will the Minister agree to increase the number of conversation with devolved institution , so that we can see a genuinely nationwide revival of insulation scheme that , individually , can do more to reduce the dependency on high energy cost for those at maximum risk , in social housing and elsewhere ? clearly , energy efficiency be incredibly important , which mean that make sure that we get the correct insulation scheme be also incredibly important . I give the hon . Gentleman my assurance that we be do everything we can to ensure that that insulation take place . give the float offshore wind manufacture investment scheme funding recently award to Wales , can the Minister please advise I on when A & P Falmouth , which be to be a vital part of the supply chain for the only successful project in allocation round 4 , will be put on the reserve list ? the Minister have promise to meet I on several occasion . can I ask that we expedite that much as possible ? I would be delighted to meet my hon . friend to discuss this matter . indeed , I be determined to ensure that port that be not successful in the FLOWMIS process can take advantage of the huge increase that we expect in the deployment of float offshore wind capacity off the coast of the United Kingdom . I be happy to meet my hon . friend and , indeed , any other Member of Parliament who represent a port that be not successful through the FLOWMIS procedure to discuss how we can move this forward . community energy can deliver so many renewable energy product and save on energy bill . last year in Bath , a community energy project put rooftop solar on school save school £ 130 , 000 . when will the Government remove the barrier to community energy ? as a result of the Energy Act 2023 , we launch a consultation and a multimillion - pound fund to help to support the expansion of community energy across the United Kingdom . it would be great to have the Liberal Democrats ’ support in the effort that this party and this Government be make to ensure that the benefit of community energy be feel up and down the length and breadth of the country . as we go to net zero , surely we also need to retain our sense of human right . Polysilicon mostly come from Xinjiang , where it be mine use slave labour . to what extend be we prepared to say that net zero trump slave labour , and be we check on slave labour product in the array ? I can assure my right hon . friend that we be indeed ensure that the extent to which slave labour be use be keep very much at a minimum , if at all , in the supply chain of any of the component come to advance we towards net zero . the solar road map , as refer to early , will set out in great detail how the Government will work with industry to ensure that there be no slave labour component to any of the part we be import to develop our renewable technology . my constituent from Govanhill be be pass backwards and forwards between Utilita Energy and the Department for Work and Pensions . he receive income - relate employment and support allowance and should be entitle to the warm home discount , but neither Utilita nor the DWP be able to give he the money he be entitle to . he apply in September last year . will the Minister intervene and make sure he get the money he be due ? I encourage the hon . Lady to write to I on this particular issue and I will look into it . I put on record my heartfelt thank to the Secretary of State and the Minister for Nuclear and Renewables for the action they take last week to put food security , alongside renewable energy , at the heart of local planning decision . what be the Government do to ensure that all council immediately enact that policy , because it be both for local council and for Government ? will exist soil assessment stand for nationally significant infrastructure project , or will they be redo ? I thank my hon . friend for her question and her kind word . I be pleased to confirm to the House that my hon . friend the Minister for Housing , Planning and Building Safety have write to all local authority to draw their attention to the statement last week , which underline our robust policy on solar farm on our good and most versatile agricultural land . local planner should know this Government be serious about solar be put in the right place , and not on the good and most versatile agricultural land . I call the Chair of the Energy Security and Net Zero Committee . tapadh leat , Mr Speaker . zonal pricing have the potential to low bill for household from Sussex to Shetland , from Stonehaven to the great town of Stornoway . of course some vested interest will be concern , such as energy generating company that be benefit from the constraint payment raise from customer bill . what be the Government do to stimulate debate and knowledge about zonal pricing ? it be a pleasure on my return as a Minister to attend the hon . Gentleman ' s Select Committee , which he chair so well . this be part of stage 2 of our wide consultation under our review of electricity market arrangement , and we take on board his and his Committee ' s constructive suggestion in that meeting . a key tool in our arsenal against climate change must be sequester carbon . it be a pleasure last week to see the Morecambe bay net zero peak cluster vision launch , which could decarbonise 40 % of our cement and lime industry , secure a gigatonne of carbon under Morecambe bay . can I encourage my hon . friend the Minister to meet I to discuss the project far ? I would be delighted to meet my hon . friend at any time , and I be happy to discuss this and any other matter relate to the subject . with the final question , I call Sir John Hayes . thank you , Mr Speaker . now that the Government have recognise the importance of versatile and productive agricultural land in respect of solar , will they recognise too the threat of a monstrous string of pylon stretch right down the east coast of England ? we either care about our green and pleasant land or we do not — for , as Keats understand , truth be beauty and beauty , truth . my right hon . friend will know that we value take community with we and work with they . I be have a number of meeting on this very subject to look at new technology to see what additional option there could be to support local community as we rapidly upgrade our national grid network . infected Blood Compensation Scheme before I call the Minister , I should say that he will take long than be usual for a statement , and I totally agree with the extra time . I be just let the other Front Benchers know that there will be some extra time . with permission , Mr Speaker , I would like to make a statement follow the final report of the infected blood inquiry . yesterday , the Prime Minister speak about the anguish that the infected blood scandal bring to those impact by it . I want to reiterate his word and apologise again today . I be sorry . the Prime Minister also speak , on behalf of the whole House , of our gratitude to Sir Brian Langstaff and his team for complete his comprehensive report — seven volume and 2 , 500 page — and of our appreciation of all those who come forward as part of the inquiry . it be the great privilege of my ministerial career to meet over 40 representative of the infected blood community , in Cardiff , Edinburgh , Belfast , Birmingham and Leeds , as we finalise our response to compensation for this appalling tragedy . the whole community ' s bravery through immense suffering be what have enable justice today . I know that many of they will be watch from the Public Gallery . I want to honour their fortitude through their unimaginable pain , as I lie out a more detailed response to Sir Brian ' s second interim report on compensation . we will provide the House with a further opportunity to debate the inquiry ' s full report after the Whitsun recess . the Government will also respond to each recommendation in full , as quickly as possible , within our comprehensive response to the report . the Prime Minister confirm yesterday that the Government will pay comprehensive compensation to those who have be infect and affect as a result of this scandal . I will now set out to the House the scheme that the Government be propose , and of course , more detail of the scheme will be publish online today . we be establish the Infected Blood Compensation Authority — an arm ' s length body — to administer the scheme . a shadow body have already be set up , and an interim chief executive officer have be appoint . today , I be delighted to announce the appointment of Sir Robert Francis at the interim chair of the organisation . the experience and care that Sir Robert will bring to the role will ensure that the scheme be credible and trust by the community . his support in deliver the scheme will be invaluable . those who have be infect or affect as a result of this scandal will receive compensation . to be crystal clear , if you have be directly or indirectly infect by NHS blood , blood product or tissue contaminate with HIV or hepatitis C , or have develop a chronic infection from blood contaminate with hepatitis B , you will be eligible to claim compensation under the scheme , and where an infected person have die but would have be eligible under those criterion , compensation will be pay to their estate . this will include where a person be infect with hepatitis B and die during the acute period of infection . but , Mr Speaker , Sir Brian could not have be clear : it be not just the harm cause by the infection that require compensation . the wrong suffer by those affect must also be compensate for , so when a person with an eligible infection have be accept on to the scheme , their affected love one will be able to apply for compensation in their own right . that mean that partner , parent , sibling , child , friend and family who have act as carer for those who be infect be all eligible to claim . I be aware that be ask to provide evidence of eligibility will likely be distress , so I be determined to minimise that distress as much as possible . I be pleased to confirm today that anyone already register with one of the exist infected blood support scheme will automatically be consider eligible for compensation . I also give thank for the dedication and hard work of Professor Sir Jonathan Montgomery and the other member of the expert group , who be critical in advise on how the Government could faithfully translate Sir Brian ' s recommendation for the purpose of the scheme . in line with our previous commitment , we will publish the name of those expert today . in his report , Sir Brian recommend that compensation be award with respect to the follow five category : an injury impact award , acknowledge the physical and mental injury cause by the infection ; a social impact award , to address the stigma or social isolation result from the infection ; an autonomy award , acknowledge how family and private life be disrupt during this time ; a care award , to compensate for the past and future care need of anyone infect ; and finally a financial loss award , for past and future financial loss suffer as a result of the infection . the Government accept this recommendation with two small refinement , inform by the work of the expert group and design for simplicity and speed , two other principle that Sir Brian assert . first , the care award will be directly award to the person with the infection , or to their estate . secondly , the financial loss award will be pay either directly to the person with the infection , or — where an infected person have tragically die before the establishment of the scheme — to their estate and to affected person who be dependent on they . sadly , many people have link to multiple individual who be infect , or be both infect themselves and affect by another ' s infection . as such , multiple injury award will be offer to reflect the scale of the loss and suffering . the scheme will be tariff - base , and we will be publish an explanatory document on gov . uk , include example of propose tariff . however , this be not the end : over the next few week , Sir Robert Francis will seek view from the infected blood community on the propose scheme before its term be set in regulation , to make sure the scheme will well serve those who it be intend for . Sir Robert have welcome the Government ' s proposal as positive and meaningful , and he will set out more detail on engagement with the community shortly . the inquiry recommend that the scheme should be flexible in its award of compensation , provide for either a lump sum or regular payment . we agree , which be why the award to live infected or affected person will be offer as either a lump sum or as periodical payment . where the infected person have die , estate representative will receive compensation as a single lump sum to distribute to beneficiary of the estate , as be appropriate . we will also guarantee that any payment make to those eligible will be exempt from income , capital gain and inheritance tax , as well as disregard they from mean - test benefit assessment . we will also ensure that all claimant be able to appeal against their award both through an internal review process in the Infected Blood Compensation Authority and , where need , with a right to appeal to a first - tier tribunal . our expectation be that final payment will start before the end of the year , and if you permit , Mr Speaker , I would like to return to the House when the regulation be lay later this year to make a further statement with an update on the delivery of the compensation scheme . I know from my discussion with the community just how important the exist infected blood support scheme payment be to they . I recognise that many people , sadly , rely on these payment , and they be rightly keen to understand what the Government ' s intention be . I want to provide reassurance to all those out there today that no immediate change will be make to the support scheme . payment will continue to be make at the same level until 31 March 2025 , and they will not be deduct from any of these compensation award . from 1 April 2025 , any support scheme payment receive will be count towards a beneficiary ' s final compensation award . this will ensure parity between support scheme beneficiary regardless of whether they be the first or the last to have their compensation assess by the Infected Blood Compensation Authority . we will ensure that no one — no one — receive less in compensation than they would have receive in support payment . I recognise that each week member of the infected blood community be die from their infection . there may be people — indeed , there will be people — listen today who be think to themselves that they may not live to receive compensation , so I want to address those concern , too . today , I be announce that the Government will be make further interim payment ahead of the establishment of the full scheme . payment of £ 210 , 000 will be make to live infect beneficiary — those register with exist infected blood support scheme as well as those who register with a support scheme before the final scheme become operational — and to the estate of those who pass away between now and payment be make . I know that time be of the essence , which be why I be also pleased to say that they will be deliver within 90 day , start in the summer , so that they can reach those who most need it so urgently . before I conclude , I would like to turn to the matter of memorialisation . many of those who be infect by contaminate blood or blood product have since die — die without know that their suffering and loss would be fully recognise either in their lifetime or at all . the life of most of those who have die remain unrecognised . I note Sir Brian ' s recommendation on memorialisation across the UK , and the Government will address those recommendation in detail as part of our wide response to this report . in conclusion , I know that the whole House will want to join I in thank Sir Brian and the inquiry for the work that they have do , and pay tribute to all those who have be catch up in this terrible tragedy and who have battle for justice for so long . yesterday be a day of great humility for everyone implicate in this inquiry , and today I can only hope that , with the publication of the inquiry report and with our firm commitment to compensate those touch by this scandal , the infected blood community know that their cry for justice have be hear . I commend this statement to the House . rise — order . lot of Members want to get in , and all member will get in . I now come to the shadow Minister . the infected blood scandal be one the grave injustice in our history , and a profound moment of shame for the british state . yesterday , the Leader of the opposition apologise on behalf of Labour government of the past , and the Prime Minister do the same on behalf of all government and the country . I join they today in say a deep and heartfelt sorry . the scale of the horror that be uncover by Sir Brian Langstaff ' s report almost defy belief . that be why I pay tribute to the victim of this scandal , who fight so hard for justice . we thank the charity , and the remarkable campaigning work of my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) , as well as the Father of the House , and the journalist Caroline Wheeler , whose work and book , " death in the blood " , do so much to drive this issue forward . I also recognise the significance of the decision make by the former Prime Minister , the right hon . member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) , in establish the public inquiry . I thank Sir Brian Langstaff and all his staff for their forensic work . I also thank the Minister for regularly brief I , and for his work in government ahead of today . one of the most powerful conclusion in this report be that an apology be meaningful only if it be accompany by action , and it be that I turn to now . I welcome the further interim payment that the Minister have announce , and I repeat our commitment to work on a cross - party basis , and help to deliver the compensation scheme and get the final money to victim as soon as possible . I welcome the further detail that the Minister have give , include the appointment of the interim chair . Sir Robert Francis be say already that he be seek the view of the infected blood community , and that be welcome , but do the Minister agree that continue to hear that voice of victim be crucial ? I also welcome payment be make under the five head of loss to the infected and the affected . will the Minister confirm that estimate of the total cost have now be make , and that there will be no undue delay in those final payment reach victim ? time be of the essence : one victim die every four day . will the Minister set out more detail about how the personal representative of estate will be handle as part of the scheme ? will he also confirm that plan be in place to trace additional people who might be eligible for compensation ? will he say a little more about when we can expect a progress report on Sir Brian Langstaff ' s other 11 recommendation , beyond the establishment of the compensation body ? I add my support , and that of all Labour Members , to the consideration of appropriate and fitting memorial across the different part of the UK and , as Sir Brian Langstaff recommend , for victim who be treat at Treloar ' s . on potential criminal charge , will the Minister ensure that all relevant evidence be make available for consideration by the prosecute authority and any other necessary support provide ? Sir Brian Langstaff ' s finding on institutional defensiveness , and on put the reputation of people and protect institution above public service , follow on from other scandal such as Hillsborough and Horizon . that be why we must deliver a duty of candour and the political leadership that we need to replace that culture of defensiveness with openness and transparency . Sir Brian Langstaff ' s report challenge we all to make progress on his recommendation . that be what we must now come together to do . the victim deserve nothing less . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his collegiate tone and for the constructive approach he have take throughout our conversation and in his response this afternoon . I totally embrace the need to continue the dialogue with victim . that be why I be pleased that Sir Robert Francis agree to take on that role , have do the study into compensation . we have obviously meet a number of time , and I have explain to he what Jonathan Montgomery and the expert panel do . I be pleased that he have get to a point where he be sufficiently satisfied to move forward in this way . as the Prime Minister make clear yesterday , there be no restriction on the budget , and where we need to pay we will pay . we will minimise delay and address the recommendation of Sir Brian Langstaff with respect to speed and efficiency , remove as much complexity as possible . the right hon . Gentleman ask about the representative of different estate and trace additional claimant . those will be matter that the interim chief executive and interim chair will look at carefully . I envisage through the month of June an exercise to engage meaningfully with representative of the community , to look at some of the assumption in the work of that expert panel , which will inform the regulation that we be duty bind to bring to the House within three month of the Victims and Prisoners Bill receive Royal Assent . some of the other matter about appropriate memorialisation , criminal charge and duty of candour , on some of which progress be be make in different way , be probably well leave to some of my colleague at a subsequent point . as I say , I anticipate that we will have an early opportunity to discuss those matter in full , in a debate soon after the Whitsun recess . I call the Father of the House . the House will understand that my remark will be subsidiary to those of the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) . it be 36 year since I be with the first of my friend who I know have be infect , and 33 year since that person die . friendship get fractured , and family be change forever . one point that I hope my right hon . friend the Minister will put to his fellow Ministers in the Department of Health and Social Care regard whether those who be still infect in some way can have a kind of national health service passport , so that when they go to get medical attention they be not ask the same question that my constituent be ask every time : " how much have you be drink ? why be your liver the way it be ? " and all the rest . it be important that young clinician understand that when they see haemophilia or a whole blood infection , they can take for grant a lot of thing that do not need to be ask . that humanity need to be spread . I recognise that my right hon . friend have build on the work of our right hon . friend the Member for Horsham ( Sir Jeremy Quin ) , and perhaps I may say in a cross - party way that Sue Gray deserve respect for when she lead civil servant in that , as do her successor in the civil service who be put thing right . my final point be this : people be not be award lottery sum , although in some way they make up for some of the loss and recognise some of the hurt . for some family who may not have be use to have much money around — indeed , most of they be use to have very little money because of the consequence of infection — there may need to be mediation service in case they do not agree . it would be a good idea if Sir Robert , or other , could consider whether such service could be make available , in the same way that other people who have suddenly come into some degree of money can get some kind of help . family sometimes do not find it easy to decide how money should be share . I thank my hon . friend for his comment , and I pay tribute to he for the work that he have do and for his constructive engagement with I over the past six month , and over many previous year . he make the point about his friend and the stigma that some of the victim have have to endure , which be why injury and social impact be reflect in the head of loss under the scheme . he also make some observation about how well awareness of some condition can be take forward . I will discuss that with ministerial colleague — several from the Department of Health and Social Care be in their place today . my hon . friend mention my immediate predecessor , my right hon . friend the Member for Horsham ( Sir Jeremy Quin ) , but I be aware that a large number of Paymasters General — include my right hon . friend the Leader of the House , who be sit alongside I today — have do an enormous amount of work to get we to this point , along with many official , include James Quinault , who have lead the work latterly . I want to acknowledge their contribution ; this be not about I . more broadly , my hon . Friend make some wise observation about the need to ensure that , for the community who will be give significant sum of money — rightly so , and in line with what they would be entitle to if they go through a legal process — the appropriate framework of support be in place to assist they to receive that money in a way that be not destructive to their life . I call the SNP spokesperson . yesterday be an emotional day for many of we . I be privileged to be at Central Hall with my constituent Cathy Young and her two fantastic daughter , Lisa and Nicola . I join the Minister in pay great tribute to the infected blood community . that community give Sir Brian Langstaff a stand ovation yesterday — a sight that will never leave I . may I echo the Public Gallery ' s reaction to the appointment of Sir Robert Francis ? it be an excellent appointment . will the Minister confirm that Sir Robert Francis will be able to meet the all - party parliamentary group on haemophilia and contaminate blood as well as other in the House ? with regard to the composition of the board of the compensation authority , will the Minister guarantee — I have already raise this with he — that it will include representative of the infected and affected , and that they will have what we believe be their rightful representation on the board ? I welcome his comment in relation to hepatitis B . that have always be one of the issue of contention , and some people with hepatitis B have be miss out on the exist scheme . will he look to find a way so that those with hepatitis B can access the exist scheme ? I know that the Scottish Infected Blood Forum have ask he that question . on interim payment , the Minister mention the living . will he clarify whether interim payment will be make to the estate of those who have sadly pass away ? some people will raise eyebrow about the fact that the interim compensation be less than that for those in the Post Office scheme . will he give some explanation as to how the £ 210 , 000 figure come about ? I echo the comment of the shadow Minister on look at criminal charge and a Hillsborough law , and I very much welcome his comment on memorial . do the Minister agree that there be two other lesson : first , member of this House , regardless of political persuasion , can get together to deliver justice ; and secondly , for the general public the key lesson , as show by those in the infected blood community , be never , ever to give up fighting injustice ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his engagement and for the point he have make today . I be there yesterday for the two hour of Sir Brian Langstaff ' s presentation of his report , which be a moving moment for all of those who have suffer and wait for so long . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for his endorsement of the appointment of Sir Robert Francis , which seem to be welcome in the Gallery . I recognise that what be absolutely critical for the scheme to be successful be full engagement with the community and that the explanation of how the scheme have be construct and any concern about the wide support that be need be interrogate fully before the regulation come back to the House . throughout , the scheme have be about reconcile speed and efficiency with consultation , which be why it have be do in such a way over the past few month . the hon . Gentleman make a point about hepatitis b and access to scheme . I will be happy to correspond with he separately on that — obviously , there be lot of technical issue . he ask about the £ 210 , 000 , which he can see be an irregular amount . that be because I be try to get the maximum amount that could be universally pay , as quickly as I could , to those who be infect and alive without any risk of pay the wrong amount , and that be the amount that I be advise . what be really important be that we get to the examination of entitlement and what that balance payment be , and get that payment out as quickly as possible . this be not a stall tactic ; it be about try to reconcile the compete priority of responsible stewardship of taxpayer ' money and get payment make as quickly as possible for the most vulnerable in our community . with regard to memorialisation , on these matter there will need to be wide engagement and I do not want to make binding commitment today . I have say what I have say , and I or another Minister will return to that in due course . I call the Chair of the Health and Social Care Committee . I thank the Minister for what he say and how he say it . I know that he , the Prime Minister and , in particular , the Chancellor , who be sit next to he , will make this right . clearly , the majority of Sir Brian ' s recommendation be for the health and social care sector , and the Health and Social Care Committee , which I chair , will play its part , work with the Health Secretary — I see she in her place — and NHS England to ensure that all the recommendation be implement , unlike with some previous accept patient safety recommendation . may I ask the Minister about the five loss category ? they make every sense , and I note his two small refinement , but will the financial loss award reflect the reality that many infected blood victim , to give just one example , can not access life insurance ? I thank the Chair of the Select Committee for his comment . I also thank the Chancellor for his unwavering commitment to resolve this in a timely way , both when I be Chief Secretary and now in this role . with respect to the five loss category , my hon . friend make a legitimate point about a specific additional burden that be a consequence of these condition . that matter will no doubt be raise by some in the community . the structure of the scheme be base around : injury , social impact , autonomy , care and financial loss . clearly , social impact and autonomy capture a range of unspecific thing — a basket of good , if you like — that people will not have be able to procure at the same cost . I can not give he a specific answer on that , but Jonathan Montgomery and his team of expert have do everything they can to look at the law , consider what the entitlement would be in different circumstance and give their good assessment , and those sort of conversation will happen with the community in the come week . I welcome the Minister ' s statement today . reflect on the fact that he have talk about those infected and affected be fully engage , I gently remind he of the maxim " no decision about we without we " , and of the lack of transparency so far in the expert panel . it be only today that we will learn the name of the people who have be advise the Government . may I also welcome the appointment of Sir Robert Francis as interim chair of the infected blood body ? it be worth reflect on what Sir Brian put in his report yesterday about the Government ' s failure to respond to Sir Robert Francis ' s compensation framework document , which the Leader of the House commission when she be Paymaster General , and which the Government promise several time to respond to . that be never publish . because we have also not have a proper write response to the second interim report from Sir Brian last April , will the Minister set out whether all 18 recommendation be be accept by the Government ? if not , why not ? will he confirm how the Government will ensure that the compensation authority be accountable directly to Parliament , as recommend by the infected blood inquiry ? I thank the right hon . Lady for her observation and for her ongoing engagement since my appointment . I take seriously her point about have no decision without full engagement . I make a decision , in order to get to this point where we would , in principle , accept the recommendation of Sir Brian Langstaff and move forward with the independent expert panel . as I have say to she previously , I be always prepared to reveal the name of those individual , but I do not want they to be distract while they do urgent work to make progress quickly . their name will be available shortly — today . Sir Robert Francis and I have a number of conversation about the interaction between Government and the expert group , and the logic that I use to get to the head of loss and the scheme today . I be delighted that he be prepared to facilitate engagement with the community . I have also be mindful of the principle of the Government manage public money while also recognise Sir Brian ' s imperative to set up a body that be at arm ' s length from Government , in order to generate some trust with a very vulnerable community . reconcile those two have not be straightforward . the right hon . Lady ask about the accountability of the arm ' s length body . these matter will need to be discuss far with respect to the regulation that we must lay before the House . a number of my predecessor have do a lot of work on this issue . I be pleased that we have make significant progress , but there be an intense amount of work to be do to deliver this over the next three month . I look forward to work constructively with she , as Sir Robert Francis do , to ensure that we get this to the right place as quickly as possible . I call the Chair of the Public Administration and Constitutional Affairs Committee . we have hear description of institutional defensiveness today , but we should be clear about what we be talk about : this be a grubby secret keep by the Department of Health . the people who suffer as a consequence be treat as an inconvenience to be manage . it fly in the face of what we be require to do in this House : hold Ministers accountable for what happen in their Departments . we need to learn from this , to improve how we behave and to hold the Executive to account in future . if we do not , this incident will shame we all — not just those directly responsible . we need to properly establish a duty of candour for civil servant in the advice they give to Ministers , and a requirement that Ministers must satisfy themselves that they be give appropriate challenge and consideration to the advice they receive , so that everyone involve in deliver service in future can be hold directly responsible , and this place do not continue to be a charade . I thank the hon . Lady for her comment , and I agree with her instinctive reaction to what Sir Brian say about the duty of candour . it will be for the government more widely to determine how we respond to that in a formal and coherent way . when my right hon . friend the Chancellor be in a previous role , he move quite a lot of thing forward in the Department of Health , as the hon . Lady know . when someone spend that amount of time , with that depth of evaluation , and give a number of insight and recommendation , it be important that the Government look at they very carefully . Sir Brian make wise observation about how we do government in this country , which we must listen to , heed and apply . I , too , welcome today ' s statement , which have be a long time come . this be a poignant day for many of my constituent , their family and friend . reassurance have be call for by organisation such as Haemophilia Scotland that the recommendation will be adhere to , as perhaps they have not be in the past . do the Minister agree that have the involvement of various group of infected and affected people will help ensure that happen ? I agree . when I go to Edinburgh I be keen to meet a representative group of Scottish infect blood campaign organisation . I have a very candid conversation with they , in which I set out where we be as a Government and what we be plan to do on this day at a high level . those conversation need to continue . as I say , the immediate priority be under Sir Robert Francis ' s guidance . that engagement will continue throughout June , so that the regulation be inform by the wisdom , experience and view of those we be seek to support . let I start by commend my constituency neighbour , the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) , for her courage , determination and persistence in relentlessly pursue this matter over the year . I wholeheartedly support her call for the rapid payment of compensation before any more sufferer die , and I know the Minister have that in mind . the Prime Minister say that a travesty like this should never be allow to happen again . like the PACAC Chair , I think that rest on the duty of candour that Sir Brain Langstaff recommend . that mean a legally enforceable duty of candour for the entire public service , not just some promise . as it turn out , the Minister have in front of he the opportunity to do that . on Report today in the Lords be the Victims and Prisoners Bill , which include a clause that impose a duty of candour in a very limited way . can my right hon . friend look at that clause and expand it to cover the whole public sector under all circumstance ? I defer to my right hon . friend ' s considerable experience and wisdom on many matter . I recognise his point , but to move on this matter in that way in this short timeframe would not be the right step . however , it would be right for we to urgently engage with he , the Public Administration and Constitutional Affairs Committee and other to ensure that the Government come up with the right complete response , to deal with a sensible point that Sir Brian make . I pay tribute to my constituent whose life be change for ever and the many campaigner affect by this scandal , who have fight for so many year for truth and justice . from Hillsborough to the Post Office , the infected blood scandal and many more , we have watch the state and institution cover up wrongdoing and blame the innocent , with no accountability . how long do we have to wait for those in this place to finally act and rebalance the scale of justice , and to deliver a full Hillsborough law ? yesterday ' s event show how necessary that law be to begin to end the culture of cover - up that be shamefully hardwired into our institution . I very much respect the hon . Gentleman ' s point about Hillsborough . I be not able to answer his question on that , as my remark be about the compensation scheme , but a number of point have be make about the incidence of public inquiry on a range of issue , and what that say about our state and its failure in different way . as he say , considerable effort be require of individual — which it should never have be — to apprehend the state for what have happen . these be wide matter that we will need to come to term with , but I do not think I can do justice to his remark today . I appreciate that today ' s statement be about compensation , but there be no opportunity yesterday nor much today to ask specifically about Lord Mayor Treloar College in Hampshire . my constituent Mike Webster send his son Gary , a constituent of my hon . friend the Member for Eastleigh ( Paul Holmes ) , to Treloar back in the late ' 70 and early ' 80 . he write to I last month to tell I how distraught he be that the school be now try to paint itself as a victim , when we know that it be in receipt of fund to conduct experiment on child . will my right hon . friend give I some assurance from the Dispatch Box that the Government be consider very carefully how the Helsinki declaration may have be breach , and some guidance about what future step may be take ? my right hon . friend very eloquently make a very important point . in the course of my engagement , I meet a number of former pupil from Treloar . I believe that in Sir Robert ' s report , one full volume pertain to what happen there . so many individual undergo medical treatment that be not envisage by their parent and where consent appear not to have be secure . this be a massive aspect of the work of Sir Brian Langstaff . the Government will need to examine it very carefully , include the implication for who be culpable and how we should most appropriately respond to avoid anything like that happen again . I hope that what I have say today with respect to compensation will give some modest measure of comfort to those I meet and those like they who be not here today . there be not word enough to pay tribute to all the campaigner , infect and affect , include my constituent Lin , who lose Bill , and the Smiths . I also pay tribute to my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) and journalist such as Caroline Wheeler . the Smiths lose Colin , age just seven year old , to AIDS , have be give infected blood from an Arkansas prison at 10 month old . we now know from the inquiry that the risk of give that blood be know . Lin and the Smiths want " sorry " to turn into something today , for those who die every week . on their behalf , I say to the Minister : make sure we have a proper timeline and that we stick to it ; implement the recommendation as fast as possible ; put the victim at the heart of decision making ; and no more delay . this group of people have wait far too long and have be through far too much already . finally , the Smiths want their son to have his name back , although they have always make sure that we have never forget it . so can I say it today ? Colin John Smith . the hon . Lady make a move tribute to her constituent . I can assure she that the Government have hear the plea that have be make . we have set out today a clear timetable on the journey to the regulation . I will , with Mr Speaker ' s permission , update the House in early autumn on where we have get to and the timeline for further detail , subject to the advice of the interim ceo and the interim chair . she make a point about stigma , which be a massive part of this for so many people I meet and for her constituent , include the Smith family . we recognise that as part of the scheme , but the memorialisation process must also recognise in particular those who be so badly stigmatise in the ' 80 and ' 90 . the Minister talk about stigma . when I meet some of the affected community in Peterborough , I hear about the discrimination they face and about their lack of trust in public institution . this all leave a very long legacy . with that in mind , how confident be he that , despite that long legacy , the scheme will capture and benefit everyone affect or infect ? how confident be he that everyone who should be compensate will come forward ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . I be confident that the scheme will work , and that it will work as quickly as it possibly can . I mention today the interim payment of £ 210 , 000 to the infect who be alive . the speed with which we process the application of those affect and infected be very much on my mind as we set up the shadow arm ' s length body . I will continue to work with my official to do everything we can to move the timeline from the right to the left , conscious of how long people have wait . first of all , I welcome the fact that the Minister have move so quickly . the sorrow express yesterday have to be translate into action . the fact that the authority have be set up , a chairman who will have the confidence of the victim have be put in place , and the payment — at least interim payment — will be make quickly be good . but for people like my constituent Trevor Marsden , who be use as an experiment by people who describe child as " cheap than chimp " and more readily available , justice will be give only when the elite in the civil service and the professional who cynically abuse their position — devise experiment , deny they be happen , try to destroy the evidence and defend their action — know they will face criminal charge . that be what they be . will the Government make sure that all the evidence be make available , so they can be bring to justice ? the right hon . Gentleman make a very powerful representation on behalf of Trevor Marsden and more generally with respect to some of the conclusion Sir Brian make in his remark . what happen with respect to experimentation be truly shameful . as he will be aware , I be speak today to the issue of compensation , but it be an urgent matter to isolate who know what and when , take that from the report and establish what course of action , across the range of issue raise here in the House today , be the most appropriate to deal with all of those thing . I welcome what my right hon . friend have set out , particularly the effort that he and his predecessor have make to remove friction from the process of get the victim of this unforgivable episode the compensation they clearly deserve . but he will recognise that as the system bed down and begin to operate , there be always the risk of that friction creep back in . can he make sure that he and his ministerial colleague keep their eye on the process and work with Sir Robert Francis to make sure it continue to be without friction , so that people continue to be able to easily access the compensation they need ? absolutely . my right hon . and learn Friend make a very wise point . the need to swiftly expedite payment in full to as many qualify people as possible be the imperative that have guide I to this point , and will be the imperative that Sir Robert will take forward in his conversation . we must not introduce unnecessary complexity to establish people ' s qualification to receive a payment , when that be unnecessary . there be a tension , but we must resolve it to get the payment out . that be why the arm ' s length body will need to prioritise in particular the group who be infect , alive and suffer the most , many of whom I meet recently . do the Minister understand that as well as a duty of candour , we really need , as my right hon . friend the Member for Garston and Halewood ( Maria Eagle ) have consistently put before this House , a public advocate to make certain that victim in future scandal have somebody to look after they and take they through process ? that would stop this happen ever again . will he say something about when he expect all the payment to have be make ? he talk about an interim scheme which go on to the end of this financial year , but also about full payment be make go far forward . when be his deadline for get this do ? the hon . Lady talk about a public advocate . I be not in a position to respond to that today , but it be clearly one option that be available and I think will be part of the wide response to the report . to be clear , the interim payment of £ 210 , 000 to the infected alive which I announce today will be pay within 90 day , start in the summer . the full payment will begin by the end of the year . I be constrain somewhat because we be set up an arm ' s length body . there be an interim chief executive and I think there will be 20 people employ in that organisation by the end of next week . I can not account for the process and the way it will be establish , and therefore how quickly , but everything I have say to David Foley , the interim chief executive , be design to impress on he the need for speed to expedite as many of these claim as quickly as possible in full . I commend the Minister for his statement . I know from our conversation how seriously he take his moral duty on this issue . however , I also know from the work do at the Cabinet Office in the summer of 2022 in get the first interim payment out that one of the most fraught area of consideration will be wide eligibility , and that be not just a function of complexity but a function of capacity . the Minister mention that the arm ' s length body would have 20 employee in the next couple of week , but can he reassure the House that , if Sir Robert Francis come back in a few month and say , " in order to make quick decision , I need more capacity and therefore more people " , there will be no quibbling on adequate resource in that organisation to fulfil the Minister ' s rightly identify priority of get the money out as quickly as possible to as many people as possible ? I thank my right hon . friend for what he do when he be in office to bring forward interim payment and to make progress . as for the business case for the arm ' s length body and the plan for the number of employee need , I expect Sir Robert and the interim chief executive to be iteratively work up plan to expedite this as quickly as possible , and to assert what resource they need for it to be deliver as quickly as possible . I will do everything I can to prioritise swift delivery in the decision that I make . the timeline in Sir Brian ' s report highlight the litany of failure , delay and cover - up over decade which result in the exposure of even more patient to hepatitis C and HIV . while several country accept liability and set up compensation scheme in the mid - 1990 , UK victim have have to spend another 30 year of their life not just deal with ill health but fight for justice . I welcome the vast majority of what the Minister have announce today , and I be sure that everyone in the House do as well , but the member of the infected blood community who be here today will have be greatly concerned to hear his comment that imply a threat to the ongoing support payment . do he accept that it be not just a matter of say that the infected blood community will be involve in the compensation scheme ? will their wish be listen to ? they will , absolutely . when I be in Edinburgh I have long conversation about the need to understand the integration of the exist infected blood support scheme , which present in a different way and offer meaningful psychological and other support service to the community in different part of the United Kingdom . we be talk about two part of the head of loss — about past and future care cost , and loss of income past and future . we be consolidate those into a lump sum , but I have make an absolute commitment that no one will be bad off . there be a couple of category in which there be a potential risk of that , but we will make sure that no one will be bad off . however , the sensitivity in the delivery of this scheme , in term with which the various community across the United Kingdom will be comfortable , be at the top of my mind , and will be instrumental in determine the form of the regulation that will guide this into law in the next few month I commend my right hon . friend for his statement and , indeed , for the tone that the Government have take in respect of this most grave scandal . it be strike , be it not , that the chair of the inquiry , Sir Brian Langstaff , have say that his job be not yet do , that he will only regard his term of reference as fulfil when the Government respond , within 12 month , to his recommendation , and , importantly , that he will only regard his job as do if he feel that there be nothing more he can do to prevent delay ? give that the Government have to respond to the second interim report and , now , to this final report , can my right hon . friend assure I and the House , and indeed the wide public , that he and the Government will do everything they can to ensure that Sir Brian ' s role be fulfil as swiftly as possible ? I can certainly reassure my right hon . and learn Friend of that . today ' s announcement about compensation , and the document that will flow through , will constitute substantive response to meet the expectation of many in the community , and I will consider the formalisation of those response very carefully to bring clarity to the matter . could I put on record the thank of , I think , all of we not only to the campaigner , but to my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) ? as someone who campaign for many year on postmaster , I know how lonely it be at time when you be take on the state and no one believe you . I welcome the Paymaster General ' s announcement of a compensation scheme base on tariff , but can I tell he , from my experience as a member of the Horizon Compensation Advisory Board , that the big work start now in term of agree the level of those tariff ? will the Government pay individual claimant ' legal bill , because they will need some legal advice on that ? could I also echo what the Father of the House , the hon . member for worthe West ( Sir Peter Bottomley ) , say ? a lot of money be go to be pay out to people . we will get unscrupulous individual try to prey on people . can I suggest that we ensure that they get financial advice and support when those payment be make ? not for the first time , the right hon . Gentleman have make some wise point , and I be grateful to he for do so . I accept much of what he have say about the concern surround tariff , but these tariff have not be set up with financial constraint ; they have be set up with the input of a range of expert to reach a judgment on what would be appropriate versus what would be a legal entitlement . the assumption behind those banding — severity banding , for instance — now need to be explain and scrutinise , and that be what be go to happen . the right hon . Gentleman make a very reasonable point about claim by unscrupulous people ; the question here be how we can put safeguard in place while expedite the claim of those who have qualify . he also make a reasonable point about the professional support of lawyer and financial adviser . that , too , be at the top of my mind as I learn from some of the other scandal with which I become familiar in my role as Economic Secretary to the Treasury . I will take those to heart in future . let I begin by pay tribute to my constituent Paul Bloor for his campaign . Paul start at Treloar College in 1974 , and be infect with hepatitis C from contaminate blood product . I regret that I personally have not grasp the full horrendousness of what have go on , and I thank Sir Brian for ensure that we do all now understand . Paul welcome the compensation , but he ask I to raise with the Minister the issue of accountability . what work be be do to ensure that we can now pursue any avenue towards personal accountability for those who deserve to have their conduct look at ? I completely understand why Paul would want that point to be raise . those matter go beyond my brief when it come to compensation , but I think the whole House will recognise that this matter be urgent and that Ministers in other Departments will need to address it properly and in full . I hope that the debate after Whitsun will give we an opportunity to open up all these matter as a House , and that the Government can then respond appropriately as quickly as possible . some of the thing that happen be completely against the value of the institution that those individual be part of . we need to examine this fully and come to term with it , and make sure that it can never happen again . can we accept that institutional defensiveness have not go away , and will only go away when we in this House act to make it go away ? for the past few year I have be work with constituent who be victim of a Ponzi scheme . they lose million of pound . they be fail repeatedly by , first , the Financial Services Authority and then the Financial Conduct Authority . they have be leave out of pocket to the tune of nearly £ 2 million in legal fee , in which the FCA have no apparent interest . will the Minister meet I , along with other member whose constituent have be affect and some of the victim themselves , to see what can be do to deliver for they the good intention that he have express today ? I be very sorry to hear about the right hon . Gentleman ' s constituent . I know from my prior experience that the Economic Secretary to the Treasury , my hon . friend the Member for Hitchin and Harpenden ( Bim Afolami ) , be well place to address any issue relate to the FCA . I understand the problem of jurisdiction of the FCA , particularly when it come to unregulated activity , but I do not think I can help the right hon . Gentleman , and , with respect , I think he should address that question to my colleague in the Treasury . I be glad that my right hon . friend the Minister have do a diligent job , which be reflective of his attitude towards the overall need and this gravest of situation . however , it all ought to have be do early , and I hold in mind my former constituent Annie Walker , who die in 2016 . I wish she have be able to see this before she pass away , because she tell I that she be tired of have to keep campaign . I also have in mind a current constituent , whom I will not name and with whom I work regularly on this issue . he have ask I to point out that the support scheme be , as per the Minister ' s statement , due to change . he and I would be very grateful for as much clarity as possible on those scheme , which will be need by many of the people involve . finally , may I urge the Minister and his colleague in the Government to bring forward the regulation as soon as possible ? if I understand it correctly , Sir Robert Francis may take a number of week . he have mention the month of June , and we have hear the figure of five week , so can I take it that we may see the regulation in July , which would allow , I hope , all member — not just a select Committee — of this House to do their job in scrutinise those regulation and get the job do as fast as possible ? I thank my right hon . friend for her question , and for her personal engagement with I over recent week . the fact that she refer to an unnamed constituent provoke I to acknowledge that so many people have be so traumatised by their experience and the stigma associate with their condition that they have not be able to be as open as they would like . with respect to the timeframe , the Government submit to a three - month obligation to bring those regulation forward from Royal Assent of the Bill , which will happen , I think , in June or July . of course , there will be time where we have to lay they before the House . I want to make sure that we do that in the most timely way possible . the purposeful intent , with the engagement under Sir Robert ' s leadership , be to make sure that that be meaningful but also address the imperative around time . the very welcome appointment of Sir Robert Francis , who do such an excellent job in chair the inquiry into the scandal in mid - Staffordshire , be a reminder that we be very good at inquiry in this country , but we be terrible at implement their recommendation . I would like to make a suggestion to the Minister , and it be just as applicable to those on my own Front Bench . we might be able to reduce the chance of this kind of thing happen again by ask every permanent secretary in Whitehall how many recommendation from previous inquiry be still on the book and have not be implement . let we have the list , and let we have a good reason — a very good reason — why they have not be implement . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his question , and I echo his tribute to Sir Robert Francis . one of the reason I be keen to secure his ongoing work be that he do excellent work with the study into compensation , which have obviously be important in move we forward to this point . the challenge to permanent secretary on recommendation that have not be deal with be very reasonable . I be not quite sure how good I can take that forward , but I will seek advice and let the right hon . Gentleman know how we be get on with it at the next opportunity . yesterday , I speak to an emotional constituent , Paul Jewels from Braunton , who want to express to Sir Brian his gratitude that the truth have come out . he contract hepatitis c follow a blood transfusion during chemotherapy in 1983 , and he now train therapy dog to give hope and support to other . can my right hon . friend give he hope that compensation will be rapid and simple to enable he and other to finally reach closure ? yes , I certainly can . that have be drive the Government over recent month . as we make progress , I be sure that we will give more detail on exactly how and when the work of the arm ' s length body will play out in the come month , the remainder of this year and beyond . the thing be , this will all happen again unless we change the way we do our parliamentary politic , because Parliament fail , as do the whole of british politic . of course , there be some notable exception . frankly , I think of my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) as a Companion of Honour with a capital c and a capital h . the truth be , Parliament be mislead repeatedly over decade . in all those decade , there be not a single Select Committee report into infected blood . we do not do our job properly , so be it not time that we do have change in the way we do our parliamentary and Government politic in this country , perhaps with a bit more power in Parliament , rather than always in Government ? would it not be a good idea if it be always the people first , not the Government first ; and the people first , not the institution or the Department first ; and the people first , not the party first ? do not that require place a legally enforceable duty of candour not just on Ministers through the ministerial code , which I think should be in statute , but on all our civil servant ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his thoughtful assessment , which chime with what I think yesterday when I hear Sir Brian speak to the 1 , 200 people in Methodist Central Hall . what be strike be the range of institutional failure . yes , it involve the Government and politician , but it also involve civil servant , doctor and many people in position of authority . the hon . Gentleman make a clear suggestion for rebalancing across different institution , and I recognise the specificity of Sir Brian ' s challenge and recommendation . as I say early , the Government will need to respond powerfully to that , and we will , in due course . I welcome today ' s statement and my right hon . friend ' s set out the five head of harm , and I also welcome Sir Robert Francis as the interim head of the new authority . it have take a long time to get here , and one of the big harm have be the delay in see this day . a lot of people will be feel that really acutely . we need to avoid this happen again , and that be partly about address the cover - up culture in so many of our organisation . do my right hon . friend agree that we need a change in our legislation to ensure that , right across the public sector and our society , we have a desire for openness and transparency , and get rid of the cover - up culture once and for all ? my hon . friend put it very well , and I agree with her assessment . we need to come to term with the fact that there be flaw in the way we operate . they have be powerfully and vividly depict in Sir Brian Langstaff ' s report , and the Government must respond in a suitably comprehensive way . I want to recognise the valuable and incredible work of many of the campaign group , not least the Scottish Infected Blood Forum , chair by my constituent , Joyce Donnelly , whose husband Tom be infect and pass away from hepatitis C . Joyce be in the Gallery yesterday and early today , and she and other have act as convenor and advocate for the wide community at great personal cost ; there be not just the financial cost , but the time and effort put in by those in those role . will that effort and cost be take into account in the calculation of compensation , or be there other ongoing support that the Government can provide to the campaign and advocacy group ? Joyce describe her forum as " stony break " . the hon . Gentleman make a powerful representation on behalf of Joyce Donnelly , who I believe I have meet . the purpose of today ' s announcement be to bring an end to the need for campaign as quickly as possible , and to provide comprehensive compensation to all those who qualify as quickly as possible . however , as the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) say , we need to ensure that the different community be comfortable with what be be propose , and be familiar with the detail of how tariff have be calculate and how they will work . rather than my prescribing , as a Government Minister , what should happen , I be try to facilitate the process by give someone whom the community clearly respect the opportunity to lead the engagement , urgently , that will inform the regulation that underpin the new body . I very much welcome the Minister ' s statement on ensure that compensation be pay quickly . I pay real tribute to all the campaigner who have fight day and night to get where we be today , include the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) . it be a pleasure to support her amendment on this important matter to move the situation to where it be today . in an email from my constituent Colin Midgeley in 2015 , he say : " how many more of we will have to go to the grave before a full and final settlement be achieve ? " sadly , his father pass away in 2018 . he then say : " my dad have to jump through hoop " to get help ; people come to assess he regularly . that can not be right . the Minister say that the assessment will be do as quickly and as widely as possible . may I ask that the test for qualification be as wide as possible , and that thing be do as quickly as possible , so that people get the justice they need ? I be happy to give my hon . friend the assurance he ask for . it be clear in the conversation that I have have that speed be of the essence . I know that colleague from all part of the House have have many conversation that have inform the representation make in this place . there have be a number of ad hoc scheme over the year . various government — to be fair , of all party — have amend and seek to upgrade those scheme , but this compensation scheme be qualitatively very different . it be an admission of culpability and responsibility by the state , and it mark that responsibility . we need alignment of the different scheme on get the journey of assessment do as quickly as possible . that be what we will do . I represent five individual or family infect or affect by the NHS infect blood scandal . one constituent be infect with hepatitis C as a child through contaminate blood product use at Royal Manchester Children ' s Hospital , but he be force to use all his stage 2 payment of £ 50 , 000 to pay for the treatment Harvoni when he develop cirrhosis of the liver . he should not have have to do that , and I hope that there will be redress for that . another constituent , a single mother , die aged 47 after be infect with HIV after a routine blood transfusion . she have to keep her condition secret , due to the stigma and ignorance that exist at the time . as she be a single mother , her family have never have any compensation . on their behalf , can I ask the Paymaster General to clarify what sum have be allocate for compensation ? what be the size of the package ? will it be open - ended , because we know that people be still develop condition ? he confirm that new interim compensation payment will be make within 90 day , but he seem unable to say what the timeline for full compensation payment will be . I underline the point make by my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) about the need to ensure that the compensation authority be accountable to Parliament . we must have that . finally , I commend my right hon . friend on all her work on this campaign . I thank the hon . Lady for her point , which I will address . the first that she make be that everyone who have be impact by this scandal be an individual and have have a different pathway , in term of vulnerability , financial obligation and difficulty access the scheme . that be why it be important that I reinforce the fact that the Infected Blood Compensation Authority will have an appeal mechanism , and people will have the right to go to tribunal if they believe that the tariff - base system do not reflect the circumstance that individual may have experience . there be no restraint on people use the legal system as well , if that be what they wish to do . I do say that the interim payment of £ 210 , 000 would be pay within 90 day , start this summer . I also say that the full payment will start by the end of this year ; I confirm that be the calendar year , to remove any ambiguity . the Chancellor and the Prime Minister have be clear that we will pay whatever it cost . I can not tell the hon . Lady what that number be , because we have not yet finalise the severity banding and verify the work on the tariff . that be the meaningful engagement we be have with the community , supervise by Sir Robert Francis . as for the number affect , there be obviously a wide range . we be talk about the number who qualify by virtue of the qualification of the infected person . exact number do not exist . I set out who can access the scheme ; the principal be that the scheme be accessible to they , and the Government will pay whatever it cost to meet those obligation . I welcome what my right hon . friend about pay whatever it cost . it be essential that we be prepared to do that . the Government accept moral culpability some time ago , and have now accept financial liability . can he assure all those constituent for whom justice delay have be justice deny that he will move as swiftly as possible to deliver for they ? will he bear in mind the lesson of the Northern Ireland victim compensation scheme , which we be able to get through this House in a single day , when there be the political will ? will he continue to engage with , listen to and support Robert Francis in his engagement with the infected and affected , to ensure that the scheme deliver for everybody ? my hon . friend make wise and sensible point , build on a lot of experience of Government and as a constituency MP . I endorse all that he have ask . there will be a " dear colleague " letter go out to all mp , and a " dear stakeholder " letter , as well as a number of other document give detail of the scheme I have mention today . there will be an attempt to move thing forward as quickly as we can , use cross - party consensus on what we be try to achieve . Christopher Thomas of Pen Llyn be one of the first patient with haemophilia to be treat by Professor Arthur Bloom of Cardiff . Christopher die in 1990 age 46 . his wife Judith describe the family ' s feel that the haematologist be a friend , because they often visit he in hospital for treatment , yet Professor Bloom be mention repeatedly in Sir Brian Langstaff ' s report as somebody who " disastrously … over - influence " the Department of Health and Social Security in the ' 70 and ' 80 . the Minister have mention a range of institutional failure . surely he must agree that today we should hear more detail of how legislation relate to duty of candour will be bring forward . if he can not give we detail today — I appreciate that it be not his Department that we be talk about — can he let we know when he will ? the right hon . Lady make a sensible point . I , too , be strike by the reference to Professor Bloom and the role he play in different way over the year . do justice to the report ' s 2 , 500 page and seven volume , and come up with a serious response , will take a bit of time . I recognise the Government ' s collective determination to address this matter as quickly as possible in the right way , have listen to the will of this House . the first opportunity to do that will be a debate sometime after Whitsun , which I intend to open — someone from the Department of Health and Social Care will wind up — so that we can begin to outline , in policy term , how these thing can be properly address . I thank the Minister for the thoughtful and thorough statement , which be so clearly inform by his extensive discussion with the community . I have speak to he many time about my constituent Sally - Anne and her family , and how this devastating scandal have affect they . I hope that much of what the Minister have say today about compensation will provide Sally - Anne and other with comfort , but we all know that with the good will in the world , and even with the most planning , there will be difficulty in implement such a massive , complex compensation scheme . when the Minister say that compensation would not impact mean - test benefit , I feel a sense of relief , but we also know that there will be difficulty when department and computer system have to speak to each other . can I push the Minister to confirm that the community ' s voice will continue to be hear by the arm ' s length body , and that we will be able to adapt and change the scheme where necessary to ensure that it work on the ground , because I know that he have work so hard for that to happen ? I thank my hon . friend for her remark and for her constructive point around how the arm ' s length body need to evolve and fit the community ’ expectation . I be absolutely committed to that . she mention her constituent , Sally - Anne . every individual be a priority to I as the Minister , and we want to deliver this as efficiently as we possibly can . she talk about benefit disregard , and I have also mention tax disregard . the system need to recognise what we be do with these payment to individual . we have try to address everything we can think of to make this flow as quickly as possible , and I hope that that will be the case . my hon . friend be welcome to speak to I again if there be other issue she want to raise . we be indebted to Sir Brian Langstaff for the comprehensive work that he have undertake . however , it leave many question about the transparency and accountability of Government — to this place and to Committees but also to the public . can we ensure that those infected and affected be involve in co - produce the outcome of the recommendation ? can we also ensure that the separate Departments be hold to account , not least the Department of Health and Social Care , give that so many of the recommendation will fall on that Department , and that the Secretary of State for that Department be directly accountable , in this new spirit of transparency to this House and beyond ? of course , many of these event happen over a very wide timespan go back 40 or 50 year , but the issue be what we can do go forward . the hon . Lady make a reasonable point about involve the infected and affected community in this process . one of the thing that I have mention be the arm ' s length body have sufficient distance from Government to give confidence to the community . we need to get that right , and we need to ensure that the appropriate governance be in place so that the representative of those community can have meaningful influence in how they engage , and on the wide issue that she mention . I really welcome this detailed and thorough statement , and I welcome it on behalf of two of the victim in particular . the first be an unnamed constituent who come to my first - ever advice surgery back in 2010 at Huddersfield town hall . he tell I how , during a blood transfusion , he have be infect with HIV , hepatitis C and CJD . the second victim be Mel McKay , who be not a constituent but live on the east coast of Yorkshire . we have become friend over many year while campaign on this issue . as well as deliver the compensation rapidly , can the Minister also confirm that there will be no time limit at all on when the victim start apply and complete their application for compensation ? we will be have a review after three year to look at what the lifespan of the arm ' s length body should be . I acknowledge the challenge for people with multiple condition , and that be why I mention multiple award in my statement . that be one of the issue that the independent expert panel grapple with . we want to make this accessible to everyone who be entitle , and I do not want to have unnecessary artificial cut - off point , but we also need to ensure that we have an organisation that be fit for purpose to deliver this quickly . my constituent , Della Ryness and Ruth Spellman , have be active in come to Parliament and talk about the distress experience by their family for many , many year . will the Minister and the shadow Ministers pay tribute to their work ? also , do the Minister envisage any criminal conviction or manslaughter charge for individual who might have really do the wrong thing ? I be very happy to pay tribute to the work of Della and Ruth . many of these individual have be campaign for 20 , 30 or 40 year , and I pay tribute to all of they today . with respect to criminal charge , I be not in a position to make a comment today , but work will be do to examine the report fully and make an assessment of that at a future point . I welcome the Paymaster General ' s statement today . I would also like to put on record my thank to Sir Brian and pay tribute to the campaigner who never give up . I pay tribute to one campaigner in particular in my own constituency , whom I will not name but she will know that I be speak of she . she lose her mother and can never be compensate for that , but she also give up her job and her income . she do not regret that for a moment , but it have leave she financially fragile in these later year , to the point that I have advocate with her mortgage lender for a stay of execution — breathing space — ahead of any potential compensation . I know that my right hon . friend can not comment on individual case , but can he restate that , as a child of a victim , she have be affect ? I believe that she qualify on multiple measure , but can he restate that today , for the lender , for her confidence and for my satisfaction ? I also add my voice to those say that there be a dire need for swift action . time be precious . I be grateful to my hon . friend for her sensitive portrayal of the individual circumstance of her constituent . the financial vulnerability that impact so many of the affected because of the impact on the infected be the reason that we be bring forward the scheme in this way . I be happy to confirm that the affected individual will be able to claim in their own right , inform by the qualification of the infect individual and the estate of the infect individual . again , I recognise that a tariff - base system will inevitably have limitation , and that be why , beyond get the parameter absolutely right in term of the severity banding , care cost and so on , there must also be an appeal mechanism and a mechanism to challenge , such that we can ensure that everyone receive justice in an individual way . early this year , on 18 January , I raise the case of my constituent , Nigel Winborne , a victim of infected blood . as a result , Nigel develop various health issue , include renal failure and liver cirrhosis . I say that Nigel want a " fast resolution to the infected blood scandal compensation before it be too late for myself and other to see full and final resolution " . — [ Official Report , 18 January 2024 ; Vol . 743 , c . 1016 . ] sadly , Nigel be too ill to contact I again , but his sister mention that she do not want he to be the late statistic in this horrible affair . Nigel pass away on 9 March . he be just 63 year old . I speak to his partner early this morning , and he be absolutely devastate . they have live together for over 20 year and he dedicate his life , give up his career , to be Nigel ' s full - time carer . that 90 day will seem like 90 year for they , so on his behalf , I ask the Minister : can this timeline be expedite as soon as possible ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady for her tribute to Nigel and his life , and I be very sorry to his family for the loss . I recognise the frustration of even one day ' s delay . I have do everything I can to move these payment forward as quickly as I possibly can , recognise all the different dependency . if I could write the cheque myself personally , I would , but I can not . I will continue to do all that I can . I say that these payment would begin in the summer , and I want they to happen as soon as possible . the 90 day be not a deadline , and it be not an obligation , but we want to get they out as soon as possible , and where we can , we will . I welcome the statement today , just as I welcome the Prime Minister ' s statement yesterday . my constituent , Alan , have be campaign for justice for 37 year . he himself be infect as part of this scandal . the more I find out about this , the more chilling it become . frankly , sometimes it read like a plot from a horror movie — maybe one day it might even be one , because that be how bad and chill this scandal be . but of course we know that this be not the only example of public organisation fail the people they be there to serve . will the Minister confirm to I that transparency and accountability , when it come to our public service , will be the key tenet and will rule the day ? I absolutely can . my hon . friend make a very wise point and , not only in the conduct of this exercise but more generally , we need to be as transparent as possible . yesterday , Sir Brian speak about an insidious conflation of failure across multiple institution that , over time , result in catastrophic outcome . we need to come to term properly with that to ensure that we put in whatever it take to stop these thing happen again . before today ' s statement , I find it ironic that we have to wait for a public inquiry to try to get thing move . it be difficult to see why it take so long to find that we have a culture not just within our government but within Departments , especially the Department of Health and Social Care , whereby whistleblower be target and clarity be not bring out . in say that , I want to ask about Sir Brian ' s 12 recommendation . the timeline for implement all of the recommendation , which go across Departments , will mean take this to the Cabinet to ensure that all Departments address the aspect of this report that affect they . I want to see a timeline for the date by which we will ensure the implementation of all 12 recommendation . the hon . Gentleman be right to assert the need for a timeline . I be not in a position to provide one today , but I have set out that the House will have an opportunity to debate the report soon after Whitsun . that will be an opportunity to give some initial clarity on the step that be go to be take . as the hon . Gentleman and the whole House will appreciate , there be a lot of complexity and we do not want to give a timetable that we can not honour and deliver . I again draw my right hon . friend ' s attention to the issue of trace all those affected and support those who may not be know to the inquiry , who may not be register with one of our really good support organisation and who may not be on any list . today , I have have contact with a family in my constituency , one of whom be very unwell with an illness that they believe they contract from transfusion they have in the 1970 and ' 80 . what advice would the Minister give to they on the step they should take to determine whether they be eligible for this compensation ? as ever , my hon . friend make a very sensible point . as time go by , verify what it take for a person to qualify , if they be not currently register , be something that the new body will need to clarify . through the process of meaningful engagement in the come week , I hope that some of these issue will be satisfactorily resolve . we want to be as accessible as possible to all those who qualify , and we want to make the verification process for those who qualify as straightforward as reasonably possible . that be the guide principle . I can not give the detail here today , but I will return to my hon . friend ' s point in future . I pay tribute to my constituent Mark Ward , who be here today . he contact I soon after I become a Member of Parliament and , like many , have continue to be a dogged campaigner . this report be some vindication , but justice will not be serve until the campaigner have see all aspect of the report be implement . I want to ask a few specific question . the Minister say that he could not set the interim payment above £ 210 , 000 because of a fear of the safety of those payment . be he therefore imply that £ 210 , 000 be the potential minimum payment that he expect ? it be low than the minimum interim payment for sub - postmaster , so I would like some clarity on what that mean . the Minister also say that he expect the payment to start within 90 day . do he mean 90 day from now , to be complete by the summer , or a 90 - day period in the summer ? that be not quite clear . finally , public inquiry be at the gift of the Prime Minister . there be no formal way of agree to an inquiry , apart from campaigner and member such as my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) force the Prime Minister to take action , which do not seem like a coherent way to right wrong in this country . will we start to think about a proper public inquiry reform that include a duty of candour , a public advocate and a way for Committees of this House to launch such inquiry when serious matter occur ? order . before the Minister answer those question , I make it clear that , after a statement of this kind , each Member have the opportunity to ask a question . I be very anxious that everybody who wish to ask a question should be able to do so on behalf of their constituent , but it really have to be one question per Member . I have be lenient with the hon . Gentleman , and I suspect that the Minister will want to answer all his question . on the £ 210 , 000 , I take advice on the large sum I could comfortably secure . the hon . member for Brighton , Kemptown ( Lloyd Russell - Moyle ) will see document publish today on the scheme for different condition , and I hope thing will become clear for he . I be happy to correspond with he on that . on the timing , I say that the payment will happen within 90 day , begin in the summer . I can not say which day of the summer , but 90 day be the time period . the hon . Gentleman , like Sir Brian , speak about how public inquiry be initiate . how that would be implement be a matter for further conversation in subsequent week and debate . like many other , I obviously welcome yesterday ' s statement and today ' s comprehensive follow - up . my Sedgefield constituent David Farry have be in touch to ask I to thank the Prime Minister for his apology , to thank my right hon . friend the Member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) for initiate the public inquiry , and to thank Sir Brian for his work . I be sure David will have be pleased to hear the Minister ' s word early . I add my voice to those call for this to be a watershed moment in public transparency . on behalf of David , can I ask for real progress as urgently as possible , so that David and other can start to think about move on from these appalling event ? I can assure David , and every individual affect , that we be do everything we can to deliver this scheme as quickly as possible . we will also address the wide challenge to the culture of government and institution in this country , and there will be an opportunity to discuss that in the come week . I pay tribute to all those who fight so hard for justice for so long . it be impossible to imagine the pain and harm do to so many , include to some of my Brighton constituent who have share with I their deeply harrowing story . the setting up of the Infected Blood Compensation Authority be very welcome , and I echo those who have call for the body to be make accountable to Parliament , but will the Government consider go far and potentially set up an independent body to monitor and follow up all such recommendation and inquiry ? without such a mechanism , without such a body , there be a risk of a significant accountability gap , because no one be directly charge with the effective oversight of the implementation of all these recommendation . I thank the hon . Lady for her representation . that be certainly something that need to be carefully consider in the context of all that Sir Brian have say . one of the challenge on accountability be when recommendation make outside this place encounter the need for delivery . sometimes that mean that thing have to be do slightly differently , but they meet the spirit of the recommendation . we need to make sure that , in the accountability mechanism , there be sufficient scope to recognise that challenge , otherwise we will be in a position of make false judgment . the spirit of what the hon . Lady say need to be take forward , and the Government need to reflect on that thoughtfully . in 2010 , my then constituent Andrew March , a victim of contaminate blood since the age of nine , succeed in a judicial review that find that payment of compensation by the UK Government be flawed . he say : " we hope that the Government will now consider the whole issue of compensate those so tragically affect by the contaminated blood disaster , instead of make token , derisory , ex - gratia payment . " it have take a further 14 year for Government to follow the lead of the court , and now the inquiry , in call for justice for Andrew and the thousand of other victim . from 2010 we attend countless meeting , debate and briefing , and hear warm word from a succession of Health Ministers . nothing happen for year , then matter proceed at a glacial pace . what mechanism will be enforce to ensure that the scheme announce today be implement with rigour and urgency ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . we can go back to the government of Heath , Callaghan , Wilson , Thatcher , Major , Blair , Brown , Cameron and Theresa May ; all of they come under criticism . Theresa May initiate a public inquiry with significant input from number of people across the House . we on the Government side have all be clear that we wish thing have happen soon , but I be do everything I can to move this forward today , and I be resist any attempt to politicise it . the hon . Gentleman make point about accountability . we have an obligation within three month of Royal Assent to make regulation that will activate the arm ' s length body . we have a shadow entity in place , an interim ceo and an interim chair , and engagement be plan for the come day , with 20 people to be employ by the end of next week . I will continue to work with anyone and everyone across the House to ensure that we meet expectation . just for the record , I know that the right hon . Gentleman mean to refer to the right hon . member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) as such . [ interruption . ] there be no need for an apology . the right hon . Gentleman be answer very fully and correctly , and I do not want to interrupt he . there be much to welcome in what the Minister say today , but can I take he back to the issue of exist support scheme , which be of course incredibly important for so many ? in the second interim report , recommendation 13 say that " current annual payment under the support scheme should be continue … and guarantee for life " and that such payment should only be take into account " in assess award for future financial loss or care provision " . it be not immediately clear to I that what the Minister say today be consistent with that recommendation and its implementation . could he provide that clarity now , because this be very important for people listen ? yes I absolutely can — I have be very clear about the Government ' s continue commitment on exist support scheme . however , there be a point at which the assessment for compensation entitlement be make under the new scheme , and there will be an interaction with scheme that have come before . option will then be set out . I want to provide reassurance on that today ; the detail of how that will work out must be do with the consent and approval of the community involve . I want to build on a point make by my right hon . friend the Member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) early about the risk of unscrupulous financial adviser swoop in . it be appal even to think that it might be possible , but we have a lot of experience of that from deal with the British Steel pension scheme , and I would be happy to discuss any of those lesson learn with the Minister . my constituent David Farrugia tragically lose his father 40 year ago due to this appalling scandal . can I press the Minister for more detail on the specific of how the scheme will work for bereaved child and parent of victim ? how and when will they be able to register for compensation ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . we have previously engage on the British Steel matter and the unscrupulous exploitation of people move from define benefit to define contribution scheme . that be at the top of my mind and I be apply it to my consideration of these matter . the hon . Gentleman ask about his constituent David and bereaved child . the principle be that affected and infected individual qualify in their own right . the passporting of affected individual to qualify , base on the infected and the estate of infected , be clear . the detail of how that process will happen will become very clear very quickly . we will make resource available through a website , and people can register for update so that they can receive they as quickly as they wish . forgive I , I can not say more than that today , but I think I have set out the principle of how this will operate . the operationalisation need to happen quickly , and I will provide update on that in due course . I would like to pay tribute to my constituent Robert Angwin , who have campaign for justice for himself and all other who have be affect by this scandal for decade . yesterday and today , from both side of the House we have hear the line , " lesson have be learn . action will be take . " I imagine that that be exactly what we would have hear if we be here in 1972 when the thalidomide scandal break . since then , we have have OxyContin , Vioxx and Primodos — the list go on and on , all the way to the experimental covid - 19 vaccine today . do the Minister agree that the only real lesson that have be learn have be learn by the public — that they can not trust any Government to protect they from unsafe medicine and treatment ? crime have be commit . it be a crime to cover up a crime . when be the arrest go to start ? if they have to include current and former member of this House , so be it . I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . Sir Robert make clear some very profound challenge to the british state that need a profound response from Government , and that will happen in due course . my constituent Linda Cannon lose her husband after he receive a blood transfusion that infect he with hepatitis C . my constituent Vera Gaskin have stage 2 chronic cirrhosis of the liver from contaminate blood . she spend her life explain that she be not an alcoholic . what guidance or comfort do the Minister have for my constituent that anybody oversee compensation and justice will be fully transparent and will not end up in the mess in which the expert panel of the Primodos scandal end up ? will the Minister give a cast - iron guarantee that the general election due to be hold this year will not delay any part of this process ? we can not have a situation where the structure and procedure of this place , which have so long protect those in power and allow they to do harm , will thwart the justice in progress for all our constituent . the hon . Lady make a powerful representation on behalf of Linda , Vera and so many other . I can assure she that speed be of the essence . in all circumstance I be try to move forward , with the will of the House as it be . I can not account for when electoral event will be trigger , but I can say that the point about sensitivity to the individual experience and the stigma and trauma associate with engage with officialdom in all aspect need to be properly address through the way that the arm ' s length body be operate . I want to put on record the tenacity of my constituent Steve Bartram , a victim of the blood scandal . he contract hepatitis when he be seven after be experiment on . he be drive out of his home because people believe that he have an infectious disease and have to be run out . he then come to my constituency . I say to the Minister that Steve welcome what have be say but be anxious , like thousand of other , that it will not work out . I guess he could look at a compensation scheme like the one for the Windrush scandal , where less than 10 % of those who be owe compensation have receive anything . Steve and many other , with good reason , be extremely anxious that the Government will follow through on this . can the Minister ensure that they do ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . it be a reasonable characterisation that this be welcome but that there be anxiety . it be my job to meet that anxiety with practical step that secure confidence in the passage to full delivery . I have set out those in some detail . there will be a number of document that the hon . Gentleman can send to his constituent to support what I have say , as can all colleague across the House . I hope that will be helpful and informative and will remove some of the anxiety that exist . it be vital that we not only thank the campaigner who have struggle through pain and loss to get to this situation but appreciate the deep public service they have carry out in expose this outrageous scandal . although I welcome what seem to be a comprehensive statement on compensation today , this scandal have go on too long and should be conclude quickly for compensation to be pay . however , that be only part of the issue of justice for the campaigner . I appreciate what the Minister say about his ability to talk about future event , but will he at least commit his government to the principle of ensure that those involve in deliberate cover - up , add to delay and suffer and cause death , will face justice themselves ? I can not speak for the collective will of Government , but the hon . Gentleman make a completely reasonable and logical case . I support the principle in what he say . we need to respond the report ' s recommendation specifically , coherently and in full , and that be what we will do in due course . yesterday ' s apology and the compensation announce today be the beginning of justice for the thousand of life lose and ruin . the Minister will know that Sir Brian Langstaff find " downright deception " and " an attitude of denial " , and that he be clear that the scandal have be no accident . public service be an honour that come with great responsibility . individual and organisation have fail in that responsibility and betray that honour . I hear the Minister ' s early response , but will he at least indicate to we when the Government will express a view on criminal charge ? I thank the hon . Lady for her powerful representation on that matter . I can not give she a categorical assurance , but by set out the clear opportunity to discuss the report in its different dimension , hopefully in a few week ' time , I hope we will start that process . other Ministers will lead on some of the matter and where the evidence lead we will determine our option , but she speak for many hon . member across the House when she say that these be serious matter that need a serious response from different element of Government . I want to acknowledge three of my constituent who have be in touch over the past few week : one lose her brother and her cousin as a result of treatment for haemophilia ; and two , include Karen Pearce , have suffer lifelong health problem as a result of be infect . I have be in this place for rather less time than many of my colleague — less than two and a half year — but , just in that short period , I be strike by the number of scandal involve huge institutional cover - up . I echo the comment , make by colleague from all party , that we must have a duty of candour , because we will repeat mistake again and again until we have that . I thank the hon . Lady for point about a duty of candour , which several hon . member have make . the Government will reflect very carefully and respond in due course . I welcome the Paymaster General ' s statement , but many of we have be come here for the past year ask for a response to Sir Brian Langstaff ' s interim report from last April . we have be tell that the Government be move at pace , but there be no evidence of that , even with today ' s statement . Sir Brian Langstaff have make some clear recommendation about how he want oversight of the recommendation go forward . that must involve the victim , because that be why we be here today . the victim , who have doggedly and determinedly demand that they have justice in this affair , have bring we to this point , where the Paymaster General be make a statement , and they must have oversight of how we respond to Sir Brian Langstaff ' s report , just as the House must have . member from across the House have be try to hold the Government to account . the Horizon scheme have an advisory body to oversee compensation , which include hon . member from this House and the other place . do the Minister envisage have a similar advisory body for this compensation scheme ? I do not think the hon . Gentleman can characterise what I have announce today as not make significant progress . I be not here to claim credit for it or to say what it be attribute to , other than the work of Sir Brian Langstaff and those who have campaign . the immediate next step will be the work of Sir Robert Francis — this be at the core of what I have say — to engage with the infected and affected community , and to define the regulation that the Government be rightly oblige to bring to the House within three month of the Bill receive Royal Assent . the hon . Gentleman make another point about how the House can be involve in the accountability of that arm ' s length body . I be happy to reflect on that and come back at another point . may I put on the record my absolute admiration for the victim , their family and love one throughout the process ? I pay tribute to my constituent Susan Hallwood and her partner Dave McCall . Susan have three son , all of whom have haemophilia . two receive contaminate blood , and both contract HIV and die of AIDS : Brian age 16 , and Stephen age nine . Susan give evidence at the inquiry , and I thank she for do so . it be right that they be receive an apology and compensation , but of course that will never be enough . I ask the Minister to address the issue of individual accountability , for those culpable of do wrong , and organisational accountability . what can he do to ensure this be not another example of compensation without accountability to add to Hillsborough , Windrush and other scandal we have see ? the hon . Gentleman speak powerfully about his constituent Susan and David and their family . he also make the point that compensation by itself be clearly not enough . with respect to the wide accountability of institution , hospital and civil servant , and the interaction between civil servant , Government Ministers and the NHS , there be a lot of complexity about how we respond appropriately and thoughtfully , both on the case take together and individually . I hope he will respect what I be say and that we can engage on this in the Chamber at a future point . I be contact this morning by a constituent who , to the good of my knowledge , have never come forward before ; I be still try to establish that . as a 12 - year - old girl , she receive a blood transfusion that be infect with hepatitis C . she have live with that infection for 70 year , because she be infect not in the 1970 but in the 1950 . will the Minister give an assurance that the compensation and other support that have be outline today will be available to all victim , regardless of how long ago they be infect ? will he outline what he be do to ensure that other , such as my constituent , do not miss out simply because they do not realise this apply to they ? the eligibility be clear : people who be infect by NHS blood , blood product and infected tissue qualify . the only challenge be how to verify that from record from a long time ago . however , such challenge can be meet and we need to find way of do so . I pay tribute to all those infected and affect in my constituency of Cynon Valley , in Wales and beyond , in particular Lynne Kelly , the chair of Haemophilia Wales , who have campaign tirelessly , over many decade , for justice . the inquiry ' s compensation report recommend that an interim payment be make to " recognise the death of people to date unrecognised " , include to bereaved parent , child and sibling . the Minister meet with Haemophilia Wales a fortnight ago and will be aware there be 28 such case in Wales . in his statement he make reference to interim payment , but will he clarify that interim payment for previously unrecognised death , include those in Wales , will be make ? will he be specific about when individual will receive those payment ? will they be pay through the Wales infect blood support scheme , or will they have to wait for the UK compensation scheme to be establish ? the hon . Lady be right to pay tribute to Lynne Kelly , whom I meet in Cardiff . to clarify , I have be talk about two interim payment . we have put one payment into legislation to provide £ 100 , 000 to the estate of the deceased infect , where previously they have not receive that payment . we be work through how that will work with the infected blood support scheme . I can not update the House on that at this moment because we be work with the scheme to determine that . the second interim payment for the living infect be £ 210 , 000 , build on the £ 100 , 00 at the end of 2022 . that will happen within 90 day , start in the summer , and it will be give through the exist infected blood compensation scheme ' s interim payment in order to expedite it as quickly as possible . then we will update in the autumn with respect to the balance in payment , which , as member will recognise , be part of a big payment that people will be entitle to , and how that work accord to the journey of work and engagement with the community over the next few week . for more than 20 year , I have support constituent catch up in this unprecedented scandal and tragedy . I wish to mention just two of they : Bill Wright , whom the Minister know , who have lead Haemophilia Scotland with such energy and enthusiasm for the past three decade ; and Tricia Titheridge , who introduce I to the scandal back in 2001 when I be first elect . unfortunately , she can not be with we because she die of aids - relate condition in 2013 . I wish to say well do to the Minister , because I think he have deliver . he have answer question and reassure people genuinely well about some of the outstanding issue . I have suspect that I would be call last in this statement , so I will just say to he that he will know what be now require . I think he have the compensation side of it right , but it be the responsibility and accountability side of the equation that now have to be address . he have talk about a debate when we come back after Whitsun . he have hint that other Departments will be look at all of this , but we need to know what tangible effort and energy will be put into this to ensure that the people responsible be hold to account for the decade of obfuscation , of not take responsibility and for the lie that come to we as Members of Parliament from Ministers and official . when will we hear about the solid action that will be take to address all of this ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his kind word , particularly his word about Bill Wright , whom I enjoy meet , and who have campaign on this so hard and for so long . Bill and his colleague engage with I in a constructive way , ask I reasonable but tough question , and I hope that I have answer some of those today . the hon . Gentleman draw I from the compensation to other element , and I be frustrated that I can not offer he more clarity today , but he put on record the need for a substantive response on a number of other element beyond compensation . he can be assure of my continue commitment to deliver on that journey to full implementation of compensation , as I have set out . twenty year ago , the late former chair of the Scottish Infected Blood Forum , Philip Dolan , say that , for year , every time we have reach the top of the mountain , the cloud lift and there be another mountain to climb . I think , from the Minister ' s statement today , there be some sense that there might not be another mountain to climb , but there be a need for some transparency , particularly in what he have say about eligibility , tariff , the appeal process and , crucially , timeline , so that people can have confidence about when this will happen . will people have access to legal aid if they wish to appeal their case ? on the point about exist compensation scheme , there have be some concern from a number of people about what have be announce today . in answer to the hon . member for Cumbernauld , Kilsyth and Kirkintilloch East ( Stuart C . McDonald ) , the Minister say that they would be shape by people , and that these scheme would not simply be abolish , but he have put a firm deadline of 31 March 2025 , so can he outline exactly how people will be part of that process so they do not feel that they have lose out once again in this process ? the hon . Gentleman ask a number of question . I have not say that the exist scheme will stop on 31 March 2025 . what I have commit to be that thereafter there will be a process , uncertain at this point , with respect to when individual will have their full assessment make , and I have make some assertion on how that need to work . I have not set out some of the other thing around accountability , transparency and so on , because they need to be inform by the community , through the process that Sir Robert Francis will be lead in the come week . I hope it will be a constructive , iterative process with the Government in order that the output of that work will subsequently lead we to the right position in term of the regulation that we bring before the House . may I start by pay tribute to two of my constituent here today ? Rachel and Justine Gordon - Smith have fight an extraordinary battle on behalf of their father over many year . I pay tribute to their strength and ability to continue in the face of what sometimes look like intransigence from the Government . they and the infected blood community will , I know , welcome much of what the Minister have announce today , but they be understandably wary of Government after the deception and delay of the past . can he guarantee full transparency in the deliberation of the arm ' s length body , and do he agree that appropriate governance , as he say , would be achieve by include representative of the community as member ? I thank the hon . Lady for her question . indeed , I have meet Justine Gordon - Smith , who , have lose her father , have be a tenacious campaigner on behalf of so many . I can confirm that we will do everything we can to ensure that we find a way to work with all infected and affected community — there be considerable difference between they in their view on how thing should be conduct — as these regulation be form , and also to ensure that the right oversight take place so that this arm ' s length body will be something that they can rely on and have full confidence in , wherever they be in the UK . six constituent have be in touch with I who have be infect and affect by this awful scandal . many of they still want to maintain anonymity , such be the stigma that persist today about the illness that they have contract , but I be very pleased to see that my constituent Maria be there yesterday . she first come to see I in December 2015 . eight - and - a - half year , on top of the long time that she already have to wait , be a long and arduous journey . I be glad and I hope that she and all those infected and affected get what they want from Sir Brian Langstaff ' s report yesterday . I wish to ask the Minister about what he say in his statement about interim payment . I be not clear whether the six constituent who have be in touch with I will be eligible for those because he say that interim payment will be make to live infected beneficiary , and to the estate of those who pass away between now and payment be make . it be not clear to I whether , if somebody tragically pass away yesterday , their estate would be eligible for that ; nor be it clear from the interim report whether all such people would be eligible until the final scheme be in place . it would be perverse , would it not , if child whose parent have die or adult who have tragically lose their child might not be eligible for these interim payment . can I ask for some clarity on that eligibility because there be people who should not be lose out — they have already suffer too much — and they should be eligible for these payment as soon as possible . I thank the hon . Lady for her question . I note her presence there yesterday , alongside I . I be happy to engage with she to clarify the position for her individual constituent . I be reluctant to make binding assertion on individual on the Floor of the House because I do not want to mislead she or anyone else . but I would be very happy , if she write to I , to respond to she as fully as I can . rise — and , finally , Jim Shannon . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be a real pleasure to ask a question . first , may I thank the Government for their apology and for their compensation ? I thank the Minister for his tone and his word , which be very humbly speak , and which I think encourage we all across this Chamber . that be not easy to do , give all the question that be put forward . victim have highlight what they deem to be a lack of recognition and a lack of accountability . today , there be a recognition , yet I feel that within the accountability there must be safeguard to ensure that similar medical experimental method can not be permit to take hold and bring these devastating result ever again . do the Minister not agree that , while we can not put right the wrong , we can and must safeguard future child and adult and that this dreadful family - destroy , heartbreaking , life - change lesson be one which we have all unwillingly and , indeed , shamefully learn ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his thoughtful question , and I put on record my satisfaction at be in Belfast as part of the engagement exercise I undertake . in some way , some of what Sir Brian Langstaff speak about we could not envisage happen again , because of change that have happen in the health service and the way thing operate 40 or 50 year on , but what he talk about be much deep : it be about the culture of transparency , dependency and candour between civil servant , the NHS and Government . that be a much more complicated set of issue to meet appropriately and fully . if the hon . Gentleman will forgive I , I will not be able to respond to his specific point today . however , he articulate the challenge that we need to meet as a Government , and I look forward to play my part , whatever that be , in meet it . that conclude proceeding on the statement . I thank the Minister for have take a very large number of question , for have remain at the Dispatch Box for well over two hour and for have answer every question thoroughly and carefully . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker , this morning a Home Office - commission report from Lord Walney be present in Parliament use the motion for unopposed return procedure , effectively protect it from any kind of legal challenge . however , the report read as a highly political document and include proposal , for example , for very serious restriction on civil liberty and human right . I understand it be not in order for member to criticise a member of the House of Lords in the Chamber , and Lord Walney ' s interest as a pay adviser for the arm and oil industry be register in the Register of Lords ' interest . however , could you advise the House on whether , when a report be give legal cover by this House , it would be at least healthy for scrutiny to have an additional requirement for any relevant interest by a report ' s author to be specifically flag to this House as well ? I thank the hon . Lady for her point of order . I can confirm that the effect of this morning ' s motion be that the report be publish by order of the House . she ask about the financial interest of member of the House of Lords , which of course be not a matter for the Chair of the House of Commons , but I appreciate that she make a serious and valid point about the way in which the matter have be present to this House . if she have concern about the content of the report , I would advise she to discuss with the Table Office how she might pursue the matter far . there be various line of action open to she . child ( Parental Imprisonment ) Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to require the Secretary of State to establish national policy guideline in respect of child with a parent in prison , include for the identification of the child of prisoner at the point of sentence and for accountability for provide support to the child of prisoner ; and for connected purpose . I want to start by say what this Bill be not about . it be not about prisoner , although there be some good and important work be do with prisoner and their family . we know there be often a value in maintain family tie : it help prisoner to cope with their sentence and make it less likely that they will reoffend when they be release . however , this Bill be not about they . it be about their child , some of whom will have contact with their parent in prison and many of whom will not . if the parent be inside for domestic violence or for sexual offence involve child , or , indeed , if the child be the victim of the parent ' s crime , there might not be contact . if there have be a long history of criminal behaviour , of addiction or violence , or if there be never much of a family unit in the first place , there might not be contact . therefore , we do not start with the prisoner ' s wellbee ; we start with what be in the child ' s good interest — and we start from a difficult place , because we simply do not know how many child have a parent in prison . we do not know who they be , where they be or who be look after they , or at least not in any systemic way . they be the invisible child . Sarah burrow , who be here today , be the chief executive of Children Heard and Seen , a charity that do excellent work to identify , mentor and support child with parent in prison . she be fond of say that we know exactly how many labrador there be in this country , yet we do not know how many child have a parent in prison . that be why this Bill be need . I be not go to prejudge now what a statutory mechanism for identify and support child with a parent in prison would look like , although I pay tribute to Sergeant Russ Massie of Thames Valley police , and the work he have lead on Operation Paramount , and I think that the unique child identifi number that be be propose by Labour ' s education team might play a role . in 2019 , Crest Advisory estimate that around 312 , 000 child a year be affect by parental imprisonment , and for 17 , 000 of they it be their mother . the Ministry of Justice have now commission a bold — well outcome through link datum — report , which will use Government datum to measure the scale of parental imprisonment and estimate how many child have a parent in prison . those statistic will be release on 13 June . there have be a lot of work behind the scene to get to this point , and I particularly thank the hon . and learn Member for Eddisbury ( Edward Timpson ) for his help , the Children ' s Commissioner , who have back this Bill , and the various Ministers who have meet we over the year . however , we need more than just a snapshot of how many child be affect . we need a statutory mechanism so that , at the point when an adult be sentence to imprisonment , someone find out whether there be any child involve and someone be then responsible for make sure that those child be okay . we know that at the moment that be not always pick up . sometimes the question be not ask . sometimes a prisoner do not want the authority to know because they be worried the kid will be take into care . often school have no idea . child Heard and Seen have see case where child have simply be leave to fend for themselves , and I want to mention a few . a man go to prison for sexual offence , and it be only after the house be target by vigilante that a Victim Support caseworker find his 15 - year - old daughter live there on her own . a criminologist conduct research in a woman ' s prison be tell by a prisoner that her two daughter be live on their own , without any money for food or sanitary protection . a 16 - year - old boy be arrest at the same time as his parent . he be release shortly afterwards and leave to be the sole carer of his eight - year - old brother . an employer request a welfare check after a woman have not show up to work for two month . when the police go to the address , they discover her 15 - year - old son live on his own . there be no gas or electricity , and he have be get up and go to school every day without anyone know that his mum be in prison . kinship carer — grandparent , aunt , uncle and sibling — often play an important role in step up when a parent go to prison , and they need support to do so . however , there be also a real risk that child will end up live somewhere entirely unsuitable , with people who will abuse they , neglect they and exploit they . more often than not there be a parent , usually the mother , at home , but child can still be badly affect . one of the blogger on the child Heard and see website say : " we ' re not victim , we be collateral damage . " there be an emotional loss and a sense of abandonment . there be perhaps a sense of injustice if they feel their mum or dad have be wrongfully jail , or anger that their mum or dad have choose to commit a crime , not care what happen to they as a result . on a practical level , it could mean a big change in the family ' s financial situation , have to move house , move school , or go on to free school meal , or have to change their name and leave town altogether because it have be all over the paper that their dad be a sex offender . I have meet a family that happen to . perhaps most damaging of all be the stigma and the shame of be associate with a parent ' s crime — be bully at school or see as trouble by the teacher . as one mother say : " I ' ve move area because I feel like I be be watch all the time — people be talk and we be be discriminate against , when it be not something that we ' ve do . kid be innocent and I ' ve have to move school , which have just be more upheaval . it ' s just a nightmare . " child hear and see use the hashtag # itwasntme . the child have do nothing wrong , but in many way the child be punish too . the 2019 research from Crest Advisory that I mention early find that child of prisoner be at risk of significantly bad outcome than child not affect by parental imprisonment , include lifelong mental health problem and be involve in the criminal justice system themselves later in life . it have be suggest that 65 % of boy with a parent in prison go on to offend . other say that a child with a parent in prison be three or four time more likely to get into trouble , although it be difficult to separate out other factor in a child ' s upbringing — the same factor that might have lead the parent to become involved in crime , such as poverty or family instability . it be clear that by support and mentor child , it be possible to break that cycle . I have meet many adult , from all walk of life , who be still deeply affect by the trauma of their childhood experience . we have meet in this building ; we have share story . it be strike just how difficult it be for they to talk about it , many year down the line . it be clear that by support and mentor child , it be possible to break that cycle . I have meet many adult , from all walk of life , who be still deeply affect by the trauma of their childhood experience . we have meet in this building ; we have share story . it be strike just how difficult it be for they to talk about it , many year down the line . a few month ago , I watch " the Edge of everything " , a brilliant documentary about Ronnie o ' Sullivan , whose father be jail for murder when he be 17 . it be heartbreaking to hear he talk about that , and to see the pain writ large on his face some 30 year later . he have be world no . 1 and have win world championship , yet that experience still very much live with he . other celebrity have also speak out about their experience . John Bishop be six when his father go to jail . he have say that visit he " be a dehumanising experience . we be treat like cattle … the injustice my dad suffer have a massive impact on the person I be . " Romesh Ranganathan have also speak about visit his dad , who be serve a two - year sentence for fraud . he say : " it be horrific . you just become numb to it . those experience definitely have a profound effect on I . " every child ' s story will be different . some child who have a parent in prison might be do just fine , but the chance be that they be not , so we need to know who they be , where they be , how they be cope and who be look after they . they be not to blame ; it wasn ' t they . question put and agree to . order , that Kerry McCarthy , Mr Clive Betts , Sir Robert Buckland , Andrew Gwynne , Ms Harriet Harman , Dame Diana Johnson , Tim Loughton , John McDonnell , Jess Phillips , Edward Timpson , Nadia Whittome and Munira Wilson present the Bill . Kerry McCarthy accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time Friday 14 June , and to be print ( Bill 222 ) . Digital Markets , Competition and Consumers Bill consideration of Lords message I advise the House that Mr Speaker have select the manuscript amendment in the name of Sir Chris Bryant . copy be available in the Vote Office . after clause 308 - secondary ticket facility I beg to move , that this House disagree with the Lords in their amendment and propose amendment ( a ) and ( b ) to the Bill in lieu of the Lords Amendment 104B . the Bill will drive growth and deliver well outcome for consumer across the UK . both Houses have now reach agreement on digital market measure relate to appeal , proportionality , the countervail benefit exemption and guidance . however , the Bill return to the House today as the need to agree on secondary ticketing remain outstanding . lord amendment 104b , table by Lord Moynihan , would introduce additional regulatory requirement on resale site . in our view , new regulation should be consider only if they be necessary , proportionate and future - proof , and should not duplicate exist rule . simply add new rule and regulation that add little to what be already there be not the answer to the problem of the secondary ticketing market . the first provision that the Lords seek to add to the Bill would require secondary ticketing platform to obtain proof of purchase of the ticket from the reseller before list the ticket for resale , but it be already a criminal offence — of unfair trading or fraud — for a reseller to offer for sale product that can not be legally sell . I pay tribute to my hon . friend for his work , as well as to Lord Moynihan , who have doggedly pursue this matter with the Government . my hon . friend rightly point out that make additional regulation for the sake of it be not something that we as a Government would support , but can he tell I why the Competition and Markets Authority have prosecute so few people under the current regulatory structure over recent year ? we believe that the problem be about enforcement , not regulation . the reason why the CMA have not prosecute anybody be that it do not have the responsibility or the right to prosecute seller on ticket site . it have jurisdiction over the platform , but not the seller . we be give the cma that opportunity and those power , which we think will make a profound difference . secondly , the Lords amendment require that the ticket ' s face value and trader ' s detail be clearly visible to the consumer , but likewise , existing legislation already provide that trader must make that information clear and comprehensible . the amendment would also prevent reseller from sell more ticket than can be legally purchase from the primary market . we agree with the principle , but believe that to be unenforceable . many source on the primary market sell ticket , and each have their own ticket limit . the Bill could have such a significant impact in tackle the issue associate with secondary ticket site , and could reduce instance of fraud and online scam . I do not understand why the Minister be so reluctant to commit to the recommendation make by the CMA . that be all we want implement through the Lords amendment . the CMA report differ from the amendment propose by the Lords . we believe that Lord Moynihan ' s requirement relate to face value and the address of the trader be already cover . what be miss from the amendment be the ability to enforce regulation . there have be prosecution only recently , a couple of month ago ; there have be a four - year sentence and a £ 6 million confiscation order , so we be see prosecution by National Trading Standards , but we believe that the CMA will have a more profound effect if it can tackle this issue . my question be similar to that of the hon . member for Richmond Park ( Sarah Olney ) . I just do not understand why the Government do not get involve with this . from what I have read of the Lords debate and what Lord Moynihan say , that be exactly what happen for the London Olympics in 2012 . Ireland have get rid of the secondary market because it think it very corrosive indeed . I also understand that fan be frequently in tear outside venue such as the O2 because they have buy the wrong ticket from the secondary market . as the political wing of the very noble tartan army , I would not want fan to be unable to get into game at the Euros in the come week because of irregularity in the secondary market . if that happen , will the Minister commit to come back and change tack ? the hon . Gentleman raise important point . alongside what we be do to give the cma more enforcement power , which we think be need , we be also commit to a review of the primary and secondary market over the next nine month , in order to see what else can be do to ensure that the secondary ticketing process be fair for consumer . the Minister be generous in give way , and I appreciate it . have he speak to his counterpart in Ireland about what they have do in this area , why they have do it , and what the effect have be ? that might be instructive . yes , we be aware of what be happen in Ireland , where there be a complete prohibition on secondary ticketing sale . our concern about that be obvious : secondary sale be then just drive underground into a black market . that be what we have see in Ireland . indeed , ticket to see Taylor Swift in Dublin be available on the internet at exactly the same , or a similar , price as ticket to see she in the UK , so we do not think that be a solution . we be look for a practical solution that work across the piece . a person could purchase multiple ticket from different source on the primary market and resell they on a platform . that would make it nearly impossible for either the platform or an enforcer to calculate what the total limit of ticket should be . we must avoid the trap of think that we be solve problem simply by add word to legislation . we should not be tempt to devise legislation that can not be implement . we believe that the solution lie not in more regulation , but in regulation — in other word , enforcement . this House have already radically strengthen the CMA ' s enforcement power in part 3 of the Bill . that strengthen applie to all consumer law , include on secondary ticketing . the CMA will have civil fine power , and fine could total 10 % of the global turnover of firm break consumer law . new power will mean that the CMA can process many more case even more quickly . however , the Government appreciate the strength of feeling in both Houses on the issue of secondary ticketing . we have therefore table Government amendment to far strengthen the enforcement power . amendment ( a ) and ( b ) in lieu of Lords amendment 104b will give the CMA new power , first to enforce exist rule against unfair buying - up of ticket use electronic bot , and secondly to enforce exist rule on the information that platform and reseller must present to consumer . that be in addition to the Government ' s previous commitment to review the primary and secondary ticketing market . that review will allow we to gain a deep understanding of how ticket flow from the primary market to the secondary market . it will also include consideration of the timeliness and effectiveness of the information that must be provide to buyer , and of what reassurance be necessary for consumer to be confident that ticket offer be genuine . take together , the CMA ' s new enforcement power and the upcoming Government review represent a clear strengthening of consumer protection . they will help to ensure that further step can be take in future , in the light of the good practice that have recently be emerge in the market . I be again grateful to the Minister for give way , but like the hon . member for Richmond Park ( Sarah Olney ) , I be still stumped as to why the Government be not the champion of the consumer — the small person or small family who face the disappointment of financial loss . I hear what the Minister say about law be enforce — that could apply to any law — but law also have a deterrent effect , and it would be quite useful to have that deterrent effect . the hon . Gentleman make a fair point . I agree with he about the deterrent effect , but to I , that deterrent effect be deliver through enforcement and prosecution , which be make it easy to deal with the platform . as for the Lords amendment , information such as the seller ' s address be already require under schedule 2 to the 2013 consumer contract regulation , and the face value of the ticket must be display under clause 90 ( 3 ) ( c ) of the Consumer Rights Act 2015 , so that be already cover . it be enforcement that we need to improve . do the Minister agree that the selling - on of ticket have always happen , and always will ? it be important to reinforce exist safeguard , rather than make the secondary ticket market unviable and push people into unregulated space where they get no protection at all . at the moment , they do get protection from most of the site that sell ticket on the secondary market . I absolutely agree with my hon . friend . the concern be that we would simply drive people into a black market ; that seem to have happen in Ireland . the CMA have say that cap price , which be what the Opposition want , would not reduce the incentive to resell , for exactly the reason my hon . friend have point out , so through the Bill , we be take the pragmatic step of increase the enforcement of current regulation , while also look at the wide picture , in the review , to see whether improvement can be make . we think that be the right balance . in conclusion , I encourage this House to agree with the Government ' s position on Lords amendment 104b , and accept the Government ' s propose amendment ( a ) and ( b ) in lieu . it be imperative that Royal Assent be achieve without further delay , so that the legislation can be implement and the Bill ' s benefit realise as quickly as possible . I beg to move manuscript amendment ( a ) , leave out from " House " and insert " agree with the Lords in their amendment " . I confess that I be completely perplex as to why the Government have adopt the attitude that they have take today . the Bill could have go through both house quite easily and have steam ahead to Royal Assent if they have simply agree to these very minor recommendation from the House of Lords . we do something very similar to what the amendment suggest in relation to Olympics ticket , partly because the Olympics ' organiser insist on such legislation for any Olympics , but we also do something very similar for sporting event . the question of why we do not do exactly the same for music , comedy and other event be legitimate . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? the Minister have only just sit down , but now he be intervene on I . I just want to address one of the point that the hon . Gentleman make . he talk about the Olympics , for which there be a complete ban on resale . be that what he be propose ? no . if the Minister will listen for a few more minute , I will get on to precisely what we recommend . indeed , he may remember that in the last debate on this issue , I say very clearly that we do not intend to ban all resale . if somebody have a ticket that they buy themselves , not through a bot , but be unable to use it and want to resell it , that should be a perfectly legitimate process , but the price should be cap at a sensible level — at something like 10 % or 15 % above the original cost . I just want to help the Minister correct the record . through the Olympics legislation , we as a Parliament do not ban resale ; we say that resale have to be authorise . I do not want he to have that wrong on the record . indeed . I will come to authorise resale later , because it be a real problem with the way that the market operate . fan be very unclear whether the ticket they have buy through the secondary market be authorise by the original vendor — that is , the venue or one of its authorised vendor — and therefore whether they will actually be admit in the end . that be one of the problem : even when fan be pay very inflated price , they be not certain that the ticket they be buy be a genuine ticket that will gain they admittance to the event they have pay for . over the year , member have repeatedly give evidence — will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I ask the hon . gentleman to let I make a little progress . I be still on the first sentence of my speech . over the year , member have repeatedly give evidence that the secondary ticket market be not work : with ticket advertise with no declaration as to whether they be real , or of their face value ; website that only declare the face value of a ticket at the very last stage , with a clock tick away and the fan already hook ; fake ticket be sell , leave consumer out of pocket and completely in the lurch ; ticket sell without evidence of proof of purchase , or of the seller ' s title to the ticket ; and website circumvent artist and venue ' policy on the resale of ticket . Taylor swift ticket with a face value of £ 75 be presently sell on Viagogo for £ 6 , 840 . if a Foo Fighters fan from the Rhondda want to buy a ticket to see they at Cardiff ' s Principality Stadium , it would have cost they £ 95 direct from that stadium ; on Viagogo today , that exact same ticket would cost they £ 395 . if a child from the Rhondda who love space and hope to one day become an aeronautical engineer want to see " Tim Peake : Astronauts - the Quest to explore Space " at Swansea Arena , they would have pay £ 48 . 75 face value ; on Viagogo , they would have to find £ 134 . this be about much more than just price gouging and rip people off from their hard - earn money : it be rob child of their chance to be inspire , to spark a creative idea , to see a career in our grow creative industry , or to learn from an expert . that be why I wish the Government be adopt the measure pass by the House of Lords . fan , the people who really create the value , be be exclude from live concert . the UK ' s secondary ticketing market be estimate to be worth £ 1 billion annually , but it be rife with fraud and scamming , which affect people every single day . I would not even mind if just some of the inflated price money go into the creative industry , and into train young people and provide they with a creative education , but not a single penny of it do . it be set to get bad , too : ticket security expert Reg Walker have report " a massive escalation " of harvesting use software . People who have long use bot to bulk - buy item such as iPhones be now turn to ticket touting because it be more profitable , and accord to Reg Walker , there be a new generation of young , tech - savvy armchair tout " smash ticket system to bit " . it be a market that simply do not work , and Labour will fix it . the Lords have give we a perfectly sensible measure . their amendment establish a legal requirement that secondary ticket facility must not permit a trade or business to list ticket without evidence of proof of purchase or evidence of title , a matter not mention by the Minister . it forbid a reseller from sell more ticket to an event than they can legally purchase on the primary market . it require the face value of any ticket list for resale , and the trader or business ' s name and trading address , to be clearly visible in full on the first page on which a purchaser can view the ticket — I have have a bit of debate with the Minister about that proposal , so I will come on to the specific later . it also require the Government to lay before Parliament the outcome of a review of the effect of these measure on the secondary ticketing market within nine month of Royal Assent . I can not understand why any sane person would oppose such a measure , unless it be purely and simply for ideological reason . on such ideological reason , the conservative party claim to be the party of Adam Smith , but if we read " the Wealth of Nations " , we see that the behaviour of the renti class be not exactly praise by Adam Smith , and this be pure rent seek . as the hon . Gentleman say , this be take a ticket at £ 75 , charge 90 time that and do nothing to add any value at all . this be rent seek , and ideologically it should be oppose by the conservative party . the hon . Member make a very good point . indeed , in the main the market be a good thing — it can operate to produce good and efficient outcome in society — but in this case the market be not work , and where the market do not work , the state have to intervene . I can not understand why any sane person should oppose such a measure , but unfortunately the Government have . their amendment ( a ) in lieu be a weak sock puppet of a concession . it do not strengthen the rule ; it simply leave they in place . it do not prevent ticket from be sell without evidence of proof of purchase or the seller ' s title to the ticket . it do not limit the quantity of resale ticket to the original number limit by the seller or artist . it leave in place the current system for show the face value of a ticket , despite the fact that section 90 ( 8 ) of the Consumer Rights Act 2015 , in my view and in the view of everybody who have speak to member about this , be very opaque and open to interpretation — or , I would argue , open to deliberate misinterpretation by the secondary ticketing market . for instance , Viagogo do not say " face value " , but have a little box that say " FV " , which be not explain anywhere on the website , and people have to click on that . if Viagogo genuinely want to be open and transparent , it would say " face value " , and put the price at the very beginning . StubHub be similarly advertise ticket for Taylor Swift on 21 June at £ 711 , but nowhere on the first page do it give the face value . I note that , if someone go on to the second page , it say $ 75 there , but I be tell that that be not the actual cost of the ticket . Seatsnet have ticket for Murrayfield — for Taylor Swift again — sell at £ 1 , 294 . 79 or £ 1 , 092 . 15 each , and nowhere do it give the face value of the ticket . interestingly , AEG Presents and AXS , which be manage the ticket for the concert at Murrayfield , say that ticket be strictly not to be resold : " any ticket find to be purchase via re - sale on the non - official secondary market will not be valid for entry into the concert . " in other word , it be completely in doubt whether the ticket be sell at £ 711 or £ 1 , 294 be ticket that will actually gain admittance for an individual . the hon . Gentleman refer to Viagogo , and I have just go on to its website . he mention the " FV " symbol , but when I click on it , it tell I the face value of the ticket . do I misunderstand the point he make ? yes , the hon . Member do misunderstand the point I make . why do it not just say " face value " , instead of " FV " , which would be perfectly simple ? for that matter , why should people have to click on it ? the point of the Lords amendment be very clear , and it be that people should know from the very first time they see the ticket what the face value of that ticket be . I be perfectly happy , if people want to be scamme , that they should be free to be scamme , but they should at least know from the very first point at which they seek to buy a ticket what the face value of the ticket be . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will give way to the hon . member , although I be keen to move on . I be very grateful . as the hon . Gentleman be struggle so much with the previous intervention , I think I would intervene and give he a way out . if he get his way , all that will happen be that all of these ticket sell on the secondary market will be sell by spivs outside the location of an event . why do the hon . Gentleman think that consumer will be well protect by spivs sell these ticket outside the event than by their be sell on official secondary ticket market ? because of the scale ! the secondary ticket market be the spivs : it be precisely the same set of people scamme the system and the public . they be take advantage of people ' s desire to get ticket , and thereby make the market simply not work in the interest of the creator of the art , the fan , or the stadium and venue themselves . that be why we want to take action . the hon . Gentleman be quite right about the market not work . the point that have be miss hugely by Conservative Members be that a finite number of ticket be go on sale , and this finite number be be gobble up by the spivs , speculator and whoever online . he mention the guy outside a venue , but they can only hold so many ticket . it be the scale of this , as I hear the hon . member for Washington and Sunderland West ( Mrs Hodgson ) say from a sedentary position . without the Lords amendment that have be propose , this be be allow on an industrial scale . why be the Government and the conservative party willing to see people rip off ? it be just unbelievable . I rather agree with the idea that some conservative Members actually want people to be rip off , and maybe that be what we have see for the last 14 year when we have see taxis rise , but what we get for the taxis have diminish . the Minister say that he want to give more power to the CMA to be able to enforce the action . the problem with that be that the CMA itself give evidence that , when it try to take Viagogo to court , it come up against inherent weakness in the exist consumer protection toolkit , and the Government be not add anything to that consumer protection toolkit whatsoever . indeed , they be deliberately vote down precisely what they say they want . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? no , the Minister will get to reply afterwards , I be sure . [ hon . member : " oh ! " ] so the Minister be beg . I will give way to his begging . I beg the hon . member ' s leave , but can I draw his attention to the comment of the cma before the Bill Committee ? one witness say exactly this in response to the point he have just raise : " we think that many of the change in the Bill will address those weakness directly by give we civil fine power for the first time . " – – [ Official Report , Digital Markets , Competition and Consumers Bill Public Bill Committee , 13 June 2023 ; c . 7 , Q3 . ] it be not right to say that the cma be get no more ability to oversee this regime . no , because I read that completely differently from the way the Minister do . if the Minister be right , why be it only at this stage that he have choose to bring forward amendment ( a ) in lieu ? precisely as with every single step of the way on ticket touting that we have see over the last 14 year , somebody move an amendment in the House of Lords — quite often Lord Moynihan , wonderful man that he be — and the Government be drag kick and scream to introduce sensible measure that have cross - party support , but that the Government object to for some bizarre ideological reason . labour will strengthen the consumer right legislation to protect fan from fraudulent ticket practice , restrict the resale of more ticket than permissible and ensure anybody buy a ticket from the secondary market can see — clearly , easily , readily and absolutely unambiguously — what the original price of that ticket be and where it come from . all of this could have be do today if the Government have not reject the Lords amendment , but support Labour on the cross - party amendment from the Lords . however , they have put tout before fan , and profit before the public . if Labour be give the chance to form a government , we will also go far . we will restrict the resale of ticket at more than a small set percentage over the price the original purchaser pay for it . no more tout buy a £ 50 ticket and sell it on for £ 500 ; no more bulk buying of seat for Taylor Swift concert that could go to a 13 - year - old fan from Wigan , but instead go to a millionaire from the US . no more scalping of our creative industry and artist , who set reasonable price for their ticket , only to find somebody else make money off their talent and hard work by resell they at 10 time the price . minister say that the CMA will enforce more , but I doubt that anything will change as a result of anything the Government be intend to do with this measure . I call the SNP spokesman . it be a pleasure to speak in this debate , much as I wish we be not here , because we would not need to be here if the Government have do the decent , sensible thing and accept the Lords amendment . we have hear story in intervention and substantive contribution , and in past debate , about the effect of an under - regulate secondary market that leave fan pay over the odd for ticket , and place experience beyond the financial reach of family . there be also a high risk involve that ticket purchase that way will not even grant entry to the event , and I have hope that by this stage the Government might have read the room , understand that , and decide to respond in a meaningful manner . let we be in no doubt : the Government amendment do little other than add the Competition and Markets Authority to the list of body that be able to enforce the already exist and inadequate rule on secondary ticket sale . as just about all Opposition Members can see , even if Government member can not , the exist rule be not work as well as they be intend to work . my hon . friend make a good point about the power give to the cma , and I wonder whether the Government can increase the ability to finance and give capacity to the CMA to deal with this sort of stuff , or be this just something that have be pass on in paper ? perhaps the Minister will be able to deal with that question when he respond to the debate . certainly the measure might bring a bit more resource , but it will also spread the resource for the cma that little bit more thinly . the fact that the rule be not work as effectively as they need to have be evidence in previous debate , when we have hear of obscure charging practice , of pressure to pay with countdown timer , and of the exorbitant end price that often result . the Government amendment be fine as far as it go . it might bring a little more resource to the problem and a more strategic capability when tackle rule - breaker . I also give two cheer when the Minister announce the promise of an inquiry at the tail end of the previous debate , but the Government be still not take those practical measure that could be take today with amendment 104B to clean up the marketplace for secondary ticketing . Amendment 104B would involve measure such as a requirement to provide proof of purchase or evidence of title for the ticket for sale , which would forbid reseller from sell more ticket than they would legally have be able to purchase from the primary market . it would ensure that the face value and end price pay be clearly visible , along with the name and trading address of those do the secondary vending . crucially , it would also allow secondary legislation to be introduce , which could take account of and bring in anything from the inquiry that the Minister have announce , and it would compel the Secretary of State to have conclude that work within nine month . contrary to what the Minister say , I believe that the measure in Lords amendment 104B be proportionate and add clearly to the exist Bill . Lord amendment 104B be a bit like Lords amendment 104 which come before it . indeed , it be almost the holy grail of amendment — it be popular , it do not cost anything , and more to the point it would be effective and do the right thing in the right way for the right reason . I do not think I be speak out of turn when I say that hardly any Government in these isle , whether Labour in Wales , the SNP in Scotland or the Conservatives at UK level , be so overwhelmed with public support and good will at this time that they can afford to turn down good idea when they be present to they on a plate . it be therefore baffle that the Government would seek once again to steer these practical and effective measure off the road and into the ditch . I will conclude my remark by remark on the " Dear Colleague " letter that be send from the Minister yesterday , in which he express a clear desire to get the Bill on to the statue book without delay . not a single Member of the House look at the Bill in its totality would want it to be delay , but we want it to go forward into legislation in as strong a form as it can be . that , for I , clearly mean go forward in a way that can tackle the egregious abuse of people ' s trust , and the reasonable expectation they have when they participate in the secondary ticketing market . accept the Lords amendment would allow everyone to do that , and I hope the Government will take heed of the genuine strength of view that exist on this matter , not just within this House or the other place , but outside and among the population at large , and that they will allow the Bill to progress as amend accordingly . I rise to support Lords Amendment 104B , which seek to safeguard fan from the fraudulent abuse that be rife in the secondary ticketing market . like my hon . friend the Member for Rhondda ( Sir Chris Bryant ) , I be really disappointed that the Government have repeatedly refuse to accept the amendment to the Bill table by Lord Moynihan . in fact , for many year before that , they have fail to act as advise by my hon . friend the Member for Washington and Sunderland West ( Mrs Hodgson ) and her colleague on the all - party parliamentary group on ticket abuse , support by FanFair Alliance . the Lords amendment include the minimum of protection that fan deserve . it would ensure that anyone resell a ticket have to show evidence that they have buy the ticket in the first place . as we have be hear , that be a big issue in the secondary market , where ticket tout often list ticket that they do not own . the Lords amendment also aim to stop tout from list more ticket to an event than they can legally purchase from the primary market . if the Minister look at Viagogo ' s listing for BBC Radio 1 upcoming big Weekend , he will see that tout base in Germany be sell more than 10 time as many ticket as can legally be acquire . he have say that measure to do anything about that be unenforceable , but that should not be an excuse . we can not be stand here in this House and say that a law that we could pass be unenforceable — it be ridiculous . another important measure in the Lords amendment be provision for a review to be publish within nine month of the Bill pass . that be an urgent issue , and the Government must be ambitious in act to tackle it . I point out again to the Minister that action to crack down on ticket touting have significant support from the music industry and fan . regulate against exploitative secondary ticketing practice be part of the manifesto put forward by music industry body include live music Industry Venues and Entertainment and UK Music . many promoter , artist manager , venue and musician have be highly critical of the market as it currently operate and call on the Government for urgent action to tackle the problem , but it be not just a problem for the music industry ; foremost , as we have hear , it be an issue for fan . it be now commonplace for fan to miss out on ticket to sport and cultural event only to see those same ticket on sale on a secondary ticketing site for far more money than they can afford . with about a third of UK ticket buyer in the low socioeconomic band , those inflated price be reinforce inequality . the price of a ticket can make a significant difference to social and cultural inclusion , in some case enable marginalise or disadvantaged group the opportunity to access event . it be important that many venue and artist now endeavour to widen access to ticket by through - ticket pricing to certain group , but that approach be undermine when tout use software to restrict fan ' access to the primary market and then force they on to resale site such as Viagogo , which charge price at the top of what consumer can bear , as we have be hear . for example — this be disgraceful — I have be tell that tout will buy up discount ticket intend for young people , for people in wheelchair , for carer and for other , and sell they on at the go rate on the secondary market to increase their profit margin . that have a serious impact on those consumer , who be then refuse entry at the door , as well as impact on the venue or artist that have subsidise ticket , and on the people for whom the lower price ticket have be intend and who can no long afford to attend the show . I have speak about music so far , but tout also affect other live event such as sport . most recently , we have see Viagogo list up to 100 ticket for the England versus Iceland friendly at Wembley on 7 June , despite the fact that list football ticket be illegal on unauthorised platform — include Viagogo ' s platform — for reason of the safety of fan . when the Guardian journalist Rob Davies highlight the listing on social medium , Viagogo take down the ticket straightaway . resale platform should not be wait to be catch out before comply with the law , but that be what we be see . another example of a secondary resale site have to be push into act by medium coverage be a recent BBC " watchdog " report that raise concern that some customer have not be able to receive a refund from Viagogo after be send invalid ticket . Beth from Salisbury tell the programme that she have book a trip to Singapore to see her husband ' s favourite band Coldplay as a thank you to he for his unwavering support during her cancer treatment . the two ticket to the show be buy through Viagogo for £ 500 , but when the ticket arrive , the piece of paper say " this be not a valid ticket " . when she try to get a refund , she be refuse , despite the fact that Viagogo have a guarantee , apparently . in fact , it only refund Beth ' s money for the faulty ticket after the BBC " watchdog " report . give the weight of evidence of market dysfunction , which we have hear here and in the other place , it be disappointing that the Minister insist that the Government be already do enough . if that be the case , why not agree to the amendment and see what come out in the review ? the hon . Lady be make a good argument for what the Minister say — ensure well enforcement of exist regulation . that seem to be the thrust of her argument , and what the Government say that they be deliver . it be just not happen . as we hear the last time we debate this issue a few week ago , just six people have be convict of ticket fraud — four of they in the past week . the exploitative practice that my hon . friend the Member for Rhondda ( Sir Chris Bryant ) and I have talk about continue to be rife on resale platform . the Minister must accept that this derisory and dismal record must not continue . labour have commit to a range of strong measure to crack down on ticket tout and fix this break system for fan . will the Government start to accept the weight of evidence and do the same ? I be thrilled to follow my hon . friend the Member for Worsley and Eccles South ( Barbara Keeley ) , who have do so much work on this matter in the past few year , especially since she take on the brief . she make an excellent speech . here we be again . I see that we have be join by the hon . member for Shipley ( Sir Philip Davies ) , who back in 2011 do the terrible thing — he might not think it be , but I do — of talk out my private Member ' s Bill , the Sale of Tickets ( Sporting and Cultural Events ) Bill . if it have be pass , we would not be here today , because we would have already fix this broken market well over a decade ago . I welcome he to his place — I know he like to keep an eye on his handiwork . it be a great shame that the hon . Lady be not listen to 13 year ago , but I have a feeling that , unfortunately , after the Euros , with a political microscope on this issue , we will be back here an awful lot soon than we think . sadly , if amendment 104B be not accept today , that might be the case . I welcome the opportunity to speak in today ' s debate , as short as it might be . I be sure that the Minister be aware that I be here in my capacity as chair of the all - party parliamentary group on ticket abuse , which have do some great work in this area . I support the Opposition ' s manuscript amendment , and therefore support the revise Lords amendment 104b as it relate to the secondary ticketing market . as other have do , I thank the excellent Lord Moynihan for his continue effort as co - chair of the all - party group to regulate black market resale site such as Viagogo . he be right to do so , and I commend his tenacity and brilliant work over many year . I fully support the original amendment 104 , but I warmly welcome the difficult decision to reintroduce the amendment with some notable change . the Government ' s reason for reject the original amendment be : " because protection for consumer in relation to secondary ticketing be adequately provide for under exist legislation . " however , despite uncontrolled tout take place on an industrial scale , with ticket resold through site such as Viagogo , there have not be a single prosecution under the breaching of Limits on Ticket Sales Regulations 2018 , no conviction for use bot under the Digital Economy Act 2017 , and only two major tout prosecution , with six individual conviction , since 2017 . I can hardly see how the Government can describe current legislation as adequate . the hon . Lady mention Lord Moynihan . for context , it should be remember that he be a sport Minister in Margaret Thatcher ' s Government . if a Thatcher Minister be anti - market — the charge make from the Conservative Benches against anyone who support his amendment — either the world have go topsy - turvy or the Tory party have go so far to the right it have lose itself . the hon . Gentleman make exactly the correct point . Lord Moynihan be a highly respected Minister , and he be hardly a lefty — or whatever it be that people call people like I . while I welcome the Government ' s somewhat mute attempt to enforce exist law with their amendment in lieu , fan be cry out for more concrete action . common - sense amendment 104B seem timely , with the so - call " ticket queen " just last week sentence to four year behind bar , but again , with just two case prosecute over six year and only six conviction and zero budget for more , this late prosecution be not a success of the current regulation , but a damn indictment of their inadequacy . Viagogo claim that " bad actor " such as the ticket queen " go against all we stand for " . yet while british music lover be con and defraud by these crook — they be crook , because they be now in jail — Viagogo and other secondary website be likely to have make million of pound in service fee from their transaction , perhaps as much as £ 4 million by my calculation . and that be for only one group of tout who be permit to list ten of thousand of ticket , no question ask . I fear that this dirty money be now be use to fuel a huge lobbying and public relation campaign that , I have to say , appear to have work on some Government Ministers and some adviser . when they champion Viagogo ' s rip - off business model at the Dispatch Box , they be regurgitate at length its bogus evidence and unsubstantiated claim about the impact of our current pro - consumer legislation , which , as I have already say , be just not adequate . from the few convict tout alone , the secondary ticketing market be receive potentially ten of million of pound in — it have to be say — the proceed of crime . Viagogo ' s boss , who have no - show multiple time at parliamentary inquiry , decline to answer whether Viagogo may have benefit , inadvertently or not , from the proceed of those crime , when ask in an interview recently by Rob Davies of the Guardian . have amendment 104 , with its five uncontroversial measure , be in place at the time , it be unlikely that these crime would have be commit in the first place . three thing would have occur . first , the tout would have be allow to re - sell only the same number of ticket they could buy in the primary market . secondly , the secondary platform operator , Viagogo and Ticketmaster , would have need to check the receipt of those ticket . thirdly , ticket buyer would have be provide with far clear information about who they be buy from , and would have likely reconsider . this past weekend , I be also make aware , again from the article in the Guardian by Rob Davies , which my hon . friend the Member for Worsley and Eccles South also refer to , that Viagogo be list 100 seat at Wembley for England ' s 7 June friendly against Iceland . I remind the House that the resale of football ticket without permission from club or football governing body have be illegal in England and Wales since 1994 . Viagogo have be ask how many football ticket it have sell over the year — not just recently , through what it call human error — how much it have make from such sale and whether it would donate that income to grassroots football charity . its answer ? silence . the Government must be under no illusion : this be a thriving online black market that be scamme hard - work family . with the cost of live crisis ongoing , it be heartbreaking to see live event add to the pile of small luxury be take away by parasitic tout and Government inaction . in a few week ' time , fan will be gather for Taylor Swift ' s first UK performance . I do not know whether any colleague be go to see Taylor Swift , but the first concert be on 7 June in Edinburgh . I have already hear of single seat , with average to poor view , go on sale for up to £ 600 on secondary website — many time their face value — and seat next to each other for upwards of £ 1 , 000 each . while this will be an amazing night for many — I be sure that the Minister and his family will enjoy it — as will all the night that follow , I have hear from industry specialist that they expect dozen of fan at each gig , perhaps more , to be heartbroken when they be turn away with invalid ticket buy from site such as Viagogo . many venue have now have to set up special service to deal with these victim of fake or invalid ticket buy online , because they know that it be go to happen . lot of fan will already have shell out hundred of pound for travel and accommodation , and some may not even receive a refund for their ticket , despite Viagogo ' s so - call guarantee . this be the focus of the " Watchdog " section of the BBC ' s " the One Show " recently , which I share with the Minister just last week — I hope he have time to watch it . it be still not too late to fix this broken market , and I implore the Government to support the revise Lords amendment 104b . the Minister could change his mind when he get to his foot . in addition , despite the overwhelming evidence and the already damn finding of the excellent independent review produce by Professor Michael Waterson in 2016 follow the enactment of the Consumer Rights Act 2015 , Lords amendment 104b endorse yet another review of the secondary ticketing market , which the Government have previously call for , while maintain some of the problem that Lords amendment 104 would have fix . the hon . Lady have touch on the industrial scale of this practice , and we have hear about tout outside venue . family may be think of buy ticket , and commit themselves to travel and spend money on hotel , and that be what be wrong . if that happen again , the Government should face those family and explain why it have happen . that be a very good point . as much as none of we want to see any unhappy , devastated fan at any of these venue , we will probably have to face those image , in the email from those fan , on our television screen and maybe on the front page of newspaper . we have to be prepare for that , and I be sure that the Minister would be sad to see it . if the Government be truly committed to another review , I know that Lord Moynihan — as we have hear , a highly respect conservative Lord and a former Minister — have already be recommend to they as a possible chair . [ interruption . ] I hope that the hon . member for Shipley be agree with I . I hope he agree that that would be a very fair and pragmatic selection . it be one that I would wholeheartedly support . I will conclude . on two occasion the Lords , have listen to evidence and the state view of the CMA , have vote through these amendment , but Ministers seem hellbent on ignore the view of the other place . the Lords have send a clear message to the Government , ask they to look at the fact and think again . I ask the Minister once again : will he finally side with fan , artist and athlete , support Lords amendment 104B today , and not let this be another opportunity waste by the Conservative Government ? as I say in our last debate on this matter , they should either start put fan first , or move aside so that we can . with the leave of the House , Mr Deputy Speaker , I will address the point that have be raise during the debate . the hon . member for Rhondda ( Sir Chris Bryant ) present a cap on ticket price as his solution to this problem , but that fly in the face of the evidence give by the CMA in its report . it say that such a measure would not significantly diminish the incentive , and the misconduct would therefore continue . however , it be good to hear the hon . Gentleman finally admit that the market be a good thing — that , come from an Opposition Member , be a revelation . there be a common factor between what be say by the hon . Gentleman and what be say by the other contributor to the debate . he say , for instance , that face value be not make sufficiently clear on the various secondary site , but there be a key saying clearly what face value be on the first page of the Viagogo and StubHub website . all those point relate to one thing and one thing only , namely enforcement , because the requirement be there in the exist legislation . we be keen to bolster enforcement . he say that we be somehow kick and scream to do so with this amendment , despite the fact that this Government have unilaterally bring forward this legislation . part 3 offer huge new power that be not add through an amendment in the Commons or the Lords ; they be on the face of the Bill from day one . the Minister know that Taylor swift ticket be be sell . the organiser of those concert have say that ticket sell on unauthorised secondary ticket market be not valid . would he therefore encourage people to buy ticket only from authorised ticket vendor and not from those that be unauthorised , which include Viagogo ? I would certainly advise any consumer to comply with the rule set out by the primary market . it be quite clear that the primary market can do a lot more about restrict secondary sale , and we have be quote example of that today , include the way the Olympics be run , the way that football match be run and the way that Glastonbury be run . all those thing have very tight control on secondary market , which be in the gift of the primary market . the hon . member for Gordon ( Richard Thomson ) ask about resource , as do the hon . member for Na h - Eileanan an Iar ( Angus Brendan MacNeil ) . the CMA ' s budget be £ 122 million , so we feel that it have the necessary resource available to it . the fine and penalty can be keep by the CMA for its enforcement activity . the hon . member for Worsley and Eccles South ( Barbara Keeley ) and for Washington and Sunderland West ( Mrs Hodgson ) make similar point about the inappropriate resale of ticket — for England football match , for example — and refund that have not be process properly . only six people have be prosecute for abuse in this sector , and we want to see more . prosecution for the use of bot have not be bring forward , and the amendment allow the CMA to do that . all the concrete action that the hon . member for Worsley and Eccles South call for be about enforcement , not more regulation . I absolutely agree with that , and we want to ensure that there be more enforcement in this space . it be of paramount importance that we get this Bill on to the statute book so that it can start deliver for business and consumer as soon as possible . I thank all who have help to get to this place , include the Clerks , the official in the Department and the Bill team . I thank they for their hard work on this legislation , and I hope that all member will feel able to support our position . question put , that the amendment be make . diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Mhairi Black Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Ben Bradshaw Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Nick Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Douglas Chapman Bambos Charalambous Joanna Cherry Feryal Clark Daisy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Neil Coyle Angela Crawley Stella Creasy John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Rosie Duffield Angela Eagle Jonathan Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Natalie Elphicke Florence Eshalomi Chris Evans Marion Fellows Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Vicky Foxcroft Gill Furniss George Galloway Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Mark Hendrick Drew Hendry Wera Hobhouse Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins George Howarth Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Gen Kitchen David Lammy Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood David Linden Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Conor McGinn Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Carol Monaghan Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Gavin Newlands John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kirsten Oswald Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Yasmin Qureshi Christina Rees Rachel Reeves Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Tommy Sheppard Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Alison Thewliss Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Richard Thomson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Karl Turner Liz Twist Valerie Vaz christian Wakeford Chris Webb Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Beth Winter Mohammad Yasin Mary Glindon Tonia Antoniazzi Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Gregory Campbell Andy Carter Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Rehman Chishti Jo Churchill Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Flick Drummond David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood David Evennett Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon fall Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Liam Fox Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Mark Garnier Nick Gibb Jo Gideon Paul Girvan John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes James Heappey Gordon Henderson Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Andrew Lewer Julian Lewis Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Karl McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris James Morris Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Ian Paisley Jnr Priti Patel Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Tom Pursglove will Quince Dominic Raab Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Gavin Robinson Andrew Rosindell Dean Russell David Rutley Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Alok Sharma Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Elizabeth Truss Steve Tuckwell Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Matt Warman Suzanne Webb Heather Wheeler John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Joy Morrissey Mark Jenkinson the House divide : Ayes 217 , Noes 268 . question accordingly negative . main question put and agree to . resolve , that this House disagree with the Lords in their amendment and propose amendment ( a ) and ( b ) to the Bill in lieu of the Lords Amendment 104B . constitutional Law I beg to move , that the draft Scotland Act 1998 ( increase of Borrowing Limits ) Order 2024 , which be lay before this House on 17 April , be approve . I be grateful for the opportunity to debate this order , which be the result of collaborative work between the two government in Scotland and uphold the 2023 fiscal framework agreement . this order will increase the Scottish Government ' s cumulative capital and resource borrowing limit to reflect inflation . the order be make under section 67 and 67a of the Scotland Act 1998 , which set out the amount that can be borrow under section 66 . we be make this order with the Treasury ' s consent , as require in those section . Scotland Act order be a demonstration of devolution in action , and I be pleased to say that the Scotland Office have take through more than 250 order since devolution begin . the 2023 agreement set out that the annual limit for capital and resource borrowing will increase in line with the Office for Budget Responsibility ' s GDP deflator forecast at the time of the Scottish Government ' s draft budget . the United Kingdom Government agree , in the 2023 agreement , to amend the Scotland Act to increase these limit as necessary . what be the spending limit on the UK Government ? be it not the case that the UK Government have balance their book in only 11 year since 1945 , and have pay back only about 1 . 7 % to 2 % of the debt accrue , if that ? it be entirely erroneous to try to put shackle on the Scottish Government and what the Minister often call the most powerful devolve Parliament in the world . Scotland should be go in the same direction as any normal country , and towards independence . this Conservative Government have prudently manage this country ' s finance , unlike the Scottish Government , who continue to slash frontline public service across Scotland , despite a record - break block grant from the UK Government . those spending choice be , of course , make by the SNP , rather than the UK Government . this order will increase the resource - borrowing limit by £ 29 million , from £ 1 . 75 billion to £ 1 . 78 billion , and the capital - borrowing limit by £ 50 million , from £ 3 billion to £ 3 . 05 billion . the exact figure be set out in the order we be consider . the timing of this order give the Scottish Government certainty over the cumulative borrowing limit for the 2024 - 25 financial year . it be important to note , however , that the Scottish Government still remain accountable to the Scottish Parliament and the people of Scotland in how they choose to use these increase borrowing power . be it not a fact that have the recent blood scandal happen only in Scotland , the Scottish Government would not have have the mean to do anything that might be ask of they , because of all these spending restriction and the handcuff put on they by Westminster ? be these real - world event not another reason that the Scottish Government should not be a hostage of the UK Government , as they or any Scottish Government be under the devolve set - up ? the hon . Member and his hon . friend on the nationalist Benches continue to obsess about independence , but he seem to forget that the people of Scotland have their say back in 2014 and vote in record number to remain part of a strong United Kingdom . I suggest that SNP Members focus on deliver for frontline service in Scotland by support our NHS , school and transport network and get on with the day job of govern Scotland , rather than talk perpetually about referendum and independence . in summary , the order amend UK legislation to increase the cumulative borrowing limit of the Scottish Government ahead of the next financial year . in do so , the UK Government uphold their commitment to the 2023 agreement and deliver for the people of Scotland . it be positive to see both government work together . on that note , I commend the order to the House . the fact that we be consider this statutory instrument on the Floor of the House , when such instrument be normally do in Committee , demonstrate that the Government have absolutely nothing leave to bring to the Chamber . in fact , this debate be schedule for a Committee Room upstairs but be subsequently cancel and bring to the Floor of the House . it show that the Government be desperate to try to fill time in this Chamber rather than send we all away early again . I know I speak for the Opposition and million of people up and down the country when I say that this nonsense have to end : a general election must be call soon on this zombie Government . they may be able to run for now , but they certainly can not hide . the people be feed up of 14 year of complete failure . we be here to consider increase borrowing limit for the Scottish Government . I wonder whether the Minister could answer a few question . as per the August 2023 fiscal framework agreement , which come two year late , can the Minister tell the House how the increase amount have be calculate ? secondly , the fiscal framework allow for £ 3 billion , and slightly more give this order of debt for capital purpose at £ 450 million a year . how much of that just over £ 3 billion have be draw down to this stage ? thirdly , the resource - borrow power can be draw down by up to £ 600 million per annum up to a maximum of just over £ 1 . 75 billion . how much of that have be draw down ? the reason I ask that latter question be that at the Finance and Public Administration Committee of the Scottish Parliament this morning , the permanent secretary warn the First Minister that there be a loom £ 1 . 9 billion fiscal deficit in the Scottish Government , because of spending promise that have be make by the current Scottish Government , and that the First Minister will have to come to Parliament regard the redrawing of those priority to try to reduce that £ 1 . 9 billion fiscal deficit . do the hon . Member agree that , notwithstanding the fact that the fiscal framework have bring the two government to the table , the problem we be see with spending and the constant argument be not in the good interest of the people of Scotland ? what they really need be two government who work more closely together and in concert for Scotland . I could not agree more . if the Prime Minister wish to go and see his Majesty the King at some point soon , we might get at least one half of those two government work together after the general election . what do he and the hon . member for Edinburgh West ( Christine Jardine ) have against the Republic of Ireland ? it have one Government , which be do very well and have a budget surplus , unlike the UK that have the mishmash and a mess , with a Scotland underperforming in the UK and look at an Ireland that be overperforme have leave the UK . there be lesson to be learn for himself and other colleague . there be certainly lesson to be learn for the UK : not to have a Tory Government . if we have a Labour Government , thing would be in a much well position . I be sure the hon . Gentleman will be encourage all his constituent to vote labour at the general election in order to make that change . my fourth question to the Minister be that the fiscal framework of August 2023 suggest that these figure will be increase by inflation from 2024 - 25 onwards . will the Minister confirm that be correct ? what inflationary measure will be use to do that ? every household in Scotland , and up and down the UK , know the impact the current Government have have on borrow overall . crash the economy and treble the national debt have have consequence for everyone . the interest payment on Government debt alone as a share of the economy be now the high since in early 1950 . thank to the former Prime Minister ' s disastrous premiership , interest rate that homeowner be now pay have go through the roof , take away home ownership for many in this country . we be in the midst of a cost of living crisis that be make in Downing Street but be be pay for by work people all over the country . if it be possible to sum up this dreadful Government in one individual ' s action and behaviour , it be the crashing of the economy , accompany by the high tax burden on work people in 70 year , and the large fall in living standard since record begin in the 1950 . they be reckless , incompetent and unapologetic for the chaos they have work across the country . but the Government seem to want to go far . they have look at the former Prime Minister ' s chaos inflict on the country by the £ 45 billion unfunded tax cut for the rich , and decide to trump that with a £ 46 billion unfunded tax cut to scrap national insurance , but will not tell we how they will pay for it . [ interruption . ] there be chuntere from the Treasury Bench . instead of chuntering , perhaps they will tell we how they will pay for that £ 46 billion unfunded commitment . when the Minister respond , will he take the opportunity of this rare occasion of a scottish statutory instrument be discuss on the Floor of the House to answer my fifth question , about where the money for the £ 46 billion unfunded commitment will come from ? we have have three fail Prime Ministers in the UK over as many year , an embarrassing statistic the SNP could not help but match , with three First Ministers in Scotland in as many year . they have bring back former leader to take charge , although the party in government in this Parliament have not do that for the top job , or certainly not for now anyway . Scotland be govern by a man who be responsible for many of the problem we face in the first place — he will have to take charge of these borrowing requirement — the Education Secretary who wreck our education system , the Finance Secretary who decimate local government finance and the leader who lead they to their bad ever election result . I be very much enjoy the hon . Gentleman ' s joust , although I suspect he will have to wait quite a while before he get to do it again for real in the general election , but will he be support that statutory instrument today ? yes , we will be support the statutory instrument , but it be worth put it into the context of where these borrowing power will have to be spend and the requirement of that . I know the hon . Gentleman would hardly wish to defend the Scottish Government ' s record on spending ; member on the Opposition Benches certainly will not do that . what be happen in Scotland because of have two bad government need to be completely expose — [ interruption . ] oh , SNP Members be awake . we be awake all right . the hon . Gentleman be make we nod off . as we look towards a general election and the almost certain prospect of a Labour Government , with Labour Members switch place with those now on the Government Benches , would the hon . member for Edinburgh South ( Ian Murray ) be prepared to commit a Labour Government to restore the scottish block grant ? I would commit the Labour Government to the fiscal framework agreement that have already be put in place . it be negotiate and agree in August 2023 , and lay out the fiscal framework for the year ahead . when Labour member move from the Opposition to the Government Benches come the general election , I be not sure if the hon . member for Inverclyde ( Ronnie Cowan ) will be still be in his place . we have have 14 year of conservative failure in this place and 17 year of SNP failure in Scotland too . that be the context in which these order come forward . there be an enormous black hole in Scotland ' s public finance , while one in six scot be on NHS waiting list . real earning in Scotland today be low than they be in 2007 . the only response to this crisis from either Government have be to increase taxis . I wonder whether the hon . Member agree with his shadow Health Secretary who say at the weekend that , right across the UK , every part of the NHS be in crisis . all road lead back to Westminster , because , even though this be a devolved matter , decision take in Westminster have an impact on the NHS across the whole country . the conclusion be that all road must lead to a Labour Government to resolve the issue . that be where we end up . the only response to this crisis from either Government have be to increase taxis . [ interruption . ] those on the Treasury Bench be still chuntere . I wonder whether they can still chunter about where the £ 46 billion unfunded spending commitment be go to come from . those on the Treasury Bench have preside over the high tax burden on work people in 70 year , and the SNP go even far , with any Scot earn over £ 28 , 500 a year pay more tax than anywhere else in the UK — that be nurse , teacher , police officer , firefighter and council worker all pay for their Government ' s incompetence . will the hon . member give way ? I be happy to give way one last time . the hon . Gentleman early mention the previous Prime Minister and the high interest rate in the sterling zone . will he apologise for buddye up with the Tories in 2014 , wear his Union Jack jacket , say that Scotland should stick with the Tory Government , stick with the risk of a Prime Minister do what she do , and stick with the risk of a currency zone that have hammer people ' s mortgage and hammer people ' s standard of living . he can apologise from the Dispatch Box if he want . Mr Deputy Speaker , I be so look forward to the hon . Gentleman bring forward yet another financial perspective to what independence would look like , but it would absolutely trash our economy and make what be currently go on look like a picnic in the park . he can not answer any of the basic question about how that would work . at the same time as hammer work people in Scotland with tax increase , the SNP have u - turn on its u - turn and , again , will not take any more money from the oil and gas giant ' excess profit , but will , instead , take more money from our nurse in income tax . work people be pay the price and get less . the truth be that this motion today be not what the people of Scotland and the UK be call out for ; they be speak with clarity that they want change — change from a cruel and fail Conservative Government and change from a tired and fail SNP Administration . they want change . let we get this general election and deliver that change . I must start by reflect how glad I be to see that this topic have captivate the imagination of the House with the participation here today . let I start by agree with the shadow Secretary of State on one point : if anything reflect the zombie nature of this Parliament , it be the fact that we be spend 90 minute on the Floor of the House discuss something that usually would be decide by 12 people in the attic and , at well , go to a deferred division . clearly , the Government be very thin when it come to stuff to put before the House , but give that this measure be here , I be happy to debate it . let I also say that there have be suggestion that there be nothing to see here — that all that be happen be a statutory instrument to give effect to an agreement that have be reach between the Scottish and UK government . that be not quite the case , though , be it ? of course , official in both government have work out agreement on how thing should be calculate — how inflation and various other factor should be determine — and it be good to see that official in both government be singe from a common hymn sheet when it get to analyse the situation before they . but that be not to pretend that the quantum of money involve be the subject of consensus or agreement . I would have think that even Scottish Ministers would be a little concerned to suggest that this be an inflation - relate increase in borrowing limit . the increase be 1 . 6 % over seven year , for money that mainly go to the construction industry where we have be look at 40 % or 50 % inflation over the same period . I do not even know how they can keep a straight face in describe this as an inflation - rate increase . the truth be that these borrowing limit be not a matter of negotiation between the Scottish and UK government . they be not subject to a legislative consent motion ; they be something that be determine by the UK Treasury , and that be the statutory position . this UK Treasury have determine what the figure be , and , to be frank , it have the Scottish Government over a barrel because the only option be to agree to this propose increase , or to get no increase at all . the Government have we over the same barrel , because we either agree to this 1 . 6 % increase , or the status quo ante will prevail and there will be no increase at all . far to the point make by the hon . member for Glasgow North ( Patrick Grady ) about the shadow Health Secretary point out that all road lead to Westminster , and that the spending constraint and austerity that have be choose be foist upon everybody , it be a ridiculous situation , surely , when Scotland ' s hand be tie like no other country in Europe . Spain do not decide its priority for health spending base on what France be spend , so why should Scotland or Wales do similarly ? why also do the Barnett consequential stem from only one of the nation of the UK ? Wales probably have the great health need , but we do not see money for England as a consequence of Welsh need or scottish need . why do it all stem from the one part ? that be something those of the Tory - Labour " well together " agenda have never address : the imbalance of the UK , with one partner in the lead and the rest have to follow with the choice they make for we . that intervention be long than many speech I have give here . I think I agree with the sentiment express by the hon . Gentleman . to come back to the discussion on capital borrowing requirement , the other important point that must surely be make , which reflect what he say about who be responsible , be that there be context . that context be a 16 % cut — 16 . 1 % , to be exact — in the block grant available for capital funding of public service in Scotland . that be not my figure ; it be provide by the House of Commons Library in an analysis do on figure provide by the Treasury . that be the real - term cut that central Government be make , and it mean that the borrowing limit available to the Scottish Government have then to be use to compensate for those cut and to mitigate their effect . there have be discussion about how these borrowing limit come about as a result of the Smith commission proposal , but this order be in direct contravention of the spirit of the Smith commission . the proposal from the Smith commission be not that UK capital spending that take place in Scotland should be devolve to the Scottish Government and the Scottish Government should take control of it . that be not the proposal ; I might have consider that and support that , as somebody who support full fiscal autonomy for the Scottish Government at the time , but that be not what we be discuss . the proposal that come from the Smith commission be for a supplemental capacity for the Scottish Government to borrow additional money to fund particular project and public service in Scotland if they have a mandate to do so . it be not mean to compensate for core capital funding . therefore , as the Scottish Government be now be force to do that , the cost of UK capital spending in Scotland be be incrementally transfer from the UK Exchequer to the Scottish Government . that , my friend , be a Union dividend in reverse . that be a Union penalty . that be the price we be have to pay for be part of these arrangement . my hon . friend be make some excellent point on the impact of the budget cut to capital funding . do he appreciate that for constituent of ours there be direct consequence of that , combine with the inflation we have see ? the rebuilding of the quay wall at Windmillcroft Quay in my constituency be now face real problem , because the shortfall in the project budget be in the region of £ 25 million as a result of the inflation in construction and other thing . when the capital grant get cut , there be no way of make that up . I agree with that . I be just come on to talk about the impact of these cut and the fact that , even with increase borrowing by the Scottish Government , we be still talk in overall term about a 9 % reduction in the capital budget in Scotland . a 9 % reduction mean that some big project be go to be delay and some be go to be shelve . People who be look for a new building or a new piece of infrastructure in their constituency should understand , when they be tell delay be go to take place , that those be a consequence of what we be decide here . of course , not all capital spending be to do with big , grandiose project ; a lot of capital spending be focus on improve the day - to - day operational delivery of public service , and therefore the consequence of cut and delay will have an impact on revenue budget as well . if we can not improve the energy efficiency of a particular building through capital improvement , it will cost more to run that building . if we have to provide temporary facility , that will cost more . there be a double whammy . not only be the capital budget have to be fund in part by a charge on the revenue budget to scottish taxpayer , because of the borrowing the Scottish Government undertake , but the revenue consequence elsewhere in operational budget will put they under considerable additional strain . will the hon . Gentleman give way again ? I will not , if the hon . Gentleman do not mind , because I be just about to — I will be brief ! really ? all right . the hon . Gentleman be make a good point on capital spending . the Scottish Government and a small scottish island can not build a replacement hospital at the moment because of those capital constraint . meanwhile , independent Ireland have so much money from its surplus that it be fund nurse and Erasmus student not just in its own territory , but in Northern Ireland , which be currently part of the UK . indeed . this be the final point that I want to make . let we remember that when we talk about scottish Government borrowing — the entire thing that we be talk about here — it be borrow with the permission of , and guarantee by , the UK Treasury . it be not possible for the Scottish Government to do a deal with a private sector house builder and get some private finance to build more social housing as an additional project in Scotland . that be not possible unless it be agree to by the UK Treasury and come within these limit , so the Scottish Government , who be herald as the most powerful devolve regional Government in the world , do not have the financial capital power that even a medium - sized business have to manage its own affair . that be why , in the end , the argument should really be for a Government in Scotland who have the capacity to make decision about capital spending and other aspect of our finance base upon the need and requirement of the people of Scotland , rather than the need and requirement of mandarin in the Treasury in Whitehall . that be why we should have independence for Scotland . I be grateful to hon . member for their important contribution to the debate . a number of member express surprise that we be have this debate . I be surprise by their shyness and reluctance to come to the mother of Parliaments to debate this important matter . we be here on behalf of our constituent to talk about how additional resource will be allocate to people in Scotland . we should all welcome that rather than be slightly uncertain about it . I be certainly relish the opportunity to talk from the Dispatch Box about the additional resource that the people of Scotland , include those in my constituency , will get . the Minister be talk about additional resource , but he can not deny that there have be massive inflation in construction cost as a result of Brexit , covid and his previous Prime Minister . in that spirit , will he address the problem that have be cause by his government , and will he commit to the extra £ 25 million need for Windmillcroft Quay , the Citizens Theatre and the Govanhill bath in Glasgow , which have all see huge inflation in construction cost ? I be grateful to the hon . member for make that point , and I will come to some of the allegation make about Scotland ' s budget shortly . the hon . member for Glasgow South make a number — [ hon . member : " Edinburgh South ! " ] my apology . the hon . member for Edinburgh South ( Ian Murray ) make a number of point about how annual limit be calculate . annual limit be calculate in accordance with the 2023 agreement and be base on the OBR ' s GDP deflator forecast at the time of the Scottish Government ' s draft budget . I can confirm that the GDP deflator use to calculate the new limit for this order be 1 . 677 % . let I respond to the other question ask by the hon . member for Edinburgh South . some £ 1 . 76 billion of the national loans fund long - term loan remain outstanding and count against the £ 3 billion statutory limit , include the £ 300 million borrow in March 2024 . I will write to he on his other point . he make a general point about the level of Government debt , but we should not forget that the reason we have such significant debt be the huge intervention that the Government make to support job and community during the pandemic . have we not make those intervention to support job , include in the hon . member ' s constituency of Edinburgh South , many people would be out of work and many more business would have struggle to survive the pandemic . if he and Labour Members be now say they be oppose to those intervention , I think our constituent would want an explanation of why they would not want a government to make those type of intervention to help during a pandemic . from my experience of my own constituency , I know that the furlough scheme , for example , and the huge amount of additional support that go in to support business be very much welcome , but Labour Members now seem to be oppose to those thing . the hon . member for Edinburgh East ( Tommy Sheppard ) suggest that this agreement have in some way be impose on the Scottish Government . that be just not the case : it be a great example of both government work together , both at an official level and at a ministerial level . again , the two government in Scotland work collaboratively to deliver for the betterment of our country be something that all of our constituent would expect to see , and would very much welcome . all I be try to establish be whether the UK Government be tell we that the quantum of these borrowing limit be to be agree between the UK Government and the Scottish Government , or whether in law , that figure be determine by the UK Treasury . which be it ? I could not be clear that this be an example of both government work together to agree what be in the good interest of Scotland . it be now for the Scottish Government to decide how they use those additional spending and borrowing power . a number of hon . member have suggest , both in speech and in intervention , that the UK Government have in some way cut the capital budget for Scotland . the SNP have cut its own budget by waste so much taxpayer ' money on fail project in Scotland . [ interruption . ] hon . member scoff from a sedentary position , but the SNP spend more on try and fail to build two ferry than it claim it would cost to set up a whole new state when it be propose an independent Scotland . they have also suggest that the UK Government have cut Scotland ' s overall budget , but Scotland ' s block grant be at a record high . however , the SNP Scottish Government have hugely cut local government funding , which be impact frontline service the length and breadth of Scotland — that be the cut that SNP Members should be talk about . a spokesman for the Convention of Scottish Local Authorities say that the SNP ' s last budget be " not a good budget for scottish local government " . I could happily put SNP Members in touch with that spokesperson , but I suspect that they be already in touch with that person , give that those be the word of an SNP councillor . even their own side be complain about the level of funding that the SNP be give to local council across Scotland . to conclude , this order demonstrate the continue commitment of this United Kingdom Government to work with the Scottish Government to deliver for the people of Scotland and maintain a function settlement for Scotland . on that basis , I commend it to the House . question put and agree to . resolve , that the draft Scotland Act 1998 ( increase of Borrowing Limits ) Order 2024 , which be lay before this House on 17 April , be approve . business of the House ( today ) order , that at this day ' s sit , the Speaker shall put the Questions necessary to dispose of proceeding on the Motion in the name of Secretary Mark Harper relate to the High Speed Rail ( Crewe - Manchester ) Bill : instruction ( no . 3 ) not later than 90 minute after the commencement of proceeding on the Motion for this order ; such question shall include the Questions on any Amendments select by the Speaker which may then be move ; proceeding on that Motion may continue , though oppose , after the moment of interruption ; and Standing Order No . 41a ( defer division ) shall not apply . — ( Penny Mordaunt . ) High Speed Rail ( Crewe - Manchester ) Bill ( Instruction ) ( no . 3 ) I inform the House that Mr Speaker have select amendment ( a ) , ( b ) , ( c ) and ( d ) as list on the Order Paper . I will call the hon . member for Stoke - on - Trent South to move his amendment formally at the end of the debate . I beg to move , that it be an instruction to the Select Committee to which the High Speed Rail ( Crewe - Manchester ) Bill be commit to deal with the Bill as follow : ( 1 ) the Committee shall , before conclude its proceeding , amend the Bill by — ( a ) leave out provision relate to a railway between a junction with phase 2a of High Speed 2 south of Crewe in Cheshire and a point in the vicinity of the parish of Millington and Rostherne in Cheshire , ( b ) leave out provision relate to a railway between Hoo Green in Cheshire and a junction with the West Coast Main Line at Bamfurlong , south of Wigan , and ( c ) make such amendment to the Bill as it think fit in consequence of the amendment make by virtue of sub - paragraph ( a ) and ( b ) . ( 2 ) the Committee shall not hear any petition to the extent that it — ( a ) relate to whether or not there should be — ( i ) a railway between a junction with phase 2a of High Speed 2 south of Crewe in Cheshire and a point in the vicinity of the parish of Millington and Rostherne in Cheshire , or ( ii ) a railway between Hoo Green in Cheshire and a junction with the West Coast Main Line at Bamfurlong , south of Wigan , or ( b ) otherwise relate to a railway mention in sub - paragraph ( a ) . ( 3 ) the Committee shall treat the principle of the Bill , as determine by the House on the Bill ' s Second Reading , as comprise the matter mention in paragraph ( 4 ) ; and those matter shall accordingly not be at issue during proceeding of the Committee . ( 4 ) the matter refer to in paragraph ( 3 ) be — ( a ) the provision of a high speed railway between a point in the vicinity of the parish of Millington and Rostherne in Cheshire and Manchester Piccadilly Station , ( b ) in relation to the railway mention in sub - paragraph ( a ) as set out on the plan deposit in January 2022 in connection with the Bill in the office of the Clerk of the Parliaments and the Private Bill Office of the House of Commons , its broad route alignment , and ( c ) the fact that there be to be no new station ( other than Manchester Piccadilly and Manchester Airport ) on the railway mention in sub - paragraph ( a ) . ( 5 ) the Committee shall have power to consider any amendment propose by the member in charge of the Bill which , if the Bill be a private bill , could not be make except upon petition for additional provision . ( 6 ) paragraph ( 5 ) apply only so far as the amendment propose by the member in charge of the Bill fall within the principle of the Bill as provide for by paragraph ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) above . that these order be Standing Orders of the House . that the Order of 20 June 2022 ( High Speed Rail ( Crewe - Manchester ) Bill : instruction ( no . 2 ) ) be rescind . with this it will be convenient to discuss : Amendment ( a ) , in paragraph ( 1 ) ( a ) , line 2 , leave out from " vicinity of " to end and insert — " chainage 281 + 350 in the parish of Millington and Rostherne in Cheshire , include all structure relate to a junction with the now cancel Phase 2b railway between this point and a junction with phase 2a of High Speed 2 south of Crewe , " . Amendment ( b ) , after paragraph ( 1 ) ( b ) insert — " ( ) leave out provision for the Ashley Infrastructure Maintenance Base - Rail , and " . amendment ( c ) , in paragraph ( 1 ) ( c ) , line 2 , leave out " and ( b ) " and insert " , ( b ) and ( ) " . amendment ( d ) , in paragraph ( 4 ) ( a ) , line 1 , leave out " high speed " . the motion instruct the High Speed Rail ( Crewe – Manchester ) Bill Select Committee to resume its work of scrutinise the Bill . to put it simply , the Bill be always go to cover the 15 mile that form the key backbone of Northern Powerhouse Rail , and the motion ask the Committee to continue its work of scrutinise the Bill to deliver this first section of the Liverpool to Manchester railway — the 15 - mile section between Manchester Piccadilly station and the parish of Millington and Rostherne in Cheshire . the motion also request that the Committee remove the section of railway south of Millington , which be only require to deliver the now cancel element of High Speed 2 . member and constituent who have express concern about the impact of this 15 - mile stretch of railway on their property and livelihood will be able to have their petition hear . it be therefore crucial that the Select Committee continue its work . turn to the detail , on 4 October 2023 the Government announce Network North , a transformative transport infrastructure plan that will see £ 36 billion invest in hundred of transport project across the country . every region be set to receive the same or more transport investment as they would have under previous plan in transport project — project that matter the most to community up and down the country . at the same time , the Government confirm an additional £ 12 billion of investment to enable Northern Powerhouse Rail to proceed to well connect Liverpool and Manchester . the change before the House be a crucial part of the Government ' s Network North strategy , allow we to invest the money put aside for hs2 in project that will transform transport within the region . specifically on Northern Powerhouse Rail , this allow we to deliver it in full , bring in Bradford and Hull . Network North will radically improve travel between and within our city and town and around the local area , benefit more people , in more place and more quickly than in previous plan . I would like to take this opportunity to thank all the member of the Select Committee for their hard work up to this point . it be no small task that have be put before they , and they have all work with a vigour that be to be admire , even if some of the work have to be pause while the Government refocus this agenda . as be well know , I have be oppose to the HS2 project since its inception , which go back about 10 year or so . the Minister be give we a bit of a eulogy about what be be do , and I be very glad that HS2 have be substantially change and will not go beyond Birmingham . the question I put to the Minister be this : be an instruction the right way to go ? do so in effect bypass the Standing Orders , and it put my constituent and those of my right hon . friend the Member for South Staffordshire ( Sir Gavin Williamson ) and my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent South ( Jack Brereton ) in an invidious position , to say the very least . I will come on to that later , if I may , but will he answer my question , please ? I have not really start the eulogy yet , but I do believe this be the right vehicle . the Select Committee on the Bill have already be set up , and it be set up to look at not just HS2 phase 2b , but Northern Powerhouse Rail . it be always on that basis that it be form , so it make sense to repurpose the Committee to allow it to continue to work on the one aspect that continue , and to take out the other aspect of HS2 phase 2b , which of course be no long continue . I also want to mention my hon . friend the Member for Brigg and Goole ( Andrew Percy ) , who have be a diligent , conscientious and highly effective Committee Chair over the past year and a half . I know he will be look forward to get back to the task , as will the other Committee member . my hon . friend raise an important point in say that we should repurpose the Committee . however , the amount of spend for Northern Powerhouse Rail be potentially quite different from what be agree before , and he be almost deprive the House of the ability to have a proper view of it and to decide how much money be spend on the project . my right hon . friend obviously believe the point he make , but almost two year ago — I think it be back in June 2022 — after Second Reading , this House pass the motion that have allow the Select Committee to sit , and its remit be to look at phase 2b and also Northern Powerhouse Rail . by definition , we be look to strip out the element that be no long relevant because HS2 phase 2b be not go ahead , but in my view the Committee should continue to sit to consider the part that be still go ahead . I thank my hon . friend for be so generous in give way . there be potentially a significant difference in cost , and in term of the impact on community . by take this process and railroad it through — excuse the pun — the Minister be not give the House a proper opportunity to discuss the detail and make a decision on it , unless he accept that there will be no difference in cost between the two proposal . the route select as the preferred route , which the Bill Committee be task with hear petition on , remain exactly the same route as be previously identify . with respect , I contend that the Committee have already start its journey . it have already receive petition from those who feel they be affect by this issue , and I contend that that be the right vehicle . I have say warm word about the Committee ' s Chair , and as I see the hon . member for Easington ( Grahame Morris ) in his place , I also put on the record my thank for his hard and heroic work . the question the Minister refer to be one of additional provision . the real question — this be a technical question and not good for an intervention — and the bottom line be that additional provision can be petition against . the manner in which the motion be construct will effectively greatly inhibit , and / or completely prevent , additional provision from be pursue by petitioner , both in the constituency affect by the Bill , and also for my constituent , who be affect by the fact that the two section , from Birmingham to Crewe and from Crewe to Manchester , be interconnect . there be a vast amount of concern in my constituency about this issue . to be clear , I give a commitment that HS2 will not be go through my hon . friend ' s constituency , and therefore any petition that be go to be relevant should lapse . this be a matter for the Bill Committee , but that would be the logical extension . any petition already make on this 15 - mile stretch , which will continue to be within the remit because it continue to be the preferred route , will be hear by the Committee if this motion be pass . if there be amendment , such as from an environmental statement or any that I may propose , that reopen the window for petition . on that basis , if there be anything new a petition can be make , but if there be not , the petition should already be in . I feel that be the right outcome . I shall make some more progress . as my right hon . friend the Member for Aldridge - Brownhills ( Wendy Morton ) make clear on Second Reading , and as I have mention , part of the Bill ' s original purpose be always to deliver this section of Northern Powerhouse Rail , the first half of the line between Manchester and Liverpool . follow today ' s motion , the Committee will be able to go back to consider petition from people and organisation still affect by the scheme . the Committee will also assess any change to the Bill that I may bring forward to adapt it to deliver Northern Powerhouse Rail . the propose change to the Bill will , quite rightly , prompt a new environmental assessment that will consider how any new element in the scheme will affect local area . where possible , I will use this as an opportunity to far reduce the construction impact on community , and the change will be provide to the House in the usual way . although this be a rather technical motion , hold this debate demonstrate good progress in develop the Government ' s long - hold ambition to improve connectivity between Liverpool and Manchester . can the Minister tell the House when Northern Powerhouse Rail will be complete ? I can not give the hon . Gentleman an exact and firm date , but I be seek to put the Bill Committee back on track , rather than restart the entire process — something that have be champion and support by the Mayors of Manchester and Liverpool , and other . by its very definition we will be look to deliver the Bill back , so that we can crack on and give the hon . Gentleman an early date than he may perhaps believe will be the case . since the Network North announcement , we have be engage local leader and mps about the form the connection between Liverpool and Manchester will take , and we have hold many discussion with local leader to establish what their community want from such a link . alongside that , we must ensure that the option be consider represent the well possible use of the £ 12 billion funding available . on 25 March I be able to deposit a write statement in this place on the outcome of those discussion . we have hear clear support for a railway with stop at Liverpool , Warrington Bank Quay , Manchester airport and Manchester Piccadilly . local leader also support the plan that the new railway should follow the broad alignment set out in the 2021 integrate rail plan . the section of railway that we be discuss today be part of the plan ' s large Northern Powerhouse Rail network . we will improve connection on both side of the Pennines , both by build new line and by upgrade exist one . train on this line will go past Manchester and on to York via Leeds . we will also upgrade the exist railway between Leeds and Bradford to reduce journey time and increase capacity between those destination . station will also be upgrade and make more accessible . the environmental impact of the network will be reduce by further electrification . with this plan , town and city across the whole of the north will benefit from direct service to Manchester airport . passenger travel to the airport from Liverpool could see their journey slash by almost an hour , while passenger from Leeds could benefit from a 41 - minute reduction . the new station at Manchester airport will unlock the potential to far promote the international airport , act as a catalyst for growth across the north - west . that be just one of the benefit that Network North — our new long - term plan for transport — will deliver . we be refocus on the journey that really matter to people , connect town , city and rural community in all region of the country . every penny of the £ 19 . 8 billion commit to the northern leg of HS2 will be reinveste in the north . every penny of the £ 9 . 6 billion commit to the midland leg will be reinveste in the midland . Bradford will get a brand - new station and connection , reduce journey time from Manchester from 56 minute to 30 minute . as the Minister know , the commitment for Birmingham to Manchester be in three conservative manifesto . what he be now announce be controversial and break with the tradition of cross - party agreement that we have see up to now . the offering in term of east - west connectivity be laudable , but the fact that we can not get a direct link and increase capacity — it be not just about speed — from Birmingham through to Manchester will affect the whole of the north - west and stop much of the wealth in the south from get far north because of decrease business activity . I take the hon . member ' s point . it come down to choice , and the choice as lead by the Prime Minister be to cancel the stage of HS2 north of Handsacre and dedicate those money to other part of the north and midland in particular to connect those city , which would not have see a direct benefit from HS2 . as an example , let we take Bradford , a city that feel sore that it have miss out from the integrated rail plan . that decision provide £ 2 billion for a new station for Bradford . the concern that Bradford would have have be that , as thing have stand , it may have see business relocate away to , say , Manchester , because not only be it not receive anything , but Manchester be receive a lot . ultimately , it come down to choice . rise — I will give way one last time . I take the point that the Minister be make — it be an improvement for Bradford — but hs2 would also have go on another spur up from Birmingham to Leeds . improve connectivity between Leeds and Bradford , which be not far , plus the station improvement , would have be far more beneficial than what he be propose . we have commit to deliver a fast route between Leeds and Bradford that will bring the journey time down to 13 minute ; that commitment be there . look , it come down to choice , and we have be quite clear with our choice , which be to repurpose the money from HS2 . I believe that Labour ' s position be to do likewise , because the Leader of the Opposition go to Manchester and make the same point that the line would not be recommit . the key point be this : be the Labour party commit to repurpose for those Bradford project ? I be sure that we will hear from its Front Bench spokesperson . will the Minister give way ? I will not give way again ; I will finish so that other can speak . we will be upgrade the connection between Manchester and Sheffield , between Leeds and Sheffield , between Leeds and Hull , and between Hull and Sheffield . we will reopen several of the line close more than 60 year ago by Dr Beeching , reconnecte area such as County Durham , Burton , Stocksbridge and Waverley . we will halve the time that it take to travel between Nottingham and Leeds by upgrade the track between Newark and Nottingham . we will increase our investment in the midland rail hub to £ 1 . 75 billion , well connect more than 50 station , and we will improve journey time from north Wales to England , bring part of north Wales within an hour of Manchester by electrify the north Wales main line . Network North be vital to our plan to level up the economy . it will connect labour market across the north , expand where people can work and where company can recruit from . it will make it easy to deliver good to market and shorten supply chain in region , grow the local economy . instead of drag investment towards London , we will contribute towards growth everywhere in the country . as I say , although the motion be technical , this be still an exciting day for the north . we be take a step towards provide the kind of infrastructure that people really want , connect the great city of Manchester and Liverpool , and make it easy to move around , work and invest in the region . I commend the motion to the House . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker , for outline the detail of this motion . I thank all member of the Select Committee for their work to date on the Bill , and all hon . member who be contribute to this debate . labour will back this motion because after year of delay by this government , we back progress on finally deliver Northern Powerhouse Rail — even the limited progress that this motion appear to bring . I say " finally " because the Government first promise Northern Powerhouse Rail over a decade ago . it have be in three consecutive conservative manifesto yet have not be deliver . plan have be continuously chop , change and scale back . the impact of that dither and delay be become painfully clear . just last week , the Government ' s own infrastructure adviser , Sir John Armitt , warn that the Conservatives ' failure to boost rail capacity in the north risk undermine levelling up and constrain economic growth . Sir John point out that the UK be the only country in Europe where productivity be below the national average in the second and third big city . what a damn indictment , after 14 year of conservative chaos . after more than a decade of stagnation , the window be close in which to deliver the transport infrastructure that our country need to make people ' s live well , boost growth and reach net zero . because of the fiasco that the Government have make of the now staggeringly expensive High Speed 2 project , poor connectivity , high congestion and low capacity will continue to hold back the midland and the north . it be therefore vital that today ' s motion do not unintentionally restrict any future plan to address rail capacity between Birmingham and Manchester . as we know , under the sponsorship of the Mayor of Greater Manchester and the former Mayor of the West Midlands , work have start with private partner to find a new solution to the capacity issue between Birmingham and Manchester cause by this Government ' s mishandle of hs2 . however , the detailed final plan have not yet be present to the Government , and no public decision have be make by minister on whether to support the finding . I hope that the Minister can assure the House that today ' s motion will not result in the proposal from that review be hamper or prejudge , or bind the hand of the working group before the consortium make its full recommendation . as we know , the Government do not consult local leader or expert when they cook up their error - ridden Network North plan . the shamble that we have see play out since be an inevitable result . it be vital that minister learn from these glare mistake and do not fall into the same trap again . I hope that the Minister will make it clear that today ' s motion be no substitute for a serious , detailed delivery plan for Northern Powerhouse Rail , or the credible and transformative programme of transport infrastructure investment that the north and midland need and deserve . the Government ' s current approach of develop small section of project that be ignorant of each other be neither coherent nor sufficient . as a result , it remain unclear how the Government plan to achieve their suppose objective of level up all part of the north . as state , after year of delay , it be vital that we finally begin to make progress on Northern Powerhouse Rail , no matter how limited that progress might be , which be why we will support the motion today . let I emphasise again that the progress must be make in partnership with local leader , and that piecemeal announcement should not be see as a substitute for a credible plan for Northern Powerhouse Rail , which be desperately need if we be to deliver for the north . I hope that the Minister have take those comment on board . I look forward to hear his response to my point and those raise by other in the debate . I must say that the motion before the House be quite bizarre . now that the hybrid hs2 Bill have be adapt to supposedly deliver Northern Powerhouse Rail , we be ask the Select Committee on the High Speed Rail ( Crewe – Manchester ) Bill to agree a Bill for a railway that end in a field , with no connection to the rest of the rail network . this be effectively a railway to nowhere . the motion and the adaption of the hybrid Bill will not facilitate a function railway until a connection be establish to the rail network at Latchford in Warrington . the Department for Transport be presume that the remainder of the line will be approve through a completely separate planning process , but do not say what that process be and when it will be bring forward . that be a massive departure from what be experience in phase 1 or even phase 2 , in which a whole corridor approach be consider , with clear connection possible , in each phase , to the exist network . it be totally flawed to segment NPR in the way propose , rather than look at the whole corridor , or even a whole phase or section . the proposal do not even properly consider what could be think of as the NPR core route . the House should not be ask to approve something that will not deliver a function piece of infrastructure . the instruction state : " the Committee shall , before conclude its proceeding , amend the Bill by — " and then set out certain arrangement relate to certain aspect of the railway . it then state : " make such amendment to the Bill as it think fit in consequence of the amendment make by virtue of " the previous sub - paragraph . the word " as it think fit " be an absolute carte blanche . if the railway end in a field , it be not a railway . that be just the starting point . have the examiner be ask to look at the Bill use the procedure for a hybrid Bill ? effectively , it will not be a Bill , when it have be treat in this way , if the instruction go through . should we not put forward petition , irrespective of the constraint impose by the instruction , to test just how much this be a matter of principle ? the Bill be also constrain by the fact that Second Reading be now effectively tear up , and a new principle be be insert into the Bill . I thank my hon . friend for those very thoughtful point . I entirely agree that the instruction be wide - ranging . it be concern to see those sort of power be put forward to the Committee . it really do show the abuse of the hybrid Bill process . if any service be to use the line , the railway would have to secure much wide enhancement and additional complex infrastructure , and there be no guarantee of that be deliver . as I say , the delivery of any service on this line will depend on permission be secure for the rest of the section , and that will be approve under a completely separate planning process . the approach be take really be totally back to front . as the hon . Gentleman know , I have a principled disagreement with he on HS2 , but I respect his position . he be make a powerful case for divide the House on this matter . will he divide the House on it ? we may come to that shortly , but I be very concerned about this . certainly , we may consider divide on the motion . we should focus first on properly understand the connectivity enhancement need , and then design the infrastructure to meet that need . instead , we already have the infrastructure design , and be try to make it fit with the improvement that we would like for connectivity across the north , because we do not want to spend time do this properly and restart the hybrid Bill process . it might have make sense to use the propose route when the track would be share with HS2 , but it do not make any sense now that phase 2 have go . it be neither the optimal route for benefit nor the most cost - effective to deliver . I be afraid that this really be an abuse of the hybrid Bill process . may I refer my hon . friend to paragraph 3 of the motion ? it state : " the Committee shall treat the principle of the Bill , as determine by the House on … Second reading , as comprise the matter mention in paragraph ( 4 ) ; and those matter shall accordingly not be at issue during proceeding of the Committee . " what the motion be actually say , surely , be that the principle of the Bill as originally pass will now be replace by a new principle , and that any petitioner or anyone else who get up to speak about it in any context will be tell , because of an instruction by the whole House on what I could describe as the misleading basis — I be not accuse the Minister of this ; I be merely comment on the wording of the motion — that the issue can not be put , and indeed be not to be regard as an issue . that be a contradiction of what be clearly go on . my hon . friend have make a powerful point . that , too , illustrate the failing of the hybrid Bill process . my hon . friend and I know about this all too well because of the abuse of the process that we have see in Staffordshire , which really have not guard against some of the issue and challenge to which people have be draw attention . it bring into question the fitness of the process in its entirety , and the way in which hybrid Bills have be enact . this Bill be design and set out to deliver phase 2b of HS2 . it be never about NPR alone , so its original objective be very different . to try to adapt the Bill in this way be totally flawed . it would not afford the due process that be require for the decision in question . I believe we should abandon this phase 2b Bill , and come back with a new hybrid Bill that will deliver NPR properly . we should look at the whole corridor between Liverpool and Manchester , and at area beyond , not just at the section in the middle , which do not go anywhere . we need a Bill that be capable of deliver the whole project . we can not just deliver a partial scheme , and expect it to magically result in capacity be release to enable the promise enhancement of service . there be constraint along the whole route . what about the complexity of cross the M56 , the M6 and the Manchester ship canal to connect with the rail network at Latchford , east of Warrington Bank Quay ? what about the enhancement that will be need between Warrington and Liverpool , include the upgrading of the Fiddlers Ferry line to facilitate service , and what about the capacity improvement that be need at Liverpool Lime Street station ? all these issue need far more detailed consideration and focus , as well as a proper process for approval — and we have not even mention how all this will be deliver within a tight £ 12 billion budget envelope ; it be more likely to cost more than £ 16 billion . as for the point raise by the hon . member for Preston ( Sir Mark Hendrick ) about connect with the west coast main line , I be afraid that that will not be possible because of the challenge present in the Warrington area ; the Arpley chord can not provide a connection with the west coast main line to serve west coast station north of Warrington . one might ask why we in Staffordshire be so interested in these matter . it be because we fear those who be seek to reignite phase 2 of HS2 and all the horror that it be set to wreak on our fine county . People in Stoke - on - Trent and Staffordshire have overwhelmingly welcome the Prime Minister ' s courageous and correct decision to scrap phase 2 . they want the £ 36 billion release to be spend on project that will truly deliver the improvement in local transport that will help to transform their life , and not on remote " white elephant " pet project . it be disappointing that the eagerness to progress the plan set out in the motion have not be mirror in the action to wind down site compound , fill in the thousand of borehole that have be leave , and return land to its rightful owner across the rest of the phase 2 route . little to no progress seem to have be make yet , and the significant cost continue to spiral , even though the project have be cancel . People in Staffordshire community such as Swynnerton and Yarnfield , in the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Stone ( Sir William Cash ) , be still fearful , give that they have not yet see any visible sign of unwind . motion like the one before we today do nothing to dispel those fear , and there be concern that some people would like nothing well than to see phase 2 restart . that be why I have table several probe amendment , because we need to know that all element relate purely to phase 2 will be remove . amendment ( a ) would leave out the provision relate to the entirety of phase 2b from the junction with phase 2a at Crewe to where it would have join the line to share track with NPR — importantly , include the stub and junction for where the line would join NPR , which would otherwise remain part of the design . clearly , follow the cancellation of phase 2 , the stub and junction be no long need , so they should be remove from the design . remove they would help to reassure that phase 2 could not be restart at a later stage . I thank my hon . friend for make such powerful point . do he hope that the Minister will come to the Dispatch Box and give he those reassurance — maybe right now ? absolutely . we need reassurance from the Minister to allay the many fear among our community throughout Staffordshire . amendment ( c ) be consequential on amendment ( b ) , and both relate to the " Ashley infrastructure maintenance base - rail " . this IMB - R be specifically design to service phase 2 of hs2 . give that phase 2 have be cancel and that the IMB - R will no long be require , NPR will be serve by other facility on the wide network . again , the removal of the facility would give much reassurance about the cancellation of HS2 phase 2 , and confirm that the project will not be bring back at some future point . amendment ( d ) would remove reference to " high speed " but retain the word " railway " . this would be an important change , give that the line will be a conventional railway , not high speed . the NPR route between Manchester and Liverpool can not and will not be high speed , because it be too short , at 67 km . it have two intervene station and involve the use of section with very sharp bend at Warrington and south of Liverpool , so it would be impossible for the route to be high speed . without phase 2 , it make no sense to design this short section to high - speed standard , which would end up be dramatically over - specify and incur huge additional and unnecessary cost — unless , of course , the intention be to reignite phase 2 . on NPR , I must make it clear that I fully support the intention to properly connect city and community across the north . I know the importance of improve rail connectivity for my own city of Stoke - on - Trent , and I have lead effort to reopen more of our local rail network . I be incredibly grateful for the Government ' s support for project such as reopen Meir station and the Stoke to Leek line , which be include as part of Network North . I know the transformative impact that improve such rail service can have on the opportunity available to our community . what have be set out today , however , will not deliver on the intention of Northern Powerhouse Rail and community in the north — it will not even come close . as the Minister and the Secretary of State will know , we have present the Department with far superior alternative , which should be give more serious consideration . the alternative upgrade proposal for the Chat Moss route would not only entail half the cost , but deliver far great benefit . upgrade the alternative route could deliver a short route between Manchester and Liverpool that be capable of deliver a 26 % quick journey time than be propose . that be 26 minute , as compare with the 35 minute in the proposal . additionally , due to the extreme complexity and over - engineering of part of the propose route , not only could our proposal be deliver eight to 10 year soon , mean that community across the north would feel the benefit far early , but our proposal would allow connectivity of the NPR core route to a far great range of destination throughout the north - west , include Preston , Wales and even into Scotland . it would also release the budget need to enable the delivery of the much - desire underground through - platform at Manchester Piccadilly , which would otherwise remain far beyond reach . to conclude , I hope that the Government will give far great consideration to how NPR can be deliver , which can mean great benefit and well value for money for the taxpayer . the proposal before we today do not do that . it be not even capable of deliver a functional piece of infrastructure . I strongly believe that the only way that can be achieve be through the introduction of a new hybrid Bill that be capable of properly deliver on the aspiration of Northern Powerhouse Rail and properly divorce the scheme from phase 2 of hs2 . it be essential that we see great clarity and reassurance of community throughout Staffordshire . most importantly , we must see far great urgency in progress the unwinding of phase 2 . I hope the Minister and the Department will take on board those concern and reflect they in the action we need to see . rise — Order . I just point out that there be a bit of interest here , and the debate must conclude by 6 . 13 pm . if member could focus on pithy speech , that would be useful for get in as many people as we can . I do not think I will detain the House long . I want to say two or three thing . the first be that there be an element of unreality about this debate , as there have be about many debate on Northern Powerhouse Rail and HS2 phase 2b . Mr Deputy Speaker , you may remember this as a northern MP — I be sure the Minister will remember it , too — but almost exactly 10 year ago , on 23 June , George Osborne as Chancellor of the Exchequer go to the Science and Industry Museum in Manchester and announce Northern Powerhouse Rail . since that time , the rail system across the north of England have have three name : it have be HS3 , Crossrail of the north , and Northern Powerhouse Rail . how much work have be do on it ? there have be no design work , no land purchase and no money dedicate to it . ten year later , we be here , and the Minister say , " we will crack on with it . " " crack on " , if I may say , after 10 year of complete inactivity when it be a Government commitment , be a rum old phrase to use for Northern Powerhouse Rail , if the Minister do not mind I say so . he have make a decent fist of a cackhande decision by the Government on HS2 and Northern Powerhouse Rail . at different time and for political reason and for other reason , people have counterpoise against each other the Crossrail of the north , or Northern Powerhouse Rail , or HS3 , against HS2 . that be a strange thing to do , because if we increase the capacity of the rail system with HS2 , those passenger have to have somewhere to go . the same apply if we increase the capacity , as I hope we do , with Northern Powerhouse Rail . if we have a good system go from Manchester to hull via Bradford and Leeds and York , those passenger have to go somewhere . if we have a new station at Manchester airport , we want people to come through it in great number , not just east - west but from the south as well . so that be a mistake , as have be point out by my hon . friend the Member for Portsmouth South ( Stephen Morgan ) . while I respect the hon . member for Stone ( Sir William Cash ) and for Stoke - on - Trent South ( Jack Brereton ) , they have be consistently oppose to HS2 for constituency reason and how they see the impact of hs2 on Stafford , for example . many of we on this side have see the economic and transport benefit of hs2 . what I do not accept at all be the Prime Minister , unselecte by his own party and unelecte by the people of the United Kingdom , turn up after manifesto commitment from both party — all three party , in fact , if we go back to the original decision in 2009 when all three party support hs2 — and say , " we will stop it . " whether we be talk about Northern Powerhouse Rail or HS2 , the economic development of the north of England have , in effect , be abandon by this Government . I do not know if the Prime Minister have ever drive up — or be drive up — the M6 , but it be at full capacity . the decision to not go ahead with hs2 will reduce not only the capacity of the rail system but the speed because the train will have to be split and they will not tilt . so the Government have isolate the north of England , and Manchester in particular . incidentally — this be not the main point of what I be go to say — I hear the Minister use the pork barrel politic of this Government by say , " well , Bradford can get this , so therefore it will not be support hs2 . " when I chair the board of Manchester airport , people in Yorkshire , the north - east and across the north of England know the economic benefit of transport come to Manchester . there be a North of England regional consortium that support both Manchester airport and well link to it . so it be completely wrong to juxtapose investment in Bradford — which Bradford need , as it have be neglect by most of the north of England — against investment in HS2 go to Manchester airport and to Manchester . I declare an interest , in that I be a director of Manchester airport as well , some year back , as a Salford city councillor appoint to that position . many in the House — although not the hon . member for Stoke - on - Trent South ( Jack Brereton ) — will remember phase 1of hs2 , and I sit on that Committee for the good part of a year and a half . the whole process be very elongate — I will try not to make my intervention too elongate — but what it boil down to be that when member of that Committee , particularly those on the Government side , have constituency interest , they tend to be far more accommodating , and the cost spiral because there be tunnel go here , there and everywhere instead of go direct . that inflate the price . the reason we be in this mess now be that the Government have realise that we be close to an election and they want to spend £ 12 billion of the £ 37 billion that should have be spend on phase 2 . they be now scatter it around certain place in the north of England in the hope that they can use that promise to get more — order . this be a very elongate intervention . I be grateful to my hon . friend for his very long intervention . he be obviously right . Cheryl Gillan do a fantastic job . she be oppose to HS2 , and she increase the cost enormously by get tunnel build under the hill in her constituency . another way of look at the economic nonsense we have have from this Government be that we do not have a high - speed route for the nation ; we have an extension of the London underground . we have tunnel lead out of London to Birmingham . I do not know the train time , but my guess be that the time go to Birmingham , go through the tunnel out of London , will be short than use the Elizabeth line to travel across London . HS2 be just part of the underground system . it be a London scheme now , not a national scheme . at the moment , travel from Stoke - on - Trent or Stafford down to London Euston , as Conservative Members do , take just over an hour . I would have think that most people regard that as pretty fast . indeed , but we be talk about major national infrastructure . I always hope that hs2 would not just go to Manchester and Leeds but , for both political and transport reason , would go to Scotland . as someone who believe in the Union between England and Scotland , I think that would help , and it would be very good transport policy , too . I thank the hon . gentleman for take another intervention . do he agree that cancel the northern leg of HS2 have take away capacity that be now end up on the road , and that we therefore have more congestion , more pollution and more environmental damage ? I agree with the hon . Lady , and I hope I have already make that point . the hon . Gentleman mention Scotland . of course , it be always intend that HS2 would be compatible with the conventional network that serve Scotland . why do he think the Department for Transport specify HS2 train that be not able to tilt and be not the right size to go on the classic network ? I can not answer that question . it be a Government decision , and the Minister have indicate that he will answer . I respect those who oppose hs2 . this House have support hs2 , which have be in all of our manifesto . I think it be outrageous that hs2 to Manchester have be cancel by an insulting edict from the Prime Minister . the most important point in this debate be make by my hon . friend the Member for Portsmouth South ( Stephen Morgan ) , who say that the elect Mayors of the west midland and Greater Manchester have put together a plan to consider alternative method of fund hs2 . I hope the Minister can reassure the House that the Government will not follow a " burn field " policy of destroy it to make it more difficult for an incoming Labour Government to resurrect it . the Conservative Members present say that they will remain opposed to HS2 , and I remain supportive , because HS2 be good for the country , good for the environment and good for the economy of the north of England . I be conscious of the time , and we have a number of member to get through . this debate be about fairness and scrutiny . for those live along the 24 km section of Northern Powerhouse Rail that be common with phase 2 and who will be blight by this process , especially between Rostherne and Warrington , be it really fair that the route have not be define ? I do not think it be fair , because it will have a major impact on all the people in that area for an awful long time . I think all of we in this House believe that it be right to be invest more in our railway and road network , whether they be in Staffordshire and the wide midland or in the north of England . I , like many member in this House , find it crazy how much difficulty we have cross from Yorkshire into Lancashire or vice versa and on infrastructure that have sadly be neglect over multiple generation . but we be not talk about small amount of money here . we be talk , at the most conservative end of the spectrum , about £ 12 billion , and if one be to speak to less - involve individual and rail expert , most of they would say that the current proposal on NPR be in region of £ 16 . 2 billion . surely on the basis of scrutiny and accountability , this House should be very interested and engage in how such large amount of money be go to be spend and properly purpose . some of we across the House will have differ view , but we should be able to scrutinise the proposal properly and put argument forward for our constituent and the community we represent , as oppose to this just be shuffle off upstairs into a Committee . though we be grateful to many member of that Committee and the former Committees there have be for the work they do , this issue involve significant amount of public money and will not be properly debate . look at this project in its pure form , we be give permission for a railway that start in a field in Cheshire and end somewhere in the Pennines at a place call node 3 . I be not quite sure where node 3 be , and I be not sure whether many constituent of mine or people in this House have express a particular desire to visit node 3 . that be how ill - define this all be . we be effectively give a complete pass to a small group of — I be sure — well - mean and well - intentione member of this House to determine so much , when there be much debate we need to have . there may be a great amount of discord . there will be conservative member such as my hon . friend the Members for Stoke - on - Trent South ( Jack Brereton ) and for Stone ( Sir William Cash ) and myself who have great concern about the HS2 project in its entirety and considerable concern as to whether what be be propose will get the good value for money and deliver the good service for our constituent across the midland and the north . there will be member on the Opposition Benches , and perhaps those on the Government Benches , with contrast view , but it be right that the project be properly debate and properly discuss . we be go to be blight the life of so many people across Cheshire and other part of the north - west of England without have have a proper debate . be the right hon . Gentleman not miss the point by talk , as he have do for however many minute , about process rather than outcome ? when other country around the world do major infrastructure project , they look at the whole picture , decide what they want to do , they get on with it and they finish it . they do not have all the hurdle we have in this country . the french , german , japanese and chinese look at this country and laugh . they laugh because the nimbyism that exist on both side of this House be stop economic progress and impact the standing of this country . order . we must ensure intervention be brief because the debate have to finish at 6 . 30pm . four more member wish to speak , possibly , before I have to call the Minister , so I ask colleague to be conscious of that . I guess I agree with a lot of what the hon . member for Preston ( Sir Mark Hendrick ) say . we be talk about a programme that will deliver something for some people in the mid - 2040 , which do not seem to be much of a dynamic , outcome - drive process . the hon . Gentleman want to drive the programme through so that his constituent , and all of our constituent , can get to node 3 in the middle of the Pennines . that be not necessarily the good form of process . he be right that we should be concern about outcome and how we deliver the good outcome for people across the country , but we be shuffle the matter upstairs without have a proper debate . we be effectively abdicate democratic accountability and responsibility over a budget and money of over £ 16 billion . I think we should be interested in that . do the right hon . Gentleman agree that the Government should ultimately draw a line under the mess they get themselves into with hs2 , start again and allow we all to start with a completely new process ? order . I warn those who want to get in later that I will have to limit speech to five minute . in light of colleague want to speak , I will draw my remark to a conclusion . there be a serious question about whether we be in danger of spend a lot more money . member of Parliament in Staffordshire be concerned that these measure be be use as a Trojan horse to ram hs2 through by the back door . there be also concern that we be try to bend a scheme that do not deliver the good outcome for people in the north , the midland or across the country . when there be so much concern that a scheme be not deliver those outcome , we should ensure there be proper scrutiny of the process . I urge the Minister to give clear reassurance about the concern that my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent South , other hon . member and I have raise . if he do not , he may have to start afresh and anew . order . the hon . member for Bath ( Wera Hobhouse ) have indicate that she do not want to speak , but I urge colleague to limit their comment to five minute or so in order to get everyone in . I welcome the debate so we can reflect on the importance of high - speed rail , the Northern Powerhouse Rail project , and connect our town and city . when we talk about connectivity , we always talk about the great powerhouse that be our city , but our town matter too . in many case , town have be the first to see cut and the last to see investment . we need to use this opportunity to talk about our community in the round . generation to come will look back at this period in our history with regret at a miss opportunity to invest in the future of our country . when previous generation plan the infrastructure we see today , and in many way take for grant , whether that be the canal , railway or motorway network that we enjoy , people have foresight . they plan well ahead , understand that in order to create a connected country they have to plan for a connected country , and take decision for future generation , not only the current one . in that spirit , the cancellation of HS2 from the midland to the north be a matter of serious regret . the proposal have be pitch to say , " well , the north of England can now have Northern Powerhouse Rail . isn ' t that good news ? " of course the £ 12 million investment connect Manchester and Liverpool be welcome , but London do not have to choose between HS2 and the Elizabeth line , which cost £ 19 billion . if London do not have to choose , why on earth should the north of England have to choose on the same basis ? again , it be because the north of England have be shortchange when it come to investment . local leader and Mayors across the midland and the north have be work hard to try to rescue this decision and make some sense of what it can mean for future investment . we owe a significant debt of gratitude to our great council leader , our Mayors and our transport authority — particularly the Northern Powerhouse Partnership , Transport for the North and the local transport body — for the work they have do . none the less , there be serious question about the proposal on the table . why do the Government seem to want to close the door completely on the idea that a midland to Manchester link of HS2 , fund by private finance , might be an option in the future ? if the government do not want to fund it today , why close the door for a funding model tomorrow ? why have Manchester Piccadilly be tell that it can not have tunnelling that would take the platform underground instead of overground , when the whole of the south of England be more or less tunnel from the centre of London outward ? why be a tunnel good enough for a field in the south of England , but not for one of our major city in the north of England ? Manchester Airport station be a significant hub not just for Greater Manchester , but for the whole of the north of England , so why be Greater Manchester and its taxpayer be ask to make a local contribution to that scheme , when it be essentially a national project ? why not use this as an opportunity to look at transport in the round ? heavy rail be important , and all the benefit of HS2 be well - rehearse : they be about capacity , passenger transport , take freight off the congested motorway , increase frequency and reduce cost . the whole project be also an opportunity to look at transport in the round — multi - modal transport , include bus , tram , train and other airport . why not use this as an opportunity to look beyond the city to our town ? it be a significant frustration in Greater Manchester that most of our transport rely on the centre of Manchester to go in and out , because the cross - borough connectivity be so poor . why not use this as an opportunity to bring forward plan to have an orbital tram for Greater Manchester — for the north - east of the conurbation — connect the bury line to Middleton and on to Chadderton and Oldham and through to the Ashton line , which , under these plan , face a two - year closure during engineering work at Manchester Piccadilly . why not use this as an opportunity for that ? why not use this scheme as an opportunity to reinvigorate plan for reopen some of the line close by Beeching ? it would be fantastic to reopen the Middleton Junction station on the rochdale to Manchester Victoria line , serve new community that have be rebuild around the Foxdenton Lane area in Chadderton . why not use it as an opportunity to have a join - up transport system ? FirstGroup , through the Lumo brand , have suggest a potential 2027 connection from Rochdale to London Euston . it will pass through Mills Hill in Chadderton and Moston , which serve Chadderton , without stop to say hello . why not look at that in the round and say that , since the light rail system be introduce in Oldham , there be no long a heavy rail station for Oldham town centre . the near that we have be Mills Hill , so why not have that national connectivity at Mills Hill , join up to Victoria and on to London Euston ? the hon . Gentleman be make an incredibly powerful argument , but he be also make an argument as to why this should be a wide discussion ; it should not just be shunt upstairs . do he agree that we need to open up this debate so that we can have bespoke , clear legislation to make this happen ? the problem be that there be no debate or legislation when the Prime Minister wake up one morning and decide to cancel hs2 ; it be do on a whim . all those manifesto commitment , all those promise to the business community and to the public that we would see this through , because we have a generational responsibility to plan for the future , be scrap overnight . I have no faith that any further parliamentary process will ultimately deliver well transport in the north of England . in the end , it will be use by people who have another interest , which be to stop it entirely . if we have a Labour Government — I hope that we will not — do the hon . Gentleman think that they would bring phase 2 back ? in the end , it would be for the Labour Government to assess what they inherit at that point , but do that not make the case for not have a scorch - earth policy of completely derail what could have be HS2 by sell off the land and the asset that be purchase to free up that route in the way this Government be currently propose ? will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will , although I be conscious of time , Madam Deputy Speaker . the hon . Gentleman call it a scorch - earth policy . I declare my interest as somebody whose family farm be affect by the propose route of HS2 phase 2b , but ultimately people such my own family and the community I live in have be suffer for over a decade with uncertainty about whether the project would go ahead . he call it scorch earth , but be it not only fair that people get their life back after have that uncertainty for so long ? any function Government should be able to balance the need to involve local people in decision that affect their day - to - day life , provide certainty about the future and be able to get vital infrastructure investment for the country off the ground . it should not be a trade - off between one or the other , where people ' s livelihood and life be leave in the air for year and year , only for the project to be take away . in the end , nobody win , do they ? People can not get the time back that they waste be stress about the impact because they be not properly consult and engage , only to have it scrap overnight — and for what ? it be about involve people in the right time in the right decision , so that they have agency in the process . I will bring my remark to a conclusion with this : if London do not have to choose between its sub - regional investment and its national investment , why on earth should the north of England ? in order to get the last two speaker in , I need to put on a time limit of six minute . thank you very much , Madam Deputy Speaker ; I think I can do it a lot quick than that . I agree with the remark make by my hon . friend from Staffordshire and , in particular , my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent South ( Jack Brereton ) , who set out the practical side . I also agree with the scrapping by the Government of the Birmingham to Crewe section , but that do have consequence , both for my constituent and for those between Crewe and Manchester . have look at the appalling behaviour of hs2 over the year , the mess over compensation that be still carry on , and thing like that — I have be into all that in the past , and it be not strictly speak the subject of this particular debate , but it be a very serious point — I also agree with my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent South that the Bill should be withdraw and reintroduce , to ensure that the petitioner by reason of valid additional provision , as a matter of principle , can have it examine properly in all respect , ab initio . as I say in my intervention , the sleight of hand of this instruction , which as I have already note be self - contradictory and purport to provide for matter that be , in my opinion , unprincipled and , as a matter of law and procedure , be state thing to be so that simply be not so , be not the way to proceed . there be a lot of merit in the way the Government be reorientate the object in order to improve the situation in other part of the country . however , as regard those directly affected — and ultimately the hybrid Bill procedure and its principle be about protect those petitioner injuriously affect by a Bill ' s provision — I believe the motion be morally unjustified , indefensible and damaging to the right of petitioner , with respect both to the constituent between Birmingham and Manchester and to my constituent who will be affect between Birmingham and Crewe . as the hon . Gentleman have be admirably short , I will call Grahame Morris , but please remember that I need to bring in the Minister as well . thank you very much , Madam Deputy Speaker — I will respect your wish . I have not intend to speak in the debate , so I apologise for be late . I serve on the House of Commons Transport Committee , along with colleague who speak early from the Government Benches . I also serve on the HS2 hybrid Bill Committee that deal with the section from Crewe to Manchester Piccadilly . be the hon . Gentleman actually involve with a Bill that be currently in existence , or be he suggest that something should be do in respect of a Bill that be not the same as the Bill that be introduce in the first place ? my goodness , that be a complicated intervention — I be not sure that I be suitably qualified to answer it . I just think that I might share some of my thought have serve on the Bill Committee , without any particular axe to grind . I serve on the Bill Committee because I be ask to do so as a servant of the House , in order to consider the merit or otherwise of the various petition . I do not know whether member be familiar with the process . I be not suggest for a moment that it be perfect , and I know that there be argument for revise the hybrid Bill procedure , which be quite lengthy , but some right hon . and hon . member have suggest — perhaps through a lack of understanding of the process — that it be a mechanism for steamroll through opposition , and I can absolutely assure they that that do not happen . in fact , if anything , petitioner — who may be individual , business , environmental group , local authority or group represent commercial interest , such as the National Farmers ' Union — be give ample opportunity to make representation to the Committee through petition , and then to speak to those petition and articulate their argument for mitigation , compensation and route variation . will the hon . member give way ? I will , but I be conscious of time . the hon . Member will know from Transport Committee visit that some of the commitment make in the hybrid Bill Committee have not be honour . do he share my concern about that ? as well as have serve on the hybrid Bill Committee , I serve on the Transport Committee , and part of that Committee ' s duty be to scrutinise hs2 and hold the Rail Minister , who be responsible for the delivery of HS2 , to account . certainly , concern be express to the Transport Committee that statutory undertaking and assurance be not honour — at least not in the form in which they be present to the Committee . will my hon . friend give way on that point ? I will give way one more time , very briefly . this be only separate out because , as in this debate , some try to make out that resident be oppose to the project overall . however , my hon . friend must have see in the hybrid Bill Committee process that quite a lot of the opposition be about the operational performance of HS2 Ltd and the consideration for local people in construction traffic , delay and the rest of it , which probably could have be do much well . I be grateful to my hon . friend for that perfectly reasonable point . indeed , it be certainly true of request for variation to traffic in location of construction site and so forth . however , I only have a couple of minute , so I do not want to be tempt on to the wrong track , as it be , and will just share a couple of thought . I be a bit of a buff . I might be an anti - node , but I be familiar with the location on the route . this afternoon , those of we on the Transport Committee have be involve in the pre - legislative scrutiny of the rail reform Bill , and have be listen to representation from representative of the Welsh Government and the sub - national transport body . they be comment on the new structure and the new draft Bill , and there be general recognition — not just from Transport for the North in my region ; we have witness from Midlands Connect and Transport East , as well as the Welsh Government — that there be a major transport infrastructure issue . for many decade , we have concentrate on north - south connectivity — principally on connectivity with the capital city . we have do that for sound economic reason , but the case for east - west connection be support vociferously by the metro Mayors of Manchester , Liverpool and West Yorkshire , and there be sound economic and connectivity argument for address the need for those connection . this mechanism be far from perfect . as a separate matter , the House should look at whether the pre - legislative scrutiny process can be truncate in some way to speed it up , but we must give petitioner — member of Parliament , individual and business — the opportunity to raise their concern . imperfect though the mechanism may be , and imperfect though I may be in advocate for it , it do have its merit when it come to scrutinise major infrastructure scheme such as this one , so I will support today ' s motion . before I call the Minister , I think the hon . member for Easington ( Grahame Morris ) open his remark by say that he might have be late for the debate . I can assure he that I have be tell he be certainly in the Chamber at the beginning of the debate . otherwise , I would not have let he speak . I call the Minister . with the leave of the House , I commend the motion to the House . as I say early , today ' s debate mark an important step forward in improve travel in the north , and I thank all right hon . and hon . friend and Members for their input . in the time I have , I will try to address as many of the contribution make as possible . colleague from across the House make important point , which I will do my good to address . I will start with the amendment , begin with amendment ( a ) . my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent South ( Jack Brereton ) talk passionately about the need to reduce uncertainty for local community . there should be no doubt that the result of the unamended motion will be solely to remove all element of the scheme that need to be remove for the cancellation of the cancel section of HS2 — I hope that provide the reassurance that my right hon . friend the Member for South Staffordshire ( Sir Gavin Williamson ) ask for . I be sure that the House would agree that the Network North announcement be unambiguous in its commitment to stop that scheme , and the Government have already start reinveste the money that be save in alternative project across the country . the Government agree that it would be ideal if we could announce the precise point of truncation now , but that point of truncation can not be specify until there have be a full assessment of the work that will be need to deliver this section of Northern Powerhouse Rail . however , I assure the House that the Department and the organisation be work to deliver that assessment , with an eye to secure the good value for money for taxpayer and reduce disruption for resident . the result of the assessment will be publish in a supplementary environmental statement as soon as possible . as an aside , accept amendment ( a ) as draft would leave a hole in the railway in the event that the truncation be not as specify by the amendment , which would obviously not be an ideal way to build a railway . amendment ( b ) would remove a propose maintenance depot from the Bill . that depot , which could be a temporary structure , in place during the building of the railway , be in Ashley in the constituency of Tatton . for clarity , I should add that all aspect of the scheme between Millington and Manchester be be review to ensure that they be necessary . whether there should be a maintenance depot at Ashley be a matter for petition to the Committee , and if the motion be carry unamended , the Committee will have the opportunity to discuss the maintenance depot through petition . in general , we believe that the work at Ashley mention in amendment ( b ) will be need to minimise road traffic in the area as far as possible , and that be why there be no proposal to remove it at this stage . furthermore , some of the material need to build the railway be very large , such as section of rail , and these very large item can only be bring in safely by rail . we will , however , assess whether the size of the site can be reduce . amendment ( c ) be consequential on amendment ( a ) , about which I have already speak . finally , turn to amendment ( d ) , remove the word " high speed " could have unfortunate consequence for the Bill . it would allow petitioner to argue for amendment that stipulate speed restriction , which could greatly impede the eventual operation of the railway . it would also mean that the motion be less align with the current title and agree purpose of the Bill . the Government ' s aspiration for the Northern Powerhouse Rail project be to deliver the good for the north , include the fast journey time possible . we want to bring the urban centre of the north close together , drive economic growth by make it easy to live , work and recruit across the different part of the region . the reference to " high speed " rail in the instruction to the Committee underline this commitment . will the Minister give way ? I will not take any intervention because of time . let I touch on some of the other point raise . in reply to my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent South , just to be absolutely clear , the original instruction for the Select Committee be to consider HS2 phase 2b and Northern Powerhouse Rail , as be debate at length in June 2022 , and I believe that be the mandate give . it be never the case that we be go to talk about phase 2b alone ; NPR be very much part of the purpose . opposition Members have say that we should crack on — or I use those word — but let I make it clear that my advice be that it would take an extra five year to start this process all over again , as oppose to two week to repurpose the Committee , so if we want to see Northern Powerhouse Rail deliver , it make sense to follow this mechanism . have work with official in Parliament , I believe that this mechanism be correct , and I do not agree with the point make about how it be somehow not valid . we would not put something through the House if the House official have not agree that it be in order . on Chat Moss , I have make the point time and again to my right hon . and hon . friend — we have discuss this a lot ; no one can say that we have not have a good , rigorous discussion — that the proposal would miss out Manchester airport and Warrington Bank Quay . as my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent South know , I do not agree with the point he make , and he do not agree with the point I make ; that be the beauty of democracy . the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Portsmouth South ( Stephen Morgan ) , as well as the hon . member for Blackley and Broughton ( Graham Stringer ) and for Oldham West and Royton ( Jim McMahon ) , speak along the line of the north be short - changed . I absolutely dispute that , and let I give they the example of the TransPennine route upgrade , because that be the start of Northern Powerhouse Rail . it be go on right now , and the electrification for Stalybridge will be ready for next year . on the point about Crossrail , more money will be invest by this Government or the UK taxpayer on the TRU — just that section , which be the backbone or precursor of Northern Powerhouse Rail — than on the entirety of Crossrail , so I do believe that we be invest in the north , and I support investment in the north . as far as the plan for Birmingham to Manchester be concern , I understand that the mayor be work on proposal . those proposal have not be put to we , so we do not have anything to address . the Government have be clear — other may not agree with we — that we be not move forward with phase 2a or 2b of HS2 . those be our proposal . there be talk of pork barrel politic in relation to Bradford , which I think be a new one for Conservative Members , but I go there with the hon . member for Easington ( Grahame Morris ) , and the Government be commit to give Bradford what it need to regenerate the young city in this country . I fully support what we be do to repurpose money from HS2 for Bradford , Hull and other part of the north and the midland . on the point make by the hon . member for Oldham West and Royton about an underground station in Manchester , the option available be be assess , so the proposal be on the table to discuss and look at . I think there be only one London station that have an underground element , which be the Thameslink part of St Pancras , so London do not have a plethora of such underground station . however , we want to work with the Mayor of Manchester to see what be possible , and that also apply to the Mayor of Liverpool . the great man the hon . member for Easington talk about the hybrid Bill Committee . he talk with experience , because he have be on it . I thank he for that , and I hope his work will start again in a couple of week ' time . he be absolutely right , and I have talk to the Chairman of Ways and Means to ensure that we can amend the process to make it fast , so that we can build this railway fast . in conclusion , my official and I will continue to engage with local resident , leader and community , and member of this place regard how we design the railway and how to minimise disruption from construction . I understand the differ concern of hon . member across the House , but I be keen , as always , to work with they constructively to try to address those point and move this project forward . I commend the motion to the House . question put . Diane Abbott Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Rosena Allin - Khan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Shaun Bailey Duncan Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Paula Barker Simon Baynes Margaret Beckett Aaron Bell Hilary Benn Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Paul Blomfield Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Nick Brown Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Dawn Butler Ruth Cadbury Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Alan Campbell Gregory Campbell Andy Carter Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Bambos charalambous Jo Churchill Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Therese Coffey Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Neil Coyle Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch John Cryer Judith Cummins Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Alex Davies - Jones Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Samantha Dixon Jonathan Djanogly Anneliese Dodds Stephen Doughty Flick Drummond David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Angela Eagle Ruth Edwards Damien Egan Julie Elliott Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Chris Elmore Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Chris Evans Laura Farris Simon fall Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Vicky Foxcroft Lucy Frazer Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Gill Furniss George Galloway Barry Gardiner Mark Garnier Nick Gibb Jo Gideon Preet Kaur Gill John Glen Mary Glindon Robert Goodwill Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Robert Halfon Luke Hall Fabian Hamilton Stephen Hammond Harriet Harman Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart Helen Hayes John Hayes James Heappey Gordon Henderson Mark Hendrick Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Sharon Hodgson Richard Holden Kate Hollern Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Rachel Hopkins George Howarth John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Dan Jarvis Ranil Jayawardena Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Kevan Jones Marcus Jones Ruth Jones Simon Jupp Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Gen Kitchen Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Pauline Latham Kim Leadbeater Andrea Leadsom Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Simon Lightwood Mark Logan Rebecca Long - Bailey Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Holly Lynch Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Seema Malhotra Kit Malthouse Scott Mann Julie Marson Rachael Maskell Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Steve McCabe Karl McCartney John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Conor McGinn Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Stephen McPartland Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Anne Marie Morris Grahame Morris James Morris Wendy Morton Holly Mumby - Croft James Murray Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Jesse Norman Alex Norris Neil o ' Brien Guy Opperman Abena Oppong - Asare Taiwo Owatemi Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning Matthew Pennycook John Penrose Chris Philp Luke Pollard Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Tom Pursglove will Quince Tom Randall Bell Ribeiro - Addy Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Marie Rimmer Gavin Robinson Andrew Rosindell Dean Russell Lloyd Russell - Moyle David Rutley Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew Selous Naseem Shah Jim Shannon Grant Shapps Alok Sharma Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Andrew Slaughter Cat Smith Chloe Smith Henry Smith Jeff Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Jo Stevens Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Alistair Strathern Gary Streeter Wes Streeting Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Mark Tami Sam Tarry Derek Thomas Gareth Thomas Stephen Timms Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Elizabeth Truss Steve Tuckwell Karl Turner Liz Twist Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Charles Walker Robin Walker Matt Warman Chris Webb Suzanne Webb Claudia Webbe Andrew Western Matt Western Heather Wheeler Mick Whitley John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Mike Wood Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Mark Jenkinson Joy Morrissey Jack Brereton Bill cash Philip Davies Richard Foord Wera Hobhouse Adam Holloway Helen Morgan Gavin Williamson Philip Hollobone Greg Smith the House divide : Ayes 323 , Noes 7 . question accordingly agree to . resolve , that it be an instruction to the Select Committee to which the High Speed Rail ( Crewe - Manchester ) Bill be commit to deal with the Bill as follow : ( 1 ) the Committee shall , before conclude its proceeding , amend the Bill by — ( a ) leave out provision relate to a railway between a junction with phase 2a of High Speed 2 south of Crewe in Cheshire and a point in the vicinity of the parish of Millington and Rostherne in Cheshire , ( b ) leave out provision relate to a railway between Hoo Green in Cheshire and a junction with the West Coast Main Line at Bamfurlong , south of Wigan , and ( c ) make such amendment to the Bill as it think fit in consequence of the amendment make by virtue of sub - paragraph ( a ) and ( b ) . ( 2 ) the Committee shall not hear any petition to the extent that it — ( a ) relate to whether or not there should be — ( i ) a railway between a junction with phase 2a of High Speed 2 south of Crewe in Cheshire and a point in the vicinity of the parish of Millington and Rostherne in Cheshire , or ( ii ) a railway between Hoo Green in Cheshire and a junction with the West Coast Main Line at Bamfurlong , south of Wigan , or ( b ) otherwise relate to a railway mention in sub - paragraph ( a ) . ( 3 ) the Committee shall treat the principle of the Bill , as determine by the House on the Bill ' s Second Reading , as comprise the matter mention in paragraph ( 4 ) ; and those matter shall accordingly not be at issue during proceeding of the Committee . ( 4 ) the matter refer to in paragraph ( 3 ) be — ( a ) the provision of a high speed railway between a point in the vicinity of the parish of Millington and Rostherne in Cheshire and Manchester Piccadilly Station , ( b ) in relation to the railway mention in sub - paragraph ( a ) as set out on the plan deposit in January 2022 in connection with the Bill in the office of the Clerk of the Parliaments and the Private Bill Office of the House of Commons , its broad route alignment , and ( c ) the fact that there be to be no new station ( other than Manchester Piccadilly and Manchester Airport ) on the railway mention in sub - paragraph ( a ) . ( 5 ) the Committee shall have power to consider any amendment propose by the member in charge of the Bill which , if the Bill be a private bill , could not be make except upon petition for additional provision . ( 6 ) paragraph ( 5 ) apply only so far as the amendment propose by the member in charge of the Bill fall within the principle of the Bill as provide for by paragraph ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) above . that these order be Standing Orders of the House . that the Order of 20 June 2022 ( High Speed Rail ( Crewe - Manchester ) Bill : instruction ( no . 2 ) ) be rescind . Petition - Hambrook Junction in Filton and Bradley Stoke I rise to present the petition of resident of the United Kingdom in the parish of Winterbourne , in the constituency of Filton and Bradley Stoke , relate to the Hambrook junction and the prohibition of vehicle cross the junction in all direction , as they previously do . an identical petition online that have reach almost 4 , 000 signature also address this problem , which resident can still sign . that petition be start by local resident Mr and Mrs Gay , who be also the signatory to this petition . the petition state : the petition of resident of the constituency of Filton and Bradley Stoke , declare that petitioner object to traffic light be disabled ; far declare that motorist be force to drive far to get to where they need to be . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to encourage South Gloucestershire Council to reinstate the status quo ante and turn these traffic light back on . and the petitioner remain , etc . [ p002991 ] petition - Decent Homes Standard in the private Rented Sector I rise to present a petition on implement the decent home standard in the private rent sector . over a million household in the private rented sector be live with damp , mould and other serious hazard , with one in five private renter report housing issue make they physically sick . the introduction of a legally bind decent home standard in the private rent sector will significantly increase the enforcement power of local authority and help to hold private landlord to account . the petition state : " the petitioner therefore request the House of Commons to urge the Government to introduce the Decent Homes Standard in the private rent sector across England . and the petitioner remain , etc . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the constituency of Manchester Gorton , declare that a decent home be warm , weatherproof and have reasonably modern facility ; far declare that everyone deserve to live in a home that be decent , safe and secure ; note that in the North West of England , a third of private rent home fail to meet the Decent Homes Standard ; further note that hazard in the private rent sector cost the NHS £ 290 million annually ; far declare alarm that over one in five private rented home be not up to standard and as a consequence there be over a million household live with damp , mould and other serious hazard affect their physical and mental health ; and further note that the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities publish a Fairer Private Rented Sector White Paper in June 2022 which make provision for a Decent Homes Standard and though the Government have commit to bring such measure in , no detail have yet be forthcoming . the petitioner therefore request the House of Commons to urge the Government to introduce the Decent Homes Standard in the private rent sector across England . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p002979 ] Allergy Guidance for Schools Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Aaron Bell . ) thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for grant this important debate . for too long , allergy have be see as a personal issue to be manage by the individual affect . that need to change . allergy in school - age child be rise quickly , and around 45 , 000 people bear each year will develop an allergy . school should be a safe space for our child to grow and develop , yet for those with allergy and their family the joy of education be too often compromise by safety and medical risk . there be 680 , 000 pupil in England with an allergy , so every classroom have at least one or two live with an allergy . tragically , anaphylaxis occur in educational setting more than in any other public space , and that show in and of itself that we need to take action . we need to address this today — it have already go on for too long — to give parent and child the confidence of know that our school be allergy safe . if we do not , the consequence be truly heartbreaking . Benedict Blythe from Stamford be a gifted child . he be able to complete a 24 - piece puzzle by himself age just one . he could match number card by 18 month and create pie chart by the time he be school age . his mother Helen recall purchase he a book of the complete human nervous system in an attempt to quench his thirst for knowledge . by aged four , Benedict be a member of Mensa and practise math at the level of a 10 - year - old . he be a truly talented child , but it be his compassion and care for his family , and his infectious energy that make he just so loved . despite all his strength , his life be mark by challenge stem from his asthma and his allergy . as he begin to try a wide range of food , as all child do , Benedict suffer allergic reaction , first to baby rice , then to baby porridge and then to whey powder . what should have be a normal part of grow up see he hospitalise . his family , through careful planning and care , work out what he could eat safely . but while they could guarantee his safety at home , they have to trust other with Benedict when he go on play date , mix with other child and , eventually of course , go to nursey and school . he be aware of his allergy . like my nephew and so many other , he learn to ask what be in a product before he eat . he be so cautious about he could and could not eat , but he also have to rely on those around he to keep he safe . aged two , a nursery worker pour cow ' milk over his cereal , cause a severe reaction . the worker claim he have be give oat milk and only admit the mistake once young Benedict ' s lip and tongue have begin to swell , and he suddenly stop be able to breathe . the delay in admit the mistake and begin treatment for the reaction could have be fatal . however , tragically , that repeat itself when , age just five , Benedict eat something at school that cause he to collapse , and he die the same day . I know that the whole House will join I in honour Benedict and recognise his unique character and intelligence . he dream of become a doctor , and I be sure he would have achieve that ambition and so much more . his story be every mother and father ' s nightmare : the loss of their child , the pain so profound as to be unimaginable ; their child go to school and just never come home . yet despite that nightmare , Benedict ' s mother have endeavour to ensure that other child can go to school safely , and I salute she for her fortitude and her strength . will the hon . Lady give way ? I will happily give way to the hon . Gentleman , who have himself hold debate on this important issue . I commend the hon . Lady for raise the issue . she have tell the story of young Benedict so well . she have honour he and honour his family , and we thank she for that . my second son be now a young man , but as a wee boy he have a number of allergy , so I understand the issue all too well : I understand the importance of control a boy ' s diet and , indeed , the very life that he lead . do the hon . Lady agree — in fact , I think she may be come to this point — that give the increase in the incidence of allergic reaction , each school must have a train member of staff on the premise at all time to know the sign and how to deal with they ? do she also agree — and here I look to the Minister — that the necessary funding uplift must be allocate in addition to exist school budget ? the hon . Gentleman be entirely right . the problem be that because the guidance be currently not mandatory , school have completely different response . at my nephew ' s school , for example , there be a picture of every child with a severe allergy on the teacher ' board , so that every day when the teacher go in they know which child to be more alert to , and in an emergency they know exactly what to do because there be a commentary under each picture . that be the kind of response that we need , but yes , we will need more . we see the Government act strongly and quickly in response to the need to install atrial defibrillator in school , and I ask they to take the same approach in this regard . the number of child who have die of allergy in our school be far high than the number who have die of any sort of heart incident , so I really think that it be time for action . I congratulate my hon . friend and constituency neighbour on secure this important debate , and on the fact that although Adjournment debate be normally lonely affair , other be present for this one . do she agree that the cost the Government would incur in help school to provide , for example , adrenaline pen be , in the overall scheme of thing , very small indeed , and should not be a barrier to supply school with a little bit of extra cash to procure a few adrenaline pen which may save life ? my right hon . friend be right , and I pay tribute to he for raise this issue during Prime Minister ' s question only last week on behalf of Benedict and his family . other country have take action , and we have the opportunity to do the same . the Benedict Blythe Foundation have work tirelessly under Helen ' s leadership to investigate the issue face pupil with allergy , and — most importantly — to make policy recommendation to solve they . that work culminate early this year with the publication of the REACT report , and I want to summarise its finding ; it be the first time that the House will have hear they . the author investigate 2 , 198 school across England , 10 % of the total , and find , concerningly , that a third of they have no clear policy on allergy — not that they have a reduced or non - mandatory policy , but that they have no policy at all . many school do not record allergy incident accurately , and , most worryingly , half of they do not have lifesave medicine on site . only two year ago , a young child die at school because another child have throw a piece of cheese at his face . his reaction be so extreme that he die that day . if he have have access to lifesave medicine , that child would still be with we . extensive research have make it clear that allergy provision in school be a lottery . some school go above and beyond to create an allergy - safe environment , but the lack of an allergy policy in other be absolutely wrong . I ask Members to imagine be the parent of a child with an allergy . how would they feel about send their love one to school not know whether he or she would be safe ? too many parent be not confident about send their child to school , which unfortunately mean that we be see too many child with allergy miss day of school . that be a priority for we to tackle . follow the pandemic , we know just how damaging it be not to have our child in school . I be afraid that the root cause of these issue be a lack of clarity in the Department for Education guidance , and a lack of accountability mechanism to ensure that exist guidance be follow . in the previous debate on this matter , which be organise by the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , we discuss the need for that to be part of ofsted inspection , because it should be part of the mechanism . the medical condition statutory guidance currently give to school do not mention allergy specifically , and there be evidence that some school consider allergy to be a dietary issue , rather than a medical consideration . that be just not good enough and , frankly , it be dangerous . some 70 % of school do not have the recommend allergy safeguard in place , which demonstrate that have well - mean guidance be just not sufficient . I therefore ask the Minister to consider issue new , bespoke guidance to all school on how to be allergy safe . that would not be onerous ; it would simply require an email to go out to every single school in the country . draw on extensive research and expert opinion , the REACT report have produce a set of safeguard that would ensure that our education system be safe for all pupil . first , it argue that every allergic reaction should be record and report . I be not surprised that the Department for Education may well under - recognise the importance of this issue , because that be not take place . it would allow school with a high number of pupil with allergy to get more support , and it would give decision maker the information they need to make informed decision and ensure the intelligent distribution of resource . secondly , all school should have a specific allergy policy , include an anaphylaxis plan . allergy be potentially life - threaten and be so common that they should have their own bespoke policy , separate from those for other medical condition . thirdly , every school should have an individual healthcare plan for every child with an allergy , and it should be review with a doctor . seemingly mild allergy can quickly morph into severe reaction , and attempt at distinguish between child on the basis of allergy severity be mislead and potentially damaging . just because a child be assess as have a low allergy risk do not mean that they will not have a severe reaction one day . mandate individual healthcare plan for every child with an allergy would create a safe environment . fourthly , funding should be give for every school to train its staff in how to administer adrenalin auto - injector in an emergency . each school should also keep a spare inhaler and antihistamine as part of a bespoke , allergy first - aid kit . fifthly , all school staff should receive basic training in allergy awareness management and emergency response , which be also about a duty of care for they . if I be a teacher , I would not want to operate in that environment if I do not know how to respond should a child in my care have a severe allergic reaction . it be vital that we give teacher the tool they need , and that we ensure that good practice be learn from school with comprehensive allergy plan . finally , accountability mechanism should be establish to monitor and support school as they implement their allergy plan . sadly , as we have see , there be already a gulf between what the Government recommend on allergy and what school be actually implement . as we introduce well and clear guidance , we must ensure that it be follow across the country . adopt those policy would ensure that child with allergy can go to school safe in the knowledge that they will not be expose to danger . there be no way to eradicate all risk when it come to allergy , but we can make school as allergy - safe as possible . every parent need to know that their child ' s condition be not be ignore , dismiss , misunderstood or play down , and teacher also deserve that surety . as my right hon . friend the Member for North West Cambridgeshire ( Shailesh Vara ) point out , our international partner have show that change be achievable . Sabrina ' s law require canadian school to provide allergy and adrenaline auto - injector training for all teacher and staff . Minnesotan law mandate that all allergic student have access to emergency medicine and an individual healthcare plan . the Allison Rose Suhy Act incentivise school in Ohio to train both staff and student on allergy awareness . Elijah ' s law ensure that daycare employee in New York be train to recognise anaphylaxis and to administer adrenaline . finally , Amarria ' s law require public school in Virginia to stock adrenaline auto - injector . there be no reason why child in the UK should face great risk at school than their peer abroad . these allergy provision have be common practice across the US , Australia and Canada for decade , and we now need to adopt they here . the policy set out by the Benedict Blythe Foundation in the REACT report show how we can not just match international standard , but surpass they and make the UK the safe place in the world for pupil with allergy to attend school . this be a condition on the rise . More and more child have allergy , and we need to take action . I therefore ask the Government to commit to produce Benedict ' s law , and to meet I to discuss how it can be implement . we be not look at significant cost or want to put more duty on teacher . we want to make sure that teacher feel that they be in a safe workplace where they can take the action need to do what they care about most : protect and support their child and young people to become strong adult with bright future ahead of they . in memory of Benedict Blythe and in honour of his mother Helen ' s tireless advocacy , we should ensure that no pupil with an allergy and their family ever again have to choose between feel safe and medical safety and take up education . no parent should live in fear that their child will not come home from school one day as a result of a condition that can be prevent . there be no reason for any child to die in our school of an allergy . we just need simple allergy policy , adrenaline auto - injector and to take action . we can save life by take action now . I thank the Minister in advance for his consideration , and I look forward to hear his response . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Rutland and Melton ( Alicia Kearns ) for bring this debate to the Floor of the House . I greatly value the opportunity to hear her insight today and elsewhere on this important topic . I must first take a moment , as she do , in memory of Benedict Blythe , who die at his school in December 2021 age just five year . I be sadden immensely to hear of that unimaginable tragedy , and I know that member from all part of the House join in offer our sincere condolence to his family , to other family who have lose child in such circumstance and to those who have suffer what must be terrify near miss . no parent should have to go through that . colleague will appreciate that it would not be right or proper for I to comment on the detail of Benedict ' s individual case while we be await the outcome of the coroner ' s inquest . I can confirm that last year official from the Department for Education meet Benedict ' s mother , Helen Blythe , to hear about the important work she have lead through the Benedict Blythe Foundation to raise awareness of how good to protect child with allergy . I echo the word that my hon . Friend use of Helen Blythe , speak of her fortitude and strength . I commend Helen for those effort and her commitment , and I commend parliamentarian who have support this work — not only my hon . friend , but my right hon . friend the Member for North West Cambridgeshire ( Shailesh Vara ) and the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) . when parent send their child to school , it be only right and natural that they expect they to be keep safe . for parent of child with allergy , there be that additional level of concern . allergy can be complex condition and can range enormously in severity . although today we have be speak mostly about food allergy , not all allergen be food , which make the issue more complicated again . allergy themselves be therefore a highly individual and varied condition that require individualised response . that be why the Government have put into place a number of piece of legislation , as well as guidance to school and parent cover a range of area and circumstance . I have hear the call to strengthen the law around allergy and reference to voluntary approach and voluntary guidance . I stress that section 100 of the Children and Families Act 2014 place a legal duty on school to make arrangement for support pupil at their school with medical condition , and that include allergy . I know the Minister be diligent , conscientious and care in all that he do , and the tone he be adopt clearly show that . while he be absolutely right that there be legislation and guidance for school as to how to deal with this issue , I and other would say that it be too general in nature , and it leave much discretion with the school as to what precisely they do in the event of a child have an allergic reaction . I urge he to reflect and to consider tighten the law , so that they become mandatory . that should be in a limited way , but nevertheless we need some mandatory rule for school , rather than they be leave as general and vague as they be at present . I be grateful to my right hon . friend , and I acknowledge the gravity of what he say . of course , we be talk about condition that can be very varied , and the response that be call for can be quite different . school know their pupil almost well ; they , work with parent , who absolutely know their child well , be in the good place to enact that . I want to be clear that the guidance that accompany what I have just be outline be statutory guidance support pupil with medical condition . it be not voluntary , and govern body must have regard to it when carry out their duty . I apologise for intervene on my right hon . friend because I know that he want to make progress , but this might be something that he could commit to today . the problem , as I set out in my speech , be that too many school think that allergy be a dietary issue , not a medical issue . if the next mailer to all school reiterate that we see allergy very clearly as a medical condition , and remind they of their statutory duty , that could go a long way to force all school to take the action that he rightly say that they can take . this would not be as top - down ; it would reiterate the regulation , and allow school to take the action that they need to . my hon . friend be absolutely right to talk about awareness and understanding , and the role of communication in that . I will speak a little more about communication , but there be always more that we will need to do . of course , I would also be happy to continue the conversation with she about how good we do it . the guidance make it clear that school should ensure that they be aware of any pupil with allergy , and should have process in place to ensure that the allergy can be well manage . practice to identify child with such need could include wristband , or , as my hon . Friend say , have a photograph of the child alongside detail of their allergy in the kitchen or serve area of the school . I stress again that individual school be well place to work with parent to put in place the most effective responsive system . in addition to the section 100 duty , school be subject to other requirement . in the UK , food business must inform consumer if they use any of the 14 mandatory allergen as ingredient in their food . how allergen information should be provide depend on whether the food be prepacke , non - prepacke or prepacke for direct sale . this include food provide by institution such as school caterer , who have a responsibility to protect the people in their care . as colleague may know , rule on the provision of food labelling be set out primarily in the retain 2014 regulation , and these include a requirement to identify the presence of any of those 14 mandatory allergen to consumer . the Department for Education also work closely with the Food Standards Agency , which provide free food allergy and intolerance training online . this offer practical advice to local authority law enforcement officer and anyone want to learn more about food allergy , such as those work in the food manufacturing and catering industry . the FSA also offer a whole host of other training , technical document and guidance . turn to auto - injector , these can be vital when a child be suffer an allergic reaction . to support school in meet the need of child with allergy , the Government pass the Human Medicines ( Amendment ) Regulations 2017 , which allow school to obtain and hold spare adrenaline auto - injector for administration to pupil in an emergency . the Department for Health and Social Care have produce guidance on the use of adrenaline auto - injector and emergency inhaler in school , include the purchase of spare . the guidance make it clear that any adrenalin auto - injector hold by a school should be consider a back - up device , rather than a replacement for a pupil ' s own adrenalin auto - injector . beyond this , family have a vital role to play in manage their child ' s condition . we be very clear with school that no one will know a child ' s need as well as their parent , and that school should work closely with parent . the parent of child with allergy will work with medical professional and other organisation to plan for and navigate their child ' s specific need . parent should be fully consult and engage in any discussion relate to their child ' s allergy . school will also need to ensure that the parent or carer of child with food allergy or intolerance be give information about the allergenic ingredient use in the food available . good communication between parent and school on allergy and pupil ' need be essential to keep child safe while in school . my hon . friend the Member for Rutland and Melton refer to the role of Ofsted , far to the point make by the hon . member for Strangford , and the importance of school have a clear allergy policy and involve parent in discussion about the need of their child . ofsted inspector gather a wide range of evidence to make their judgment , and evaluate the experience of individual or group of individual , which can include the experience of pupil with medical need , if the issue be raise by parent or pupil . in an inspection , inspector will assess the effectiveness of safeguarding at the school , which include the extent to which pupil with specific need and vulnerability be keep safe . the safeguarding culture be also explore by speak to leader and staff about their work and the message that pupil receive through the curriculum . during last November ' s Westminster Hall debate on pupil with allergy , my hon . friend the Member for Rutland and Melton inform the House that she would write to all school in her constituency to ask they to adopt the voluntary school allergy code , co - create by the Benedict Blythe Foundation , the Independent Schools Bursars Association and the allergy team . take her lead , Ministers in the Department for Education instruct official to share a link to the code in our fortnightly email bulletin to school issue on 1 March . that communication also remind school leader of their duty concern pupil with allergy . for young child , the early year foundation stage framework set the standard that all register early year provider must meet for the learning , development and care of child from birth to age five . the EYFS state : " before a child be admit to the setting , you must obtain information about any special dietary requirement , preference and food allergy that the child have , and any special health requirement . " Providers must have a policy and procedure for administer medicine , and they must have system for obtain information about a child ' s medicine need and for keep this information up to date . training must be provide for staff where the administering of medicine require medical or technical knowledge . within all early year setting , there be a requirement for at least one person with a current paediatric first aid certificate to be on the premise and available at all time when child be present , and they must accompany child on outing . the PFA criterion be clear that the training should include be able to help a baby or child who be suffer from anaphylactic shock . last September , we change the adequate supervision requirement in the early year foundation stage to be explicit that adequate supervision while child be eat meal mean that child must always be in sight and hearing of an adult , rather than within sight or hearing . this will help practitioner to see the sign of an allergic reaction as soon as they be present , and it will allow they to act quickly . the new early year educator level 3 qualification criterion will also come into force in September , ensure that early year practitioner have an understanding of allergy and anaphylaxis . in April 2024 , the Department publish nutrition content on the " help for early year provider " online platform . the content include a section on allergy and anaphylaxis to help early year provider prevent allergic reaction , to recognise the sign and symptom of an allergic reaction or anaphylactic shock , and to know what to do if they occur . on 22 April , the Department launch a consultation on the safeguarding requirement in the EYFS . one of the proposal be the inclusion of a safe eating section , which include requirement for all staff to be aware of the symptom and treatment for allergy and anaphylaxis , and to obtain allergy action plan for child with allergy . we plan to publish our response to that consultation in the autumn . I have outline the various piece of legislation and guidance that cover allergy in school . give the complexity and individual nature of food allergy , the Government ' s view be that it would not be appropriate for the Department for Education to legislate for food provider to cater for all requirement . however , through legislation , the minimum standard for school food have be clearly set out . beyond that , headteacher , school governor and their caterer be well place to make decision about their school food policy that take into account local circumstance . I think we find ourselves in absolute agreement that school should own their own allergy policy . perhaps the Minister can reiterate from the Dispatch Box his request for school to bring forward allergy policy focus specifically on the child who have allergy . they need to hear a clear instruction from the Minister at the Dispatch Box . we be clearly in agreement : school should be lead on allergy policy in their school , but the freedom of information research do by the Benedict Blythe Foundation show that not enough of they do so . I agree . as I say early , understanding and awareness be vital , and communication be what give rise to they . that be why , follow my hon . friend ' s lead , we issue a communication by email . I totally accept that there will be more to do , and I be more than happy to carry on that conversation with she . overall , we feel that the exist mix of national requirement and local flexibility be the appropriate approach to this complex and extremely important issue , though we always keep the policy under review . we welcome feedback on how we can well support school ' implementation of they . I be pleased that DFE official now sit on the expert advisory group for allergy , convene by the Department for Health and Social Care , and the National Allergy Strategy Group , which recommend priority for allergy policy across Government . I encourage stakeholder to feed any idea and point on these issue to official via that route . I conclude by thank once again my hon . friend the Member for Rutland and Melton for bring forward this important debate . question put and agree to . House adjourn .