Speaker ' s Statement before we begin today ' s proceeding , I know the House will wish to join I in acknowledge that today mark 1 , 000 day since Russia launch its attack on Ukraine . we can be proud of the fact that this House have continue to stand with the people of Ukraine , who be fight and die for the ideal that underpin a peaceful , prosperous , stable and democratic world . the whole world be pay the cost of Russia ' s aggression but would pay even more if we stand by and allow it to succeed . our thought today be with the people of Ukraine , as well as with our colleague in the Ukrainian Parliament . Oral Answers to Questions Health and Social Care the Secretary of State be ask — Primary Care : Patient Access what assessment his Department have make of the adequacy of patient access to primary care service . what assessment his Department have make of the adequacy of patient access to primary care service . what assessment his Department have make of the adequacy of patient access to primary care service . Mr Speaker , I associate myself with your remark about the war in Ukraine . I know the whole House stand with Ukraine as it defend its freedom and democracy . this be precisely why the Prime Minister ' s leadership at the G20 , and in other international fora , be vital in stand up not just for our national interest but for our value across the world . over the past decade , the Conservatives ' mismanagement have leave the NHS with 1 , 400 few full - time equivalent GPs than in 2015 , hundred of practice closure , the loss of over 1 , 000 community pharmacy , and NHS dentistry a distant memory , which be why this Government take immediate action to employ 1 , 000 more gps . through the additional role reimbursement scheme , through the Chancellor ' s Budget measure and through our 10 - year plan , we will shift the focus of healthcare out of hospital and into the community . in my Makerfield constituency , Wigan council and my local NHS trust be work closely together to pioneer a health system focus on prevention and deliver through neighbourhood health centre , but they need help . what be the Secretary of State do to improve access to primary care , especially data - drive preventive care , through neighbourhood health centre ? I agree with my hon . friend on the importance of prevention at a local level . we be trialle neighbourhood health centre across the country to bring together a range of service , ensure that healthcare be close to home and that patient receive the care they deserve . this be part of our broad ambition to move towards a neighbourhood health service , with care deliver close to home . I would be delighted to meet my hon . friend to hear more about what be go well in his community and what further action we need to take . do the Secretary of State agree that access to primary care be hugely important to support accident and emergency department at hospital like the Princess Alexandra in Harlow ? do he also agree that access to primary care be about not just gps but dentist ? finally , what be the Government ' s plan to support dental surgery such as the aptly name Harlow dental surgery , which I visit last week ? my hon . friend be right that many of the pressure on our hospital , such as the Princess Alexandra in Harlow , be a result of pressure in other part of the health and social care system . it be outrageous that the big reason for five to nine - year - old present to hospital be tooth decay , which be why we need to get NHS dentistry back on its foot , along with the rest of the NHS . my hon . friend the Minister for Care and I have regularly meet the British Dental Association since the general election to consider how the dental contract can be reform to retain dentist and rebuild NHS dental service . in my local area of Cambridgeshire and Peterborough , GPs be report feeling increasingly burn out , with working condition become more extreme . the number of patient per fully qualified gp in my area have increase by nearly 400 since December 2016 , a high increase than the national average . can the Secretary of State tell I what his Department be do to make the situation more sustainable while improve access to primary care ? general practice be a value part of the NHS , and GPs be a vital part of our NHS family . in fact , they be deliver more appointment than ever before , and we recognise the significant pressure they face . at the same time , we know that patient be struggle to see their gp , which be why we have invest an additional £ 82 million into the arrs to recruit 1 , 000 more newly qualified gps this year . this will take pressure off general practice , and we will be announce further budget allocation in the not - too - distant future to set out what further support we will provide for general practice . I call the Chair of the Health and Social Care Committee . last week , I visit Summertown health centre . staff there implore I to say to the Government that the issue be not just more money — we welcome the £ 100 million that have be allocate for capital investment in primary care — but the snarl - up process at integrate care board level and get investment to the right place quickly . what will the Secretary of State ' s Government do to ensure icb deliver that money to where it be need , and fast ? the Chair of the Health and Social Care Committee be right that investment be vital , but so be reform . we task icb with lead the development of the new neighbourhood health service . we be remove their responsibility for performance management of trust in order to free up their focus , so that primary and community service have the attention that be desperately need . in the come week , we will be talk to the British Medical Association and the Royal College of General Practitioners about how we ensure the investment announce by the Chancellor lead to improve patient care and a reform neighbourhood health service . Goff ' s Oak , in my constituency of Broxbourne , have see a lot of development . what step be the Secretary of State take to ensure that GP surgery be deliver before hundred of new home be build ? of course we need to deliver both new home and GP surgery , but the previous Conservative Government deliver neither . we have a housing crisis and an NHS crisis in this country ; I would have think Conservative member might have show some humility and responsibility for those fact before challenge a Government who have be in office for only four month . in Cornwall , only 25 % of delay discharge from hospital be because of lack of social care package , with the remainder involve the significant degree of support need from primary and community NHS service . the Royal College of Nursing have point out that there have be a 45 % reduction in district nurse in the last decade , so what can the Government do to replace those essential role at a primary care level ? the hon . Gentleman be right . last weekend , I be up in Middlesbrough with local member , where we see a great example of hospital at home deliver by the community nursing team and the community health trust . we have to do a lot more in that space to ensure we provide care close to people ' home — indeed , often in the home — keep they out of hospital and close to home , which be well for they and well value for the taxpayer . I call the shadow Minister . the Royal College of General Practitioners have say the national insurance tax increase be expect to cost 2 . 2 million appointment . we know from answer to write question that have be submit that GPs , hospice and care home be not exempt from the increase , and will not find out until April what , if any , mitigation will be put in place , so cutback be now be plan . will the Secretary of State explain how his choice to tax GPs will increase gp access ? I can reassure health and care provider that we will be set out allocation long before April next year . I recognise that people need to plan ahead of the new financial year . when decide allocation , we take into account the range of pressure on different part of the system . People have hear what I have say already about the need to shift out of hospital into primary and community service . the shadow Minister talk about choice ; conservative Members seem to welcome the £ 26 billion investment , but oppose the mean of raise it . I be afraid they can not do both . if they support the investment , they need to support the way in which we raise the money ; if they do not support the way in which we raise the money , they need to spell out how they would raise it or be honest about the fact that if they be still in government , they would continue to preside over a mismanage decline . one gp describe the situation as " Schr ö dinger ' s primary care " : GPs be see as private contractor , so not exempt from the NI increase , but they be exempt from the small business relief because they be deem to be " public " . do the Department of Health team knowingly go along with the Treasury team ' s plan to tax primary care without mitigation , lead to cut ? or do it not understand or spot the complexity of what be go on , so mitigation have to be put in place now ? which be it ? I be terribly impolite ; I should have welcome the shadow Minister to his place in response to his first question . conservative Members seem to welcome the £ 26 billion investment and be happy to tell we how it should be spend , but they oppose the mean of raise it . they can not do all those thing . they need to be honest with the country : either they support the investment in the NHS or they say they would cut it . which be it ? NHS Hospital Equipment what recent assessment he have make of the adequacy of the condition of NHS hospital equipment . the Darzi review make it absolutely clear that the NHS have be starve of capital . it be 15 year behind the private sector in its use of technology and we have few scanner per person than in comparable country . that be why at the Budget the Chancellor announce an investment of £ 1 . 5 billion for capital funding , which will include investment for new artificial intelligence - enable scanner , which will help tackle that backlog . resident in Somerset , and in North Somerset , my part of the world , recognise the £ 70 million that have be grant for new radiotherapy machine , as announce in the Budget , which will fund up to 30 machine . however , 70 machine will pass their sell - by date — their 10 - year recommend life — by the end of this year . will the Secretary of State and the Minister agree to meet Radiotherapy UK , which want to highlight the huge cost benefit of have a more consistent , roll programme of machine maintenance and replacement in the NHS 10 - year plan ? the hon . Lady highlight the important matter of the lifetime of some of the machine , which we be finally address after the last 14 year of not address issue that include provide support to ensure that the machine work properly . official regularly meet Radiotherapy UK and the Department value its input . if there be specific incident that the hon . Lady wish to highlight , I be happy to respond to she . do the Minister agree that the NHS can not continue to rely on outdated and obsolete equipment ? it be ridiculous that GPs still use pager and hospital communicate with each other use fax machine . after 14 year of decline under the previous Government , will she commit to bring our NHS into the 21st century ? my hon . friend lay bare an important issue . we all know , and critically , staff know , that we be ask they to do the most incredible job with outdated technology . it be bad for staff and it be bad for patient . that be why move from an analogue to a digital system be crucial . I be fortunate to visit colleague at NHS England office up in Leeds last week to see some of the fantastic work they be do on the app . we will ensure that the NHS come into the 21st century . Mental Health Support what step he be take to improve mental health support service . Lord Darzi find that mental health waiting list have surge , with more than 100 , 000 child wait a year for their first appointment . that be why we will recruit 8 , 500 more mental health worker , provide access to mental health support in every school and roll out young future hub in every community . I be delighted to tell my hon . friend that a Bill to modernise the Mental Health Act 1983 be introduce in the other place on 6 November . that be a promise that we make before the election — a promise that we keep . I welcome the Minister ' s comment . my brother have very complex mental health need . we as a family know at first hand the difficulty not only of access the service and of the long waiting time , but the challenge of support staff who be not constantly on a churn and the lack of community - fund support service . our experience be no different to that of many other family . will the Minister meet I to discuss how we will make mental health service more accessible in community , invest more in preventive service and fund more community - base provision ? I will be pleased to meet my hon . friend . this Government think it be unacceptable that too many people be not receive the care that they deserve , and we know that wait for mental health service be far too long . we be determined to change that with the measure I set out in my opening . the Government have also introduce NHS 111 for mental health so that people who be in crisis or be concerned about a family member or love one can now call 111 and speak to a train mental health professional . facility such as leisure centre and swimming pool — like the Sovereign Centre in Eastbourne where I learn to swim — be critical in support people ' s mental health locally . will the Minister support I in put pressure on the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government to expand the criterion of the town fund to allow we to be able to spend it to invest in our leisure centre and sport and fitness facility for local people ? I be grateful to the hon . member for his question . we be a mission - lead Government and , of course , tackle health inequality be a job not just for the Department of Health and Social Care , but for all Government Departments . I will be very happy to raise the role that Ministers can play in improve mental health and wellbee in my bilateral with the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government . dental Training place : East of England what estimate he have make of the number of new dental training place need in the east of England . fourteen year of conservative neglect and incompetence have leave huge swathe of the east of England as dental desert . as part of our 10 - year plan , we will be work with NHS England to assess the need for more dental trainee in area such as the east of England where we know that many people be struggle to find an NHS dentist . I be aware of the University of East Anglia ' s plan to open a dental school and I recently meet mp from the east of England , include the hon . Gentleman , to discuss that process . I encourage the UEA to continue with its bid for a new dental school . the Minister well know that there be a lack of dentist in the east of England , because there be no undergraduate training facility . the near place be either Birmingham or London . he have kindly mention the University of East Anglia , which be ready to go with a new building under construction . it have wide cross - party support , as he also know from the meeting that he hold recently , so when will he make the announcement ? I thank the hon . gentleman for that follow - up question , but he will recall that , when we meet , I and my official make it clear to he that the UEA have not yet submit its bid for a dental school . in that meeting , we say : " please go back to the UEA and encourage they to submit that bid . when they do , we will look at it very carefully . " many of my constituent in Bedford be struggle to get an NHS dentist . I be also hear from those who have try to book an appointment only to discover that they have be remove from the NHS list without any warning . the Government have commit to improve the dental contract . in do so , will they ensure that dentist can no long drop people from their book — leave they without any access to care — without prior notice ? my hon . friend be right : we will reform the dental contract to rebuild dentistry in the long term and to increase access to NHS dental care , with a shift to focus on prevention and the retention of NHS dentist . we continue to meet representative from the British Dental Association and other representative of the sector to discuss how we can well deliver our share ambition to improve access for NHS dental patient . Health and Care staffing cost : Employer NI contribution what recent assessment he have make of the potential impact of propose change to employer national insurance contribution on staffing cost for health and care provider . the leadership show by the Chancellor have enable she and the Government to fix the foundation of the public finance and fill the £ 22 billion black hole leave by the previous Government . the decision that she take mean that she be able to provide this Department with an extra £ 26 billion and a real - term increase in core local government spending power by about 3 . 2 % . that be the right decision for the right reason in the national interest , and I be take into consideration pressure on all part of health and social care before make final allocation for the year ahead . in North East Fife , we have a particular issue with access to dental surgery , especially with the recent closure of a surgery in Leven . difficulty stem from recruitment from abroad as a result of visa change and also simply from practice go private and come out of the system . obviously , the NHS be devolve in Scotland , but do the Secretary of State agree that put staffing under further strain from increase national insurance contribution will only make thing bad for dentist ? what in his conversation be he do to ensure that dentist get the support that they need ? it be because the Chancellor take the decision that she do in the Budget that my Department have receive £ 26 billion to reform and improve health and social care . as I say before the general election , all part of the United Kingdom suffer under the previous Conservative Government , which be why I be sure that member from across Scotland will welcome the extra £ 1 . 5 billion this year and £ 3 . 4 billion next year — the big funding increase since devolution . I be sure that the SNP Government will welcome the increase , and they certainly have no excuse now for not act . fourteen year of neglect have leave hospice in a perilous condition . they be deal with the rise in national insurance contribution , pay and other cost pressure , so I welcome the fact that the Secretary of State be put in place measure to ensure that the funding recover . will he assure I that integrate care board not only will pass on that recovery from the increase cost to hospice , but will help they catch up from the tory year of neglect of the whole sector ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for her question . I be look carefully at the pressure on hospice . in fact , only last Friday I visit Saint Francis hospice , which serve my constituent and people right across east London and west and south Essex . I see at first hand the brilliant work it be do on end of life care , but also the pressure it be under , and I be take those pressure into account before decide allocation for the year ahead . I have try repeatedly through write parliamentary question to get an answer to this without success , so I will try ask it face to face : will the Secretary of State tell the House how much his Chancellor ' s change to national insurance contribution will cost the NHS ? the hon . member talk about the employer national insurance contribution as if they be a burden on the NHS . it be thank to the decision take by the Chancellor that we can invest £ 26 billion in health and social care . the Conservatives welcome the investment but oppose the mean of raise it . do they support the investment or not ? they can not duck the question ; they have to answer . the right hon . member speak of duck question , but it be worry that three week after the budget he still do not know , or will not tell the House , how much it will cost the NHS . of course , change to national insurance contribution affect not just the NHS directly , but supplier , contractor , charity and other NHS care provider . I know you be a great supporter of your local air ambulance service , Mr Speaker , as I be of the Lincs & Notts air ambulance , which now need to raise £ 70 , 000 extra just to fund this Government ' s ill - advise change to nic . that £ 70 , 000 be a lot of cake to sell , car to wash and fun run to complete , and that be just one example of pressure place on lifesave service right across the country . will the Minister confirm that he will meet the Chancellor , explain the disastrous effect of the policy and insist that she reverse it ? again , we have not yet announce how we be allocate the budget for the year ahead , but I remind the Conservatives that it be thank to the choice the Chancellor make in her Budget that she be able to invest £ 26 billion in health and social care . would they cut the £ 26 billion this Labour Government be invest in the NHS ? if not , how would they pay for it ? welcome to opposition . we come to the Liberal Democrat spokesperson . hospice provide essential care for people at the most difficult point of their life , and they be usually only partially fund by the NHS . Hospice UK say that real - term funding have fall by £ 47 million since 2022 , and hospice be struggle with this hike in national insurance contribution . Hope House child ' s hospice in North Shropshire estimate that it will cost £ 178 , 000 . will the Secretary of State commit to either exempting hospice from the NICs increase or ensure that they be fund to cover those additional cost ? I be grateful to the liberal Democrat spokesperson for her question . I pay tribute to the child ' s hospice in her constituency and , indeed , to Haven House child ' s hospice , which serve my constituency . and Derian House child ' s hospice . and indeed your very own local hospice , Mr Speaker — I be sure that will appear on the record . I be particularly thankful for the advocacy we have receive from Hospice UK and charity such as together for short life and other that be make their voice hear about the pressure on the system . I say to all hospice across the country that I be take those pressure into account before decide allocation for the year ahead , because I want to ensure that everyone , whatever their age , receive access to the timely and good - quality end of life care , palliative care and , of course , support for people with life - limit condition that all of they deserve . care sector : Staff Salaries what discussion he have have with Cabinet colleague on staff salary in the care sector . I be proud that the Chancellor raise the salary of hundred of thousand of care worker in the Budget . last month , the Government introduce legislation to deliver the first ever fair pay agreement for adult social care . while we be give care worker a pay rise , the Leader of the opposition be belittle their work as merely wipe bottom . I gently say to the conservative party that it be well to be wipe bottom than talk out of they . this be an important issue , and I be deal with ministerial colleague on it . accord to last month ' s Skills for Care report , most care worker be pay only a couple of penny above the national minimum wage , while the sector can not recruit and retain the people it need . will the Minister set out the timetable for establish the fair pay agreement and adult social care negotiating body , and will he give the House an assurance that the care trade union will be closely involve in its design ? we take quick action on the Employment Rights Bill , which include the fair pay agreement , within 100 day of take office . the consultation process on the negotiate body can begin only once the Bill have become an Act . we be engage widely with stakeholder , and I assure my hon . friend that union will play a central role in that process , but let we remember that , through the national living wage , we be give the lowest - pay full - time care worker a pay increase of £ 1 , 400 per year . one barrier to well staff salary in the care sector be the additional employer national insurance contribution . be the Minister and his colleague consider an exemption for GP practice , charity and hospice from national insurance employer contribution ? as my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care point out , when we win the general election on 4 July , we inherit public finance in their bad state since the second world war . through the Chancellor , we have take responsible action to deal with those issue . my right hon . friend the Secretary of State have also say that we be look at the Budget in the round , and we will report on that in due course . nhs dentist : access what assessment his Department have make of the adequacy of access to nhs dentist . what assessment his Department have make of the adequacy of access to nhs dentist . what assessment his Department have make of the adequacy of access to nhs dentist . after 14 year of Tory neglect and incompetence , NHS dentistry in England have be leave in a parlous state . Tooth decay be the most common reason why child age five to nine be admit to hospital , and 28 % of the country — 13 million people — have an unmet need for dentistry . rescue NHS dentistry will not happen overnight . we will expand the provision of urgent dental appointment across the country , and we be work with the sector to reform the dental contract in order to increase access and incentivise more NHS care . yesterday , I hear from a disabled constituent who have spend over a year try to find an NHS dentist , but without success . the only solution be to come to London for emergency treatment — that become a shockingly common story under the previous Government . as a first step , our integrate care board be put 12 extra dentist into Peterborough and the surround town to increase access . will the Minister update the House on progress and on how we will far improve access to NHS dentistry ? I be very pleased to hear about what my hon . friend ' s ICB be do . work with the dental sector , we will deliver measure to improve access , target area that need it most . those measure include 700 , 000 additional urgent appointment and reform of the dental contract . the golden hello scheme , which incentivise dentist to work in underserved area , be under way across the country , and dentist be also be offer a new patient premium to treat new patient . do the Minister agree that it be unacceptable that more than 40 , 000 people in Fife be not register with an NHS dentist ? will he share any learning from this Government ' s action to increase access to dentistry with his colleague in the Scottish Government , and urge they to fulfil their responsibility so that people in my constituency can get the dental treatment that they need ? responsibility for dental service in Scotland be of course a matter for the Scottish Government , but government across the UK work together to spread good practice and deliver on our common goal . the Scottish National party Government have an extra £ 1 . 5 billion this year , and £ 3 . 4 billion next year , through the Barnett formula . I hope that they will prioritise health , include dentistry , and undo some of the damage that they themselves have do to dentistry in Scotland . some 37 % of five - year - old in Weston - super - Mare have enamel or dental decay — a figure well above the national average . the Better Health North Somerset team do amazing work to promote good oral health , but regular dentist check - up be the oral health silver bullet . will the Minister explain and outline the work he be do to ensure that child in Weston and Worle and across the country get the dentistry service that they so desperately need ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to raise this vital issue . prevention be of course always well than cure , so I be very proud of the fact that we be introduce supervise toothbrushing for three to five - year - old in the most deprived community and where there be the most unmet need . we be also work to sort out the NHS contract so we can ensure that child get the care they need . have training locally at the University of East Anglia be important for my constituent , but in the short term , what step be the Minister take to speed up the process by which dentist get on the dental performer list , so that they can work in the NHS and not just privately ? be he also consider bring in a provisional overseas registration scheme ? I thank the hon . gentleman for that question . we be look at provisional registration . as I also mention to his hon . friend the Member for Broadland and Fakenham ( Jerome Mayhew ) , we be very open to the idea of a dental training school at the University of East Anglia . we need to ensure that we push on the full spectrum of all these measure , because there be a crisis in NHS dentistry and we need to get on and fix it . Toothless in Huntingdon in my constituency have write to I highlight that 36 % of patient under Cambridgeshire and Peterborough integrate care system no long have an NHS dentist . it want dental practice to provide access to those need emergency treatment and a priority pathway for referral from hospital department such as cardiology and oncology . to that extent , what step be be take in Huntingdonshire to improve dental access across rural Cambridgeshire ? how be the Government help the Cambridgeshire and Peterborough integrate care system to address those issue ? obviously the golden hello scheme for rural area be very important . we be push forward on that , and I be pleased to say that hundred have express interest in it and appointment be start on that basis . the hon . Gentleman be right about training place . as I have already mention , we be very open to establishment and institution come forward with proposal for that . we be live in a country where the big cause of hospital admission for five to nine - year - old be have their rotten tooth remove . that be a truly dickensian state of affair , and it need to be fix as a priority . early this year , I be at an orthodontist ' s practice that carry out work on behalf of the NHS . it say the issue be that when people be refer to it by their general dentist , it can not go on to do the orthodontic work because their tooth be in too bad a state , so they be refer back to the dentist , but they can not get in because of waiting list and issue . when we look at reform dental contract , will we look at orthodontic one too ? absolutely . as my right hon . friend the Secretary of State have say , we have already meet with the British Dental Association , and no issue be off the table . we absolutely need to look at orthodontist in the round as part of the contract negotiation , and we will certainly report back on that in due course . NHS Health and Social Care Reform what plan he have to reform NHS health and social care service . what plan he have to reform NHS health and social care service . before the election , we make it clear that investment and reform be need in the NHS . the Chancellor announce the investment in the Budget , and since the general election we have confirm the introduction of new league table of NHS provider , with high - perform provider be give great freedom over funding and flexibility . we be send turnaround team into struggle hospital , give the good performer great freedom over funding to modernise technology and equipment . we be create a new college of executive and clinical leadership that will help to attract , keep and support the good NHS leader . we be ban NHS trust from use agency to hire temporary entry - level worker in band 2 and 3 , such as healthcare assistant and domestic support worker . we be send crack team of top clinician to area with long waiting list and high economic inactivity to improve the productivity of their clinic , and we be run a gp red tape challenge to slash bureaucracy . I could go on , because this be a Government who be walk the talk on NHS reform . I think you already have , but there we be . I wish my right hon . friend would go on . irresponsible promise be make by the Opposition about capital investment in hospital and elective surgery across the country , include in the three Medway constituency . will my right hon . friend meet I and my hon . friend the Members for Rochester and Strood ( Lauren Edwards ) and for Gillingham and Rainham ( Naushabah Khan ) to discuss the much - need NHS investment in our area ? I would be delighted to meet my hon . friend and other member from across Medway to discuss the challenge that their part of the south - east face , and to explain why our predecessor make promise they could not keep , with timetable that be completely fictitious and funding that run out in March . I be really sorry for the way that community be let down by the previous Government . this government will not make the same mistake . I be grateful to my right hon . friend for his early answer . last week , I speak to one of my constituent , Norman Phillips , who have be an unpaid carer for his wife Ros for the past 18 year . like many unpaid carer across Stevenage , Norman have be put through absolute hell by the previous Tory Government ' s complete inaction on social care for over 14 year . do the Secretary of State agree that unpaid carer such as Norman play a vital role in provide care , and that unpaid carer need to be at the heart of any reform to the social care system — reform that be much need ? I , too , pay tribute to Norman and to family carer like he , who play such a vital role support love one . through the carer ' s allowance uplift in the Budget , the Chancellor announce the large increase to the weekly earning limit since the introduction of carer ' s allowance in 1976 . as well as that investment , we will have a 10 - year plan for social care , and I see the care workforce , care provider and family carer as all be important partner in build that plan . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s plan to reform the NHS , but may I caution against the idea that the answer be to fire more incompetent manager ? the problem be not bad management : it be micromanagement from the centre that see hospital manage with more than 100 target by NHS England , make ours one of the most micromanage healthcare system in the world . will the Secretary of State ' s plan allow manager more autonomy , help they to innovate , save money and improve care for patient ? I be happy to confirm that it be my view that , when there be too many target and everything be be measure , nothing end up be measure . we need to give more freedom and autonomy to good leader , include clinical leader and manager in the NHS who be come up with some of the good productivity gain in the system . that be why we have announce new support for , and investment in , the college of leadership for both clinical and executive leader in the NHS . I would be delighted to meet the right hon . gentleman to discuss those issue . he be a great Chair of the Health and Social Care Select Committee , but back in July , we see a great example of how we can improve thing by sack bad manager . one of the lesson from the pandemic be the importance of NHS communication . last week , I join victim of the sodium valproate scandal to hand in a petition . they try to download from the website the Medicines and Healthcare product Regulatory Agency ' s yellow card adverse drug reaction literature , but be unable to do so . will the Secretary of State look at this as a matter of urgency ? People need to be warn about the risk of take certain drug . as the hon . Gentleman know , I be a great champion of patient power , and a key part of give patient more power and control over their healthcare be well access to information . that be why , as well as improvement to the NHS app — which will provide far easy interaction with the NHS for patient — I be work with my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Science , Innovation and Technology to make sure all the information hold by Government be more accessible for our citizen , particularly where that include vital safety information and guidance , as the hon . Gentleman have mention . Autumn Budget Impact what assessment his Department have make of the potential impact of the autumn Budget 2024 on health and care service . thank to the decision that the Chancellor take in the Budget , we be able to provide an additional £ 26 billion to give the NHS the funding it need . this will support the NHS in England , enable it to deliver an extra 40 , 000 appointment a week to cut waiting list . of course , for my hon . friend and her constituent , the Budget have give Scotland the big real - term increase in funding through the Barnett formula since devolution begin . I hope the Scottish Government will use that investment to deliver improved service for the scottish people . the Labour party be the party of the NHS , and the significant additional investment announce in the recent Budget have reaffirm that . the Secretary of State have make it very clear in this question session that the benefit of that additional funding must be feel across the UK . will he join I in urge the Scottish Government to ensure that that funding reach the frontline and create the badly need additional appointment in GP , dental and hospital service that my constituent and people across Scotland badly need ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for her question . it be thank to the people of Scotland send 37 Labour Members of Parliament here at the last election — not only have they show that they value the NHS and be demand change , but they vote for change — that we be now deliver that change through the Budget . I say to Scottish Government Ministers that , as they know , I say before the election that all road lead to Westminster and that we all suffer under the Conservative Government , but this year that road be carry an extra £ 1 . 5 billion to the Scottish Government and next year it will carry an extra £ 3 . 4 billion to the Scottish Government , so they have no excuse not to act . approximately 220 , 000 people currently reside in the Solihull borough , and if Government planning reform go through , the number will increase significantly . my hon . friend the Member for Solihull West and Shirley ( Dr Shastri - Hurst ) and I have write to the Health Secretary about the need for infrastructure and A & E service at Solihull hospital . will he agree to meet we to see how we can make this Budget work for the people of Solihull ? I know , not least because of the mismanagement of the NHS during the last 14 year , that communitie right across the country , include the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent in Solihull , be struggle with poor service and crumble estate . we would be happy to receive representation from he , but he have to level with his constituent . if he want money to be spend in his community , he must support the investment and be honest about the fact that he support the mean of raise it . if he do not support the mean of raise it , he should tell we where that investment would come from . we have be very slow to get to topical , so let we see if we can speed it up . Dan Tomlinson will set a good example . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . this weekend , we launch the first in - person consultation as part of change . nhs . uk , the big national conversation about the future of the NHS we have ever see . we know that the Leader of the Opposition want a conversation about whether the NHS be free at the point of use , and I can tell she , from that first conversation , that no one agree with she . early this month , I visit Barnet hospital to see the way in which it be change the emergency care department so that more patient can be see more quickly , free up capacity in accident and emergency . what step be the Government take to ensure that trust such as the Royal Free and other across the country get the support they need , through investment and reform , to improve patient care ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for his question . the Royal Free hospital save my life when I go through kidney cancer , so it hold a special place in my heart . thank to the Chancellor ' s decision and the investment she put into the NHS at the Budget , and the reform my Department be deliver , we will deliver the change and improvement that his constituent and mine , and the rest of the country , deserve . I call the shadow Secretary of State . the Secretary of State know that every year , irrespective of which party be in government , winter be challenge for the NHS . possibly , it will be all the more so this year with the potential impact on old people ' s health of the loss of the winter fuel allowance by many . what winter preparedness step have he take , like previous government , to increase a & e capacity and to increase the number of bed this winter , and can he say by how many ? it be thank to this Government and the action we have take that , for the first time in three year , we go into winter without the spectre of national strike loom over the NHS , and with NHS staff on the frontline not the picket line . it be thank to the priority this Government have give to prevention that we have already deliver almost 15 million covid - 19 and flu vaccination , alongside the new RSV — respiratory syncytial virus — vaccination to help vulnerable group for the first time . the shadow Secretary of State mention the winter fuel allowance . this government be protect support for the poor pensioner to protect they not just this winter , but every winter , and over the come year the value of the pension will of course rise with the cost of living . I be grateful for that response but , just as my hon . friend have highlight in respect of the damaging impact of increase in employer national insurance contribution on GPs , hospice and care provider , I fear it be another example of the Government simply not answer the question and not have a plan yet . either the Government have not do their homework and , as with the impact of nic increase , they have not think this through and do not know , or bad , they do not care — which be it ? this Government be prepare for winter and we be already stand up the operational response to winter pressure . on funding , the right hon . Gentleman be in government just before the general election . be he say that his Government do not provide enough funding for the NHS this winter ? if not , why not ? if he do accept that it be enough money , he will surely welcome the extra investment that the Chancellor be put into the NHS from next year . what step be minister take to address the ongoing shortage of medication for attention deficit hyperactivity disorder , which have be go on for 18 month ? the Department have be work with supplier of medicine use to treat ADHD to seek commitment from they to address the issue , expedite delivery and boost supply . we be work with NHS England to approve the modelling for industry and communication regard ADHD medicine supply issue . we will continue to engage with industry to address the remain issue as quickly as possible . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the Conservatives ' disastrous legacy on dentistry mean that more than 4 . 4 million child have not see a dentist in the past year . in Shropshire , dentist continue to hand back their contract , include one in Wem in recent week . will the Minister outline his plan to reverse that terrible decline and ensure that the issue be address in rural area where there be dental desert ? there will be 700 , 000 extra urgent appointment , golden hello , and a prevention and supervise toothbrushing scheme for three to five - year - old . many of my constituent be worried that online GP appointment be too often use as a substitute for face - to - face consultation , which risk add pressure to NHS waiting list far down the line . will the Secretary of State reassure my constituent that they will receive timely , in - person GP access and the quality of care that they deserve ? we all know that general practice be under enormous pressure , and that will be a big part of this Government ' s agenda . I reassure my hon . friend that our view be that there should be patient choice , patient control and different course for different horse . I value online and over - the - phone appointment , but they will not be right for everyone on every occasion . patient should have a voice and a say . I recently meet a gp who be in the market to hire a new seven to eight session GP to meet demand . follow the Budget and the increase in national insurance contribution for employer , he can now only afford a three to four session GP . what advice do the Secretary of State have for my friend the GP ? I would say to GPs who be think about staff for the next financial year that they should hold tight and wait for funding allocation shortly , so that they can make informed decision about staffing and care for patient . on the doorstep in Bristol North East , people regularly talk to I about the difficulty they have get a gp appointment . will the Minister assure primary care service in my constituency , such as Kingswood health centre , that the Budget will help they and mark the first step in transform our NHS ? we have pledge to bring back the family doctor , and we have already invest an additional £ 82 million in the additional role reimbursement scheme to recruit 1 , 000 more newly qualified GPs in 2024 - 25 . we be also commit to fix the front door of the NHS , for example through £ 100 million of capital funding that be announce in the Budget . we be fully aware of the pressure , and we will set out further detail on funding allocation for next year in due course . will the Secretary of State give a clear date by which qr code will be incorporate into the NHS app at the point of care , thereby make the process fast and safe , as be highlight to I by Dr Steve Bright at the Windrush health centre in Witney ? I might resist the invitation to give a specific date today , but the hon . Gentleman make a valuable point about the ease of use of the NHS app , and I will write to he far on that point . usher syndrome be a rare inherit disease that can lead to both deafness and blindness . as chair of the Usher syndrome all - party parliamentary group , I have meet many of those who suffer from Usher syndrome . what assessment have the Department make of the adequacy of support for those suffering from Usher syndrome and their family member ? the UK rare disease framework aim to improve the life of people live with all rare disease . I be more than prepared to meet my hon . friend to look at the adequacy of support available to people with Usher syndrome . last Friday , I meet GPs at the Fairhill medical practice in north Kingston in my constituency . they have tell I that the increase in national insurance contribution will add £ 50 , 000 a year to their cost . can the Secretary of State tell I whether GPs can expect to see an across - the - board cut in the nic payable by GPs to help they manage to continue deliver service for family in the area ? we have not yet announce allocation for general practice for the year ahead , and we be take into account all the pressure that general practice be under . the renew focus on prevention in our health system be welcome , but under the previous Government , the public health grant that facilitate much of that work be cut by 28 % . have the Minister , in partnership with the Treasury , consider when we might be able to address that public health funding issue , which be essential to enable progress in prevention ? we will confirm the 2025 - 26 local authority public health grant allocation in due course . local government play a critical role in deliver the Government ' s health mission and drive action on the prevention of ill health . we be commit to work in partnership with local government to tackle the wide determinant of ill health . I have be shock this week by all the major GP group in my constituency detail their financial situation . they be all close to the edge and be consider the option of bankruptcy , redundancy or handing in their contract . what urgent respite can the Secretary of State give they ? I be in no doubt about the state that general practice be leave in by our conservative predecessor . that be why , in make decision about funding allocation for the year ahead , we be take into account all the pressure that general practice be under , as we clean up the mess leave by the Conservatives . in summer 2023 , I speak to Rachel , who suffer from endometriosis . she be tell that she might have to wait 18 month for urgent surgery . she be still wait . in fact , she have have the menopause induce to help tackle her symptom . can the Minister tell I what the Government be do to improve the diagnosis and treatment of woman , include Rachel , who have have to wait far too long ? my hon . friend make an excellent point on behalf of Rachel and many other woman suffer from this disease . we be look urgently at gynaecological waiting list . they be far too high , include for endometriosis . I welcome the new National Institute for Health and Care Excellence guideline . we will be look at woman ' s health hub and how they work , and future guideline will help woman to get a diagnosis more quickly and help with situation like Rachel ' s . respiratory health condition be one of the main driver of NHS winter pressure , yet only 32 % of asthma sufferer in Bath and across the country can access the most basic level of care . what will the Government do to improve access to basic level of care for the 68 % of asthma sufferer who be currently miss out ? NICE be review its guideline for the diagnosis , monitoring and management of chronic asthma , and an update version be due to be publish in late November 2024 . I be happy to meet the hon . Lady to discuss it far . woman with spinal cord injury face significant challenge in access core health service , include breast screening , cervical screening and gynaecological care . research show that woman with disability , include spinal cord issue , be 30 % less likely to attend routine breast screening appointment , in significant part due to the physical inaccessibility of the screening equipment . will the Minister meet I and representative of the all - party parliamentary group on spinal cord injury to discuss these unacceptable disparity and ensure that woman receive the equitable and accessible care they deserve ? my hon . friend highlight a shocking example of inaccessibility in these important service . I will make sure that the Department respond to he and that either I or a ministerial colleague meet he . ludlow community hospital in my constituency provide a great service for the local community , but it be restrict by its location and its building . there be a business model that would be more cost - effective in the long term that involve move the facility to the eco park . will the Secretary of State meet I , healthcare stakeholder and the league of friend in Ludlow to take that forward ? the hon . member be welcome to make representation to the Department for the capital investment that he be call for , but he should welcome the mean of provide it , which be the Chancellor ' s decision in the Budget . I welcome minister ' leadership in attack the record waiting time inherit from the Tories . will they in turn recognise Guy ' s and St Thomas ' effort to reduce delay , especially in the ear , nose and throat and paediatric spinal surgery team ? will the Secretary of State outline measure to protect our NHS from cyber - attack , which be another issue neglect by the last Government but be affect patient in Southwark ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for the question and pay tribute to the work be do by Guy ' s and St Thomas ' . he be right to raise cyber - security . that be why the capital investment announce by the Chancellor be welcome and necessary , and joint work across Government , include with security colleague and my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Science , Innovation and Technology , be vital to keep patient ' datum and information safe and to keep critical system run . when the Secretary of State review gp funding , will he also consider the burden that sit on GP practice when they have to hold the lease for their surgery and what role integrate care board could have in hold that risk , which be stop the recruitment of GPs to join practice as partner ? NHS England currently accept icb hold lease only as a last resort or by exception due to the significant capital require . while we know that be not the most effective use of ICB resource , it be an important safeguard . we be committed to fix the front door of the NHS by support GPs and icb through , for example , the £ 100 million of capital funding announce at the Budget for GP estate upgrade . my constituent Ollie Horobin ' s life have be completely transform after contract covid , leave he wheelchair - bind with a feeding tube and battling debilitate symptom every single day . his story be a stark reminder of the devastating impact that long covid can have . will the Minister commit to meet Ollie and I to hear about his experience at first hand , and prioritise further research into the cause , treatment and long - term impact of extreme long covid ? as somebody who still suffer from long covid , I know how debilitate and complex it can be , and I be committed to improve support for people affect by it . there be now more than 100 long covid service across England , and £ 57 million be be invest in long covid research . I recently co - chair a roundtable on strategy to stimulate further research into treatment . I be more than happy to meet my hon . Friend and Ollie for further discussion . opt - out testing for HIV at A & E have be a great success since it be announce last year , particularly in identify those who be not aware they have the disease and among difficult - to - reach community . can the Health Secretary confirm whether the programme will continue ? Opt - out HIV testing have be a great success so far . of course , we will make further announcement on its future in due course . I would like to say , as a former member of the HIV commission that make the representation to the previous Government , that he have I at a real advantage — or disadvantage , depend on the side of the spending fence . I very much welcome the approach take by the previous Government , which this Government plan to continue . will the Secretary of State explain what plan he have — if any — to limit the scope of practice of anaesthetic associate and physician associate , about whom there have be such publicity lately ? indeed there have . medical associate role can and do play a valuable role in free up other clinician ' time to do the thing that only they can do , but there be legitimate concern within the profession about scope of practice , doctor substitution and transparency for patient . we need to grip that and address it . we will have a further announcement to make about that shortly . south Green surgery in my constituency have be give notice by its landlord that it have to move by the end of March next year . will the Secretary of State meet I to see what we can do to ensure that other facility can be provide if available , or to do the good for those local patient ? that would be a matter for the right hon . Gentleman ' s ICB . I know that he be new to the area , so I be happy to make some introduction . my constituent Craig Eskrett be diagnose with motor neurone disease 12 month ago . he say that the service be there in the local NHS trust , but there be a distinct lack of co - ordination . will the Minister meet I to discuss what improvement can be make to co - ordinate those service for sufferer of MND ? my hon . friend raise a real issue about how we join up the whole of the patient journey . once diagnose , patient need appropriate treatment and wraparound care . I be more than happy to meet he and his constituent . at the weekend in Devon , I meet a psychiatric nurse who previously work in London and have be recruit to the south - west . she do not have a start date , and be still subject to routine check after waiting month . can the Secretary of State expedite these routine check , give waiting list for mental health ? absolutely . that be a good example of why investment need to be match with reform to speed thing up , improve productivity and get staff to the frontline , where they want to be . last week , the chief executive of forget I not child ' s hospice visit Parliament with local dad Steve , whose son be support by the hospice . the hospice provide vital service to family such as Steve ' s , but its service be at risk in the long term without sustainable funding , include the NHS England child ' s hospice grant . can the Health Secretary take urgent step to improve funding for hospice ? I be grateful for the step that my hon . friend be take to make representation on behalf of her local child ' s hospice , both on the Floor of the House and outside the Chamber . I recognise the pressure she describe . we be determined to help hospice to overcome they . can the Secretary of State confirm what assessment have be make of the number of woman wait for endometriosis surgery across the United Kingdom ? what have be do to reduce waiting list ? as my hon . friend the Minister for Secondary Care say , the wait for woman with common condition such as endometriosis be far too long . that be why we be take step to cut waiting time and stop the merry - go - round of repeat visit to the same clinician to get the same answer , until someone finally listen to what a woman have to say . point of order on a point of order , Mr Speaker . I seek your guidance about how this House can obtain answer from the Government , particularly the Department of Health and Social Care . on Budget day I table a question ask what the change to national insurance contribution would cost the NHS both directly and indirectly . on 4 November I get a hold answer , and on 11 November I be give an answer that do not answer the question . on 8 November I table a question to break it down into small piece . last night I receive yet another hold answer . we have have very little clarity from the Minister this morning . be we truly suppose to believe that , three week after their own Budget , which the Government take almost four month to prepare , they do not know or can not quantify its effect ? [ interruption . ] surely , it be a discourtesy not to provide the House with an answer to a write question , and incompetent not to know the answer — order . first of all , a point of order be mean to be short . and I remind member who be join in that I do not need any help . could you please advise I , Mr Speaker , on how to get to the truth , so that this House and my constituent can understand the magnitude of the effect of these national insurance contribution change on the NHS ? all hon . member on all side of the House be entitle to answer . I be sure that Government Members have hear what have be say about the failure to answer within time , and I be sure that it will be rectify . we will leave the point of order at that . jail of Hong Kong pro - democracy activist ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs if he will make a statement on the Government ' s response to the jailing of pro - democracy activist in Hong Kong . I thank the right hon . member for her question on this important matter , and I welcome she to her new role . it be a real pleasure to be across the Chamber from she this morning . I be glad to reassure the right hon . Lady that my colleague the Minister for the Indo - Pacific , the Under - Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs , my hon . friend the Member for Hornsey and Friern Barnet ( Catherine West ) , have issue a statement on the verdict . she make clear that China ' s imposition of the national security law in Hong Kong have erode the right and freedom of Hongkongers . she make clear that the sentencing decision be a clear demonstration of the Hong Kong authority ' s use of the NSL to criminalise political dissent . as she say , the so - call NSL45 be guilty only of exercise their right as guarantee under the international covenant on civil and political right and basic law , and of exercise their right to freedom of speech , assembly and political participation . China ' s imposition of the NSL in Hong Kong have erode the right and freedom of Hongkongers , and the UK Government will always stand up for the people of Hong Kong . the jailing of 45 pro - democracy campaigner in Hong Kong under the draconian national security law be appal . it be a serious blow to freedom in Hong Kong . the harsh application of this disturbing law to suppress people in Hong Kong can not go unanswered . in government , my party consistently champion for that law to be repeal , and we give safe route for british national overseas in need of protection . I be proud to have establish that scheme as the then Home Secretary . we also publish report twice a year on the situation in Hong Kong to raise our grave concern about the erosion of freedom with the chinese authority and at the United Nations . yesterday , the Prime Minister meet President Xi and say he want a respectful relationship where both country try to avoid surprise . he even confirm that he have call in the application for the new chinese embassy . but less than 24 hour later , the sino - british declaration have be trample on yet again , with the sentencing of 45 pro - democracy campaigner . where do that leave the Government ' s reset with Beijing ? do the Prime Minister actually secure any commitment on Hong Kong yesterday ? will the Prime Minister now be hold further conversation with President Xi to convey his concern about this appalling jail ? why do the Minister for the Indo - Pacific this morning not call , in her statement , for the repeal of the national security law ? the official no . 10 read - out of the Prime Minister ' s meeting with President Xi fail to mention Jimmy Lai ' s case . we understand the Prime Minister do raise concern , but that be not enough . do he call for Jimmy Lai to be release and for an end to his politically motivated trial ? a yes or no answer be need , because there be an important distinction between the two . the UK have an historic and moral commitment to the people of Hong Kong . we must stand up for their right under the international covenant on civil and political right and basic law . the Government must provide the mettle need to handle the relationship with China , to stand up for the freedom and democracy of Hong Kong , and to raise their game . the Government absolutely agree about the historic relationship between the UK and Hong Kong and the current incredibly strong and important relationship . in opposition , my party rightly support the measure for british national overseas . we have be crystal clear in our view on yesterday ' s sentencing . I repeat that it be a clear demonstration of the Hong Kong authority ' s use of the NSL to criminalise political dissent . respectfully , I have to say to the right hon . Lady that when she seek to lecture the new Government on our approach to China she should be aware of what we see over the past 14 year : a wild oscillation in policy towards China that go from the golden era period right through , finally , to a complete lack of engagement that be out of step with our partner , include the US , France and Germany , which be have those conversation . the new Government have be determine to have those conversation . the right hon . Lady refer to the Prime Minister ' s meeting , where he make very clear his concern about human right issue . he do raise Jimmy Lai ' s case . that be very clear from the footage of that meeting . if she have not see it , I respectfully encourage she to look at it . we will continue to raise human right issue as part of our consistent approach to China . I call the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee . the verdict and sentence of the 45 be , like the 2020 national security law itself and the treatment of Jimmy Lai , clear violation of the sino - british joint declaration on Hong Kong . follow the meeting between President Xi and the Prime Minister , will my right hon . friend please share with the House what step the Government plan to take to ensure that the joint declaration be adhere to ? I be grateful to my right hon . friend for the work that she be undertake on this matter through her leadership of the Select Committee . the UK Government have be very clear about these issue . the right hon . Lady rightly mention the case of the british national Jimmy Lai , whose trial will resume tomorrow and whose case be a priority for the UK Government . the Foreign Secretary raise it during his first meeting with China ' s Foreign Minister , Wang Yi , at the summit of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations on 26 July , and , as I have say , the Prime Minister also raise it during his engagement a few day ago . we will continue to call on the Hong Kong authority to end their politically motivate prosecution and release Jimmy Lai immediately , and we will continue to press for consular access and , indeed , exert pressure in relation to the other human right issue that be of such concern to everyone in the House . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . we be deeply concerned by the sentencing of the NSL45 . Beijing ' s assault on fundamental liberty in Hong Kong — libertie that it be oblige to preserve under the joint declaration — continue . we have a moral duty to stand with Hongkongers , not least Jimmy Lai . I meet his son Sebastian last week . his father have be hold for in solitary confinement for more than four year , despite a serious health condition . do the Minister understand that meet Chinese Ministers , as the Foreign Secretary and the Prime Minister have in the last month , without set out any consequence give China the green light to continue ? we see under the Conservatives that this passive approach yield no result , so do the Minister agree that there should be no further ministerial meeting until these human right abuse be address , and specifically , do she agree that there should be no visit by the Chancellor to Beijing until Jimmy Lai be release ? the Foreign Secretary have also meet the family of Jimmy Lai and , like all of we on this side of the House , be deeply concerned about his situation . Jimmy Lai be , of course , 76 year old , and there be deep concern about his welfare . the UK be absolutely clear about the fact that he must be release immediately . I have to say , however , that I do not agree in any way with the hon . Gentleman ' s characterisation of the current UK Government ' s approach . during the latter year of the previous Government we see what be arguably a passive approach and a lack of engagement , with no meeting and visit , and that be not the right approach to take . it follow the golden era when there be a very different approach — an approach , some would say , that be not clear - eyed . the current Government be instead be consistent . we be engage where it be necessary to challenge as well as engage where it be necessary to compete and , indeed , to co - operate . that be the right approach when it come to these matter of human right , as well as our relationship with China more broadly . as chair of the all - party parliamentary group on Hong Kong , I thank Ministers for their effort and recognise the effort of the Prime Minister . however , after nearly four year in solitary confinement for Jimmy Lai and with a trial begin in a court that we know will only ever find he guilty , at what point do the delicate diplomacy have to give way to something more like a demand for his freedom ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for his recognition of that engagement . as I mention a few moment ago , the UK Government be deeply concerned about Jimmy Lai ' s situation , but we have be crystal clear — and that include the clarity provide by the Prime Minister , which , in respect of this issue as well as other , be very much in evidence during his meeting at the G20 . I have sit watch both government on this one , and I do not think that any Government have the right to accuse the party that be formerly in power and talk about what it get wrong , because that Government get it all wrong and this one be get it all wrong as well . the key point be this . the Minister have refer to all those who have be incarcerate but particularly to Jimmy Lai , who be in solitary confinement . yesterday , when the Prime Minister rightly start to raise the issue of Jimmy Lai and human right , all the journalist be clear out of the room straightaway because the Chinese Government do not want they to hear what he be say . just before that meeting , President Xi say that China would " brook no interference " when it come to democracy and human right , and that be one of his four red line . I put this question simply to the Minister : do she not think that without some kind of sanction , China will go on and on ? America have sanction many senior official in Hong Kong for these abuse , and we have sanction none . do she not think it be time for we to say , " we will sanction someone if you do not stop " ? I believe it be appropriate to make relative judgment so that we can assess the right way forward for the UK ' s relationship with China . that be why the UK Government be conduct an audit of our relationship with China so that we can have a consistent approach . we believe that be incredibly important , so I be afraid that I respectfully do not agree with the right hon . Gentleman . I have a ringside seat for some of the action of the previous Government during the golden era , and for what be suggest then around trade protection . we need to move forward with a more clear - eyed approach , and the UK Government could not have be clear on these matter of human right , include the Prime Minister himself , as the right hon . Gentleman just acknowledge . on sanction , he will understand , of course , that I will not speculate on future designation , as to do so could reduce their impact , but I can reassure he that the fcdo continue to keep potential sanction designation under close review . over 5 , 000 Hong Kong family have settle in read over the past few year , include in my constituency , and I have stand alongside Hong Kong activist in peaceful demonstration here in the UK . the onerous sentencing of pro - democracy activist in Hong Kong will give people a broad reason to fear transnational repression and continue harassment here in the UK . can the Minister assure we that she will work to upkeep not only the BNO visa programme and the path to citizenship , but the civil liberty of Hongkongers here in the UK who may be at risk of transnational repression ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise this issue . I have read her fascinating book , which cover human right in China , and she be clearly an expert on these matter , as well as have constituency experience . the UK Government ' s view be that any form of harassment be unacceptable and that political freedom must be retain , include in the UK and , above all , for bno . we will continue to ensure that that be the case . in 2023 the Hong Kong police issue arrest warrant for eight overseas activist under the national security law . what be minister do to challenge the extraterritorial reach of the national security law ? we be very clear , as be the previous Government , at the time of the passage of that law . we believe it be incredibly important that people in Hong Kong and beyond be able to exercise political right and , indeed , to participate politically . all that the group of individual who have just be sentence be do be exercise their right to political participation . we will resolutely defend that right , include in the UK and elsewhere . I look forward to the Minister ' s report on the audit of the relationship with China and of the continuum of action , from sanction onwards , that the Government be look at . in the meantime , may I ask the Minister to raise with the Chinese Government the case of Carol Ng Man - yee , who be a colleague of mine in Unite and a Labour party member ? she be involve in organise for Unite in the dispute with British Airways over the year , and she become president of the Hong Kong Confederation of Trade Unions . she stand in the primary and lose , but then take no further action . she be sentence to four year and five month . may I ask the Government to raise her case , and particularly the need for she to have visit from her family and her trade union rep , so that we can impress upon the chinese Government that , in addition to our lobbying for her release , we need to ensure that there be humanitarian treatment of such prisoner ? I be grateful to my right hon . friend for his support for the Government ' s ongoing audit of our relationship with China , and for the information that he have provide about one of the individual who have be sentence in China . I be aware that an australian citizen be among those who have be sentence , but I be not aware of the information provide by my right hon . friend about his colleague who have be sentence for her work in the UK . it be very helpful to be aware of that , and I would be grateful if he send I more information about this matter . today I bring together 118 parliamentarian from 24 country and the EU to call for the chinese Communist party to immediately release Jimmy Lai . it be extraordinary for the Prime Minister to meet Xi Jinping in the same week that Jimmy ' s sham trial resume , yet the Prime Minister use just 13 word in support of Jimmy ' s cause in his meeting with Xi — and no , he do not call for Jimmy ' s release ; he just mention his poor health . what we learn be that the Government have call in plan for a new chinese Communist party mega - embassy as a favour to Xi , and at his request . why ? I be sure that the hon . Lady , with her considerable experience , will be well aware of the fact that the Prime Minister be at the G20 leader ’ summit , which every member of the G20 attend . I be sure that she will be aware of how these meeting work . on the embassy to which she refer , it be standard for application to be call in if they affect other government . call in the application should not be take as any indication of our view on the merit of the scheme . as this case will be determine by Ministers in the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government , it would not be appropriate for I to comment far . I be pleased to sign the letter from parliamentarian of 24 country that the hon . member for Rutland and Stamford ( Alicia Kearns ) just mention , and I thank the Minister for confirm that a meeting take place with Sebastien and the Foreign Secretary . can the Minister outline how we will work with other country in a concerted , co - ordinated effort ? as we have hear , many of they have individual in arbitrary detention in Hong Kong . how can we co - ordinate across those country to get the release of activist such as Jimmy Lai ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise the need for co - ordination . obviously , there have be co - ordination among parliamentarian , which have be very positive to see , and the UK Government will continue to co - operate with other on these issue . we have also work with other country ' government on case involve dual national . I thank the hon . member for Rutland and Stamford ( Alicia Kearns ) for organise a powerful letter , and I be glad to be able to put my name on it . give the concession that be give to China by the Prime Minister and the particular responsibility that we have to Hong Kong , what do the Prime Minister get out of the meeting ? can the Minister tell we the read - out from the Prime Minister , and when will she publish her audit ? follow the question from the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) , will the audit include the option of sanction ? I be grateful to the hon . member for his question . the read - out can be easily access . I will not read out all of it , but I will underline the fact that it make it very clear that the Prime Minister say that he want to engage " honestly and frankly " on those area where we have different perspective , include Hong Kong , human right and Russia ' s war in Ukraine . that be take directly from the read - out of the meeting . as I say , there be also footage of it , which the hon . Gentleman can easily access . on sanction , I refer he to my previous response . so long as we be limited to say how cross we all be about our different perspective and the Minister keep sanction under review , China will take not a blind bit of notice , will it ? the right hon . Gentleman will be aware , I hope , that go into detail about sanction in advance be extremely problematic for the entire sanction system — it would reduce its effectiveness — which be why government of all complexion do not comment on future designation . this be a bad day for human right , but for the Hongkongers live in my constituency it be a frightening day . beyond the broad reassurance that the Minister have already give , what specific action will the Government take to protect Hongkongers live in the UK from state surveillance ? I recognise the concern that will be cause by this matter , as articulate by my hon . friend the Member for Earley and Woodley ( Yuan Yang ) . the UK Government be absolutely resolute in our determination to ensure that bno be able to live their life freely , and without prejudice or fear , in our country . we remain absolutely committed to uphold their human right , and we will continue to do so . if there be specific instance of concern , I would be grateful if the hon . Gentleman inform I of they . my constituent and friend , Sir Henry Keswick , who die early this month , be for many year the chairman of Jardine Matheson . he be a great believer in the opportunity for good relation between this country and China . there be an awful inevitability in the fact that , the day after the Prime Minister meet the chinese President and declare a new era of positive relation , the sino - british declaration be comprehensively breach . do the pragmatic relationship that the Prime Minister think he can have with China include get assurance that the national security law will not jeopardise the interest and welfare of british business and employee work in Hong Kong ? I would like to communicate my regret at the passing of the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent , who seem to have have great expertise and engagement on these issue . the Prime Minister be very clear that while the UK will seek to co - operate with China on area of mutual interest , we will also compete , and indeed challenge , where we must . that be explicit in his message , as it have be from day one of the new Government . that be why we be conduct the audit — to ensure consistency towards China on all issue across Government . it be clear that any Hongkonger who cross the chinese Communist party face grave risk . will the Government update the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office guideline on overseas business risk to include more detailed information on the risk pose to business by the Hong Kong national security law , particularly article 23 ? my Department keep all form of guidance continuously under review . that include guidance for business people and , of course , for traveller . that be the case for Hong Kong , as for every other location where brit might be operate . in those determination , we will ensure that we look at a whole range of factor cover personal safety and legal risk . I thank my right hon . friend for her statement . like other speaker in this Chamber , I have a large Hong Kong community in my constituency , in Colindale , and that community be very worried about transnational repression . will the Minister meet I and other mp to discuss this issue ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise the concern of his constituent . such concern have indeed be articulate by other in this Chamber . either the Minister for the Indo - Pacific , the hon . member for Hornsey and Friern Barnet ( Catherine West ) , or I would be delighted to meet he to discuss this . last month , the Foreign Secretary tell the House that he have make the release of Jimmy Lai his priority , yet the official Downing Street read - out of the Prime Minister ' s meeting with President Xi just say that they discuss " different perspective " on human right , and do not even mention Jimmy Lai by name . how can the release of Jimmy Lai be a Government priority if , on the eve of his show trial , the Prime Minister ' s official read - out can not even mention his name , after he meet the man responsible for his arbitrary detention ? I would respectfully refer the hon . gentleman to the footage , which be widely available and which make the point extremely clear . I be sure that the right hon . Lady will gather the frustration that we all have , on both side of the House , about what be go on ; she probably share it . what step can she take with the chinese Government to address what can only be see as political lawfare , give that our Prime Minister seem to have some access to the chinese President ? do the Minister agree that we can not sit back while 47 people be find guilty of nothing more than propose candidate for a democratic election , and that we be watch the death of any pretence of democracy in Hong Kong ? the UK Government be not sit back . we be stand up , and we be be very clear indeed about our position . I mention early the clarity with which the Minister for the Indo - Pacific have state the UK Government ' s position . that follow engagement on these question from my right hon . friend the Foreign Secretary , who be now beside I on the Front Bench , and of course from the Prime Minister . it be incredibly important that we have a Government who raise these matter directly with the chinese Government . it be arguable that we have a bit of a vacuum in that respect over the few month prior to the election , but that be something we be determined to rectify . Ukraine : 1 , 000 day with permission , Mr Speaker , I will make a statement on Ukraine . it have be 1 , 000 day since Russia ' s full - scale invasion stun the world — 1 , 000 day in which ukrainian bravery have inspire the world , and 1 , 000 day whose horror and bloodshed have dismay the world . this war matter greatly for Britain and the global order , but first and foremost we must reflect on what it mean for Ukrainians . today , child mourn lose parent , parent mourn lost child , family live with constant fear , and individual bear scar that will never truly heal , so I say to his Excellency the ukrainian ambassador in London and to the ukrainian people : today , as on every one of the last 1 , 000 day , you be in our thought and prayer . of course , Ukrainians need not just word but action , and this Government have not waver . we have step up support to Ukraine , we have ramp up the pressure on Russia , and we have make it clear to the world just what be at stake . in our first week in office , my right hon . friend the Prime Minister confirm that we would provide £ 3 billion a year in military aid this year , next year and every year that it be need . that include what my right hon . friend the Defence Secretary have announce today . there be more funding for Ukraine ' s navy and for drone , and the extension of Operation Interflex , which have train more than 50 , 000 ukrainian troop to date . I have also increase non - military support . this financial year , we will give at least £ 250 million in bilateral assistance , include for work to protect the ukrainian power grid , which just this weekend suffer another russian onslaught . crucially , our bilateral support , both military and non - military , will be great this financial year than in any previous financial year since the war begin . let I pay tribute to the Opposition for their leadership on these issue when they be in office , because the truth be that this House have be able to speak on Ukraine with one voice , and long may that continue . that be not all that we have do . we have also be find creative way to bolster the ukrainian economy far . we have bring the UK - Ukraine digital trade deal into force , so that Ukraine benefit from cheap and quick trade . UK Export Finance have provide over £ 500 million in loan guarantee , include for Ukraine ' s own defence industry . British International Investment be work with the Ukrainian Bank of Reconstruction and Development to support ukrainian trade . by the end of this year , we will have deploy a further $ 484 million in World Bank loan guarantee . tomorrow , this House will debate a Bill confirm a new £ 2 . 26 billion loan to Ukraine as part of a G7 package of $ 50 billion . this extraordinary revenue acceleration scheme will sustain Ukraine in the fight , and be all pay for by the profit from frozen russian asset . I have make it my personal mission to do all that I can to constrain the Kremlin . since July , we have sanction almost 40 vessel in Putin ' s shadow fleet of oil tanker , bar they from our port and deny they access to our maritime service . we have sanction firm that supply Russia ' s military industrial complex , include chinese firm send critical component for drone . we have sanction cyber - criminal from the aptly name Evil Corp , russian troop who have use chemical weapon on the battlefield , and mercenary responsible for destabilise Africa . we have take further action this week . yesterday , in response to Iran ' s transfer of ballistic missile to Russia , I impose more sanction , include on Iran Air . today , I be announce measure against those monster who have forcibly deport ukrainian child for attempt indoctrination by the Kremlin . I be proud of all that this Government have do to support Ukraine , proud of the unity that the House have show on this issue , and proud that we have show that Britain will remain Ukraine ' s staunch friend , both throughout this war and in the peace that follow , but we be always strong when we work with other . I be also proud of what we have do to rally international support for Ukraine . I visit Ukraine with US Secretary of State Tony Blinken — the first such joint visit to any country in over a decade . I discuss Ukraine with the EU Foreign Affairs Council , mark the first appearance by a UK Foreign Secretary at a regular council meeting since our EU exit . yesterday , I chair a meeting of the United Nations Security Council on Ukraine , and just this morning , I join a meeting of close european ally to discuss how we can bolster our support for Ukraine in the come month . we be stress three fundamental truth about the war in all our discussion with ally and partner across the globe . first , Ukraine ' s cause be just . it be Putin who choose to invade a sovereign country that pose no threat to Russia ; it be Putin who disregard the UN charter ; it be Putin who try to turn back the clock to an age of empire building , when might make right and ordinary people suffer the consequence ; and it be Putin and his ally who be recklessly escalate this war , with iranian ballistic missile be use to strike ukrainian city , and north korean troop be send to attack ukrainian soldier . when we support Ukraine , we be not just aid its fight for freedom ; we be also contribute to our fight for our freedom — the freedom of all state , all over the world , to choose their own destiny and future . the second truth be that Putin ' s war be not , in fact , go that well . Russia be almost 1 , 000 day into a war that it think would end in day , and we should never forget that . Russia have suffer record casualty in the past two month , with the number kill or injure due to exceed 1 million next year . Russia be slash welfare payment and raise interest rate to level not see in decade , all to fund more arm , and it have have to turn to Tehran and Pyongyang , as reserve of Soviet - era equipment and target for Kremlin press gang run low . that be not sustainable . the war be cost Putin dearly — all in a fight for land to which Russia have absolutely no right , a fight for which the russian people be pay an enormous price . the final truth be that Putin have no interest in a just peace . it be 1 , 000 day since his full - scale invasion , over 10 year since he first seize Crimea and sponsor insurrection in Donbas , and even long since he have seek to meddle in ukrainian affair , all to further his own interest . he have a track record of violate past agreement . he show no sign of want peace . he would seek to exploit any pause in fighting to win his troop a respite before resume hostility , as he do after the fail Minsk talk . I underline these truth because they must inform our strategy . if we want to see peace restore in Europe , we need Putin to see that there be no route to military victory . we need to make the price that he pay for his senseless war even higher . we need to remember that the price that we would pay for his victory would be high still . we need Ukraine to stay strong , so Ukraine need we to stay strong by its side . that be what this House want we to do ; that be what this Government will do ; and that be what we call on our ally to do . Slava Ukraini ! I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Foreign Secretary . I be grateful to the Foreign Secretary for advance sight of his statement and , importantly , to the Government for make time to acknowledge and mark this tragic and terrible anniversary . like so many in this House , I remember the early morning of that dark day in February 2022 , 1 , 000 day ago . as Home Secretary at the time , I recall the early - morning call notify I of Putin ' s illegal invasion of Ukraine . it be a day we have all fear , have see russian troop gather close to the border for several week beforehand , and indeed over the previous decade , since the invasion of Crimea and Russia ' s support for the separatist in Donbas . the sovereign territory of a european nation have be violate , and as the Foreign Secretary say , we have all watch the horror unfold over the last 1 , 000 day . in those early day , we see the russian military machine advance deep into ukrainian territory . I pay tribute to the heroism , courage and bravery of the ukrainian armed force and the ukrainian people , who have proudly defend their sovereign territory . let we be in no doubt that Putin expect Ukraine to capitulate and for its Government to fall . he think he could bully his way into Ukraine ' s territory . instead , President Zelensky and the ukrainian people have bravely stand tall . they have fight on , and they be fight every day . the cost to Russia have be catastrophic . Ukrainians be not just fight for their country ; they be fight for our share value of freedom , democracy , sovereignty and fundamental right . we should be proud that ever since russian troop cross the border , and before , this Parliament have stand shoulder to shoulder with our ukrainian friend . Mr Speaker , you will recall that , in 2022 , the entire machinery of government mobilise to support Ukraine . to this day , that cross - party support have be pivotal . we create safe route to enable 20 , 000 - plus Ukrainians to come to our country , and the Ministry of Defence , under Ben Wallace , be one of the first to supply weapon and key capability . we train ukrainian troop in this country , and we sign the security co - operation agreement that the Foreign Secretary mention . we announce a multibillion - pound funding package , too . the then Prime Minister , Boris Johnson , fly the flag for Ukraine across the world , make the case , impose sanction on Russia , persuade other and fight the cause of freedom . we stand shoulder to shoulder with the Government in every single effort . the commitment have be solid as we have work unstintingly with all our partner . I see the devastation when I meet Ukrainians on the polish border who be flee the conflict , and I know that many member have visit Ukraine and meet family over the last 1 , 000 day . we have all be touch by the personal horror story of loss and grief from people , include child , whose life have be shatter . our thought be with they . it be a sobering and stark reminder that , although the modern world have deliver so much progress for humankind , unreconstructed tyrant be inflict misery beyond comprehension with their contempt for human dignity , democracy and the rule of law . we see that so clearly over the weekend , with the devastating wave of attack unleash by Putin . I have a few question for the Foreign Secretary . will he confirm that we will continue to provide all the resource we can from our own stock , and that we will work with our NATO ally to ensure that equivalent equipment be available for Ukraine if we do not progress with specific capability ourselves ? NATO country , as we know , be able to leverage a collective gdp that be 20 time great than Russia ' s , and a combine defence inventory many time large than the Kremlin ' s , so Russia ' s victory in this war be not inevitable . the Defence Secretary be sit on the Front Bench , and he will have view on this , but I would welcome an indication on what step the Government will take to replenish our stock . do the Foreign Secretary , on behalf of the Government , agree that this show why it be important that we have a clear pathway to spend 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence by 2030 ? beyond the provision of lethal aid and capability , can he give an update on his diplomatic activity to far isolate Russia and to address the influx of north korean troop ? we welcome this week ' s announcement on sanction Iran for support the russian war effort , and we must pursue those sanction with vigour . we seek assurance that the Government will continue to review the measure on people and entity within the scope of sanction , so that we can do more to prosecute Russia ' s role in this conflict . will the Foreign Secretary outline the approach that will be take to engage with the new US Administration more widely , with our ally , to back Ukraine ? it be vital that this House stand united . as we mark 1 , 000 day of this war , we must ensure we continue to stand shoulder to shoulder on the side of freedom . Slava Ukraini ! this be my first opportunity to congratulate the right hon . Lady on take up her post as shadow Foreign Secretary . we will probably disagree occasionally across the Dispatch Box about a few thing , but I hope that we will never disagree on the support that we have to give to Ukraine . her response to my statement underline the unity of the House . the right hon . Lady be right to recall the mobilisation of the last government back in 2022 . I be glad she remind the House about the way british people have be prepare to open their home in record number to so many Ukrainians , and about her leadership of the Home Office at that time . she be also right to raise our military - industrial capacity . I assure she that since come into office , my right hon . friend the Defence Secretary have make it his business to get underneath the bonnet of how we procure , contract and ensure innovation . british support be drive immense innovation in Ukraine , which the Defence Secretary and I have be able to see close up . it be something like a Blitz spirit , which be quite incredible ; it be a whole - nation effort . work in partnership can also drive innovation in our own system . the right hon . Lady raise , quite rightly , defence spending . she will know that there be still country in Europe and beyond that be not spend the 2 % that be necessary . we urge they to do that . successive US president , long before Donald Trump , have be raise that as an issue . it be our intention to get back to 2 . 5 % of gdp — that be the figure when we leave office and we want to get back there . I remind she that this country have now commit £ 7 . 8 billion to military support , and the Prime Minister have commit to provide £ 3 billion a year in military support for as long as it take . she be right to raise the huge concern about the DPRK . some 10 , 000 north korean troop be in Russia as we speak , which be a major escalation . that have be note deeply in the Republic of Korea , because it link the Indo - Pacific to the Euro - Atlantic . as she know , our system have be concern about that subject for many year , but this be a major escalation in relation to those concern . the right hon . Lady be right to raise sanction . the UK have now sanction over 2 , 100 individual and entity under the russian sanction regime , as I have set out . I have go after the russian shadow fleet particularly . there be more to come . we will bear down heavily over the come month and work with partner , both in the United States and Europe , to achieve that . she will have read about my dinner with the Prime Minister and Donald Trump . we discuss Ukraine and he be seize of the important issue . Donald Trump be a winner , not a loser , and I be sure he want to ensure that the west be on the win side . I call the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee . member of my Committee and I have be meet large number of european friend and neighbour , not just Ukrainians . last week we meet the Foreign Minister from Estonia , who tell we that North Koreans be fight on european soil only a few hundred kilometre from his country . yesterday , we meet Moldovan Members of Parliament , who point out that russian rocket have be in their airspace the night before . we be hear mount concern from everyone that the change in leadership in the United States and potential election in Germany might mean there be a challenge to the united support that we , in the west , have have for Ukraine over the last 1 , 000 day . what strategy do my right hon . friend have to ensure that we remain strong , and that we all understand that a defeat Ukraine and an embolden Putin be a defeat for all of we ? I be grateful to my right hon . friend for her leadership of the Foreign Affairs Committee . she be right that Russia ' s illegal invasion of Ukraine pose a serious risk to the UK and Euro - atlantic prosperity and security , but it be also a direct threat to the international rule - base system , include international principle of sovereignty and territorial integrity . when we think about our joint intelligence and military capability with the United States , remember that many US troop be station in our own country and ten of thousand be station across Europe , in the end , with the development we have see with Korea , I be quite sure that we will continue to stand with Ukraine . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Foreign Secretary for advance sight of the statement . I join member from all part of the House to mark 1 , 000 day since Putin ' s force commence their illegal full - scale invasion of Ukraine . on behalf of the Liberal Democrats , I pay tribute to the brave people of Ukraine , include those fight on the frontline in defence of the democratic ideal that we share ; those fight the nightly terror of russian missile and drone , which continue their assault on innocent civilian ; and all the Ukrainians who have seek safety here in the UK . I be hugely proud of british family who open their door to Ukrainians in their moment of need . a few day ago , I visit the charity Surrey stand with Ukraine , in my constituency in Epsom . I meet the volunteer who be prepare winter survival kit that will be send to help ukrainian family who face a winter with limited power supply , at well . the work of such community group , up and down the country , be inspirational . we stand with Ukraine from the beginning , and we stand with Ukraine now . I be afraid to say that 1 , 000 day on , Ukraine need our support more than ever . the liberal Democrats welcome the US ' s decision on long - range missile , and I hope the Foreign Secretary will be able to shed a little more light on the UK ' s stance . however , we must go far . the clock be tick : on 20 January , President Trump will be inaugurate for the second time . do the Foreign Secretary agree that with the waver US , it be incumbent on the UK to lead within Europe now ? will he commit to bolster support for our ukrainian ally , should it waver elsewhere ? will the Government begin the process of seize russian asset — the asset themselves , not just the interest — so that we can give Ukraine what be need to liberate its territory and win the war ? let we lead the way and liberate Ukraine . Slava Ukraini ! I thank Liberal Democrat Members for their continue support . the hon . Lady be right to evoke the huge volunteer spirit across our country . I think of the thousand of people drive truck to Ukraine , and the faith group , non - governmental organisation and other gather heater and good , and ensure they get to Ukraine . they be do that month after month . they do not need encouragement and sometimes their work be not in the news , but they know the importance of their endeavour . this morning I meet Foreign Ministers from France , Germany , Poland , Italy and Spain . there be no wavering in our support for Ukraine . if anything , there be a commitment to double down on that support , a determination to ensure that Ukraine be in the strong possible position in 2025 , and a renew effort to ensure that we co - ordinate even well , particularly over the come month . I call the Chair of the Defence Committee . on this grim milestone of 1 , 000 day since the full - scale invasion by Russia , we mourn the hundred of thousand needlessly kill and injure because of Putin ' s decision to invade a democratic nation . I recently meet the ukrainian ambassador , General Zaluzhnyi , and separately a delegation of ukrainian mp , who be very grateful for our solidarity but also have some concern . the Government have rightly provide strong support to our ally , but after the escalatory deployment of north korean troop on european soil and the constant bombardment of ukrainian community by Putin , what conversation have the Foreign Secretary have with the Prime Minister and the Secretary of State for Defence about lift restriction on the usage of long - range Storm Shadow missile by Ukraine ? this be my first opportunity to congratulate my hon . friend on become Chair of the Defence Committee . he ask a question that be in the news at this time . we continue to discuss with Ukraine and international partner how good to support it go into winter . however , I know he will understand that I have nothing new to say on this , because I will not get into operational decision , which would , frankly , be a gift to Putin . we have gift military aid to support Ukraine ' s right to self - defence against Russia ' s illegal attack in accordance , as my hon . friend would expect , with international humanitarian law . I call the previous Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee , Alicia Kearns . it have be a thousand day of Ukraine fight for Europe ' s future , but more than 3 , 900 day that Ukraine have be under attack and under invasion — 3 , 900 day of bravery , terror and loss . I pay tribute to my right hon . friend the Member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) for all she do to create the Homes for Ukraine programme when many think it be impossible . consistently , though , Ukraine have be underestimate and Russia overestimate — militarily , economically and beyond . we all know here that personality matter , and as the Foreign Secretary say , we know that trump like winner . the US Government ' s new leader need to see success and victory for Ukraine as a personal victory for he . what be the Foreign Secretary do to make sure that Trump see it in those term and no other ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady for her work previously on the Foreign Affairs Committee . we be able to work together quite well when I be in my shadow role . the hon . Lady be right to say that we have a job to do now . the mantra be : one american President at a time . we have another eight week first , and Ukraine be go into winter — it may well be a bitter winter . the good news be that we be now get the money out of the door . where there have be gap between pledge and get the kit and the equipment into Ukraine , there be now a doubling down across Europe and among the international G7 partner to ensure the kit get there and put Ukraine in a strong position go into 2025 . I be confident that on 20 January , Ukraine will be in an even strong position than it be today . that will be because of that combine allied effort and because of the work in the United Kingdom by the Defence Secretary , the Prime Minister and myself to ensure that we be Ukraine ' s strong partner and that we be do everything we can to support it military , economically and on a humanitarian level . I thank my right hon . friend for his statement . indeed , I thank he and our right hon . friend the Defence Secretary for their joint leadership on this matter . the key issue , as far as I can see , be the shipment of oil . oil be the lifeblood for Putin finance his illegal activity , and sanction be the way we have to stop that . will my right hon . friend the Foreign Secretary give an assurance that there be now no british individual or company engage in the illegal shipment of oil or its financing ? if he can not give that assurance today , what further action will he take so he can come to the House in the relatively near future and do so ? my hon . friend ' s question allow I to say that sanction have deprive Russia of more than $ 400 billion since February 2022 , which be equivalent to four more year of funding for the invasion . he be also right , however , that there be a shadow fleet , and over the past few month , I have issue more sanction on those behind that . he be also right to single out the enabler , who might exist in our own country . he can trust I : I keep this under close scrutiny and there be more to come , I suspect , over the come day . he be absolutely right to make it crystal clear that we can not have UK business and enterprise individual support Russia in its war effort . I welcome the Foreign Secretary ' s statement , but I will push he on the issue highlight by the Chair of the Defence Committee , the hon . member for Slough ( Mr Dhesi ) . Britain have continuously lead the way , right from the start , whether on the provision of Javelin or main battle tank , or on the argument about fast jet . read the newspaper , I would have believe that the Foreign Secretary have be lead the way in push for storm Shadow to be use in Russia . he dismiss that and say that the matter be not to be discuss , but when will we hear from the Government that the Ukrainians will have the ability to use storm Shadow on target in Russia ? will it be next week , next month , next year ? the Americans be shame we . we should not be shame ; we should be lead . I understand the right hon . Gentleman ' s strength of feeling and why , as a Back Bencher , he be double down on the issue . I think he will see that this Government have lead and continue to lead in the debate right across our ally . he will also understand , however , that we need communication discipline on these issue . that be what we see with our opponent in Russia , the DPRK and Iran . I therefore lament a little some of the debate that we read across the newspaper . member be not go to get those sort of leak or suggestion from I at the Dispatch Box . as chair of the all - party parliamentary group on Ukraine , I thank the Foreign Secretary and the Defence Secretary for all their staunch work in support of Ukraine . we have hear a lot of talk about escalation . last week , we have a group of ukrainian mps in Parliament talk about the continued and escalating attack on the country and particularly on Kharkiv , a city of 2 million people . today , we have a Moldovan group here talk about an attempt by Russia , use dirty cash bring in suitcase from Moscow , to buy their election . we be see a hybrid war against the whole of Europe , include we in the United Kingdom . the threat of escalation by the Kremlin be happen irrespective of the action of the United Kingdom or any other country . north korean troop be in Ukraine now , fight on european soil . will the Foreign Secretary reassure I that whatever the threat from the Kremlin , our support will be unstinting and we will not stand back from support Ukraine ' s right to self - determination ? I thank my hon . friend for all he do in the all - party parliamentary group on Ukraine to champion the country ' s cause in this Parliament and beyond , with the visit he have make and his update to I over the past few year . he raise a number of issue and I want to assure he that we be alongside he and we continue to be alongside the ukrainian people . my hon . friend raise an issue that I think be important and which have not come up so far : the malign activity of Russia and the hybrid threat it be engage in right across the region . one country in particular — Moldova — be on the front line of russian hybrid threat , and the interference in its election have be entirely unacceptable . we stand in solidarity with the people of Moldova and continue to support they against the threat to journalist and the disinformation from the russian regime , and the other extreme example be receive . I thank the Foreign Secretary for his statement . as have be acknowledge , this war have be go on not just for 1 , 000 day , but for more than a decade , with Ukrainians fight for our freedom as well as for their own country ' s independence . I wish to put on record my party ' s support for the action that we have take so far , and in particular our support for Ukraine . I have a number of question for the Foreign Secretary . on drone technology , we be see delay in release some of the licence . will he mention that to his colleague in the Department for Business and Trade ? can we get some more in - country co - operation , give how far ukrainian technology have advance ? do he agree that we can no long continue to allow the Russian Federation to able to strike Ukraine with impunity ? finally , $ 300 billion - worth of russian asset have be forfeit . will he at least make a commitment to look into release that so that we can fund Ukraine properly ? Slava Ukraini . the hon . Member ask I a number of question . he raise the issue of licence , which I have also see mention in the paper . I can assure he that we have look at that matter thoroughly . there be no sense of our hold anything up . we have the most robust export licensing regime in the world . we stand by that regime , which be actually put in place by the previous Government , and there be no sense at all of it hold thing up unnecessarily . the hon . member be right to raise the issue of technology . drone technology in particular have enable both the UK and Ukraine to target russian attack with precision . I can reassure he that we will continue to lead on the matter of seized russian asset , and , over the come month , I intend to redouble my effort with our ally who be not as advanced as we be on this issue . I welcome the Foreign Secretary ' s statement and the detail that he have outline today . will he provide a little more detail on the discussion that we have have with our friend and ally across the west ? can he also reassure resident in Britain about the part that they can play ? he have speak very eloquently on that . indeed , my local ukrainian community centre have play a very important role in our area . I thank my hon . friend for his question . I say to the british people that they should take heart from the fact that this Parliament be speak with one voice . if we as a country do all that we can to ensure that , militarily and economically , Ukraine can get through 2025 , and if we be able to push and nudge our ally to ensure that we be in that place , then thing will get a hell of a lot tough for our russian opponent , and we should take heart from that . in think about the winter , we should continue to do all that we can to send equipment over to Ukraine and to support Ukrainians in this country . it be tough for the people in Ukraine at this time . some be still leave the country , for obvious reason . all of our effort be not in vain — they be hugely , hugely important , and I be hugely , hugely grateful . despite the Foreign Secretary ' s congratulatory assessment , the fact remain that Russia be run ring around western sanction and that it be use black and grey fleet to threaten the global maritime order . I have hear nothing from the Foreign Secretary about what he intend to do about that . can he enlighten we ? I do not take issue with the right hon . Gentleman say that there be still gap and hole , and that Putin have be very clever in attempt to get around the sanction that I put in place . but on 17 October we sanction a further 18 oil tanker in the russian shadow fleet , bring the total number to 43 , and in the margin of the European Political Community summit at Blenheim Palace , we lead the call for action on tackle the shadow fleet , which have now be endorse by 46 country in the European Union . therefore , the suggestion that we be do nothing do not hold . we will also continue to address the circumvention of sanction , which include highlight the risk to partner such as Kazakhstan , Uzbekistan , Turkey and the United Arab Emirates and support their effort to continue to tackle the problem . I welcome the statement by the Foreign Secretary . will he join I in pay tribute to the Huddersfield Ukrainian Club , which continue to support family who have have to flee Ukraine , include many child ? it be really important — probably now more than ever — that we work closely with our european ally , so can he set out how we will strengthen that co - operation ? as Ukraine face a long and challenging winter , how will we help it cope with the relentless attack on its energy infrastructure ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for her question . as I outline , this morning I speak to a meeting of the Weimar group of nation across Europe . it be not a forum in which the UK traditionally participate , but I be very grateful to the polish Foreign Minister , Radek Sikorski , for reach out at this time and ensure that the UK , Italy and Spain be part of that group , along with France and Germany . that be an indication of how united we be attempt to be at this time . my hon . friend rightly raise the big issue around energy over the next period . she call to mind the pernicious attack by Russia over the past 48 hour , which have be drive at those energy supply and be basically try to turn the light out in Ukraine . we must do all that we can in a co - ordinate effort to repel that activity and to help Ukraine repel that activity over the come month . my question for the Foreign Secretary be about security guarantee . as we mark 1 , 000 day since Russia ' s full - scale invasion , we should remember that Ukraine ' s ally fail to deter Russia in advance of the invasion . I do understand why a country at war can not be admit to NATO , but we must never again offer some meaningless paper pledge like the Budapest memorandum . what be the Government ' s late thinking about a meaningful security guarantee by Ukraine ' s ally , from the point when the fighting stop ? the hon . Gentleman ask a good question , but it be easy to look back in hindsight . personally , I be critical that the UK do not play a part in the Minsk agreement . we be absent and we could have play a far great role . our belief be that Ukraine ' s rightful place be in NATO . ally agree in Washington that there be to be an irreversible path to full Euro - atlantic integration , include NATO membership , and that be the right thing to do . in the meantime , the UK and our ally be step up support for Ukraine ' s immediate and long - term self - defence . the hon . member be right : we must ensure that when this war end — and it will end one day — it can not start again , and that will mean very serious security guarantee for Ukraine . may I thank the Foreign Secretary and Members across the House for the very strong cross - party support for Ukraine that have be show over recent year and no doubt will continue to be show ? on Saturday , I have the privilege of attend an annual art exhibition run by the Helping our ukrainian Friends organisation in North West Cambridgeshire . although it be a small organisation that take in a number of rural village , it have raise more than £ 300 , 000 in financial support for Ukraine , as well as collect over 100 tonne of humanitarian aid , which it have deliver over the course of 20 trip . will the Foreign Secretary join I in congratulate this group and thank people across our country for make these personal effort to support Ukraine ? I be pleased to have the opportunity to reply to my hon . friend . I be once the baby of the House — I be much thin and much well look then . I remember sit in his place 25 year ago . he be absolutely right : the volunteer spirit across this country have be extraordinary . People be make so many mission to Ukraine . they be face danger as they go into Poland to provide support on the border . it be quite incredible . of course , I congratulate all those in his constituency on the work that they have do . I thank the Foreign Secretary for his statement , but I can not hide my disappointment that he have nothing to say about free the hand of the Ukrainians to use our long - range missile . how can he lament the attack on ukrainian infrastructure when he will not allow the Ukrainians to use our weapon to strike back and retaliate ? he say all the time , " we ' re do all we can , " but we be not , and we be now foot - dragging . we use to lead ; now the Americans be in the lead . can I invite he to change the paradigm of this war and lead from the front by set an example — as the former Defence Secretary , my right hon . friend the Member for Stone , Great Wyrley and Penkridge ( Sir Gavin Williamson ) , describe — as we do in the past ? otherwise he be foot - dragging , not lead . I be not foot - dragging . we be lead , but we must be careful not to discuss these plan in detail in the House . I gently say to the hon . member that we must not abuse the fact that this be a democratic Chamber that Putin and other pore over . trust I , we be lead in that debate . we want to put Ukraine in the strong possible position . I be discuss that with the ukrainian Foreign Minister just yesterday in New York , and I will meet the ukrainian ambassador after this statement . we will ensure that they be in the strong possible position . I thank my right hon . friend for his personal and relentless leadership on sanction against those aid and abet Russia ' s illegal invasion . he will agree that it be vital that those sanction be well enforce . in his review , will he include the credible allegation of sanction evasion via Hong Kong ? close to home , will he do his utmost to end the continue delay to the release of the £ 2 . 5 billion from the sale of Chelsea football club , which remain untapped at a time when the humanitarian need be so high ? I thank my hon . friend for that question and for his continued work . we be committed to strengthen sanction enforcement . through the October launch of the new Office of Trade Sanctions implementation , we have introduce new civil monetary penalty for certain trade sanction breach and the ability to make detail of breach public . yes , we will look at the situation in relation to those entity in Hong Kong . I see that he raise the issue of Chelsea football club during question to the Defence Secretary just a few week ago . again , I confirm that that definitely remain in view . I welcome the Foreign Secretary ' s statement . he say that we would provide £ 3 billion a year in military aid this year , next year and every year that it be need . that be very much welcome , not least in Ukraine . equally , eight week from today there will be a new Administration in Washington , so Ukraine need assistance now . Putin will probably not pay a price in eight week ' time because of all the sounding come out of Washington . Ukraine need help now to hit back at Putin now . the point the hon . Gentleman make be precisely the point I make to european ally this morning . I do not have the Northern Ireland accent , but — believe I — I make the point as forcefully as he have just do . I want to put on the record my thank to the hundred of Exeter and Devon family who have play host to over 500 ukrainian family over the past 1 , 000 day . I also thank those ukrainian family for bring such life and vitality to the city and for readily share their culture with we . what be the Government do to strengthen European co - operation in support of Ukraine as it head into this bitter winter ? it be important for I to be at the EU Foreign Affairs Council in Luxembourg . it be important for I to go back — the first time for a UK Foreign Secretary — and the meeting I be in this morning be also important . we be serious about that reset with the European Union and our european partner . this be a time for more multilateralism , not less . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I host a ukrainian refugee in my home , as do many other resident of Mid Dorset and North Poole . I want to publicly thank those resident for open up their home and to thank the family who join they for their contribution . those family tell I this weekend over a cup of tea that they be afraid they will never be able to go back home , and they be terrify for their parent and grandparent stick in a live hell in Kherson . they do not think they will ever leave and that they will be forever live under occupation . what assurance can the Foreign Secretary give to those people live here that we will extend their visa for as long as need and that , if necessary , we will allow their family to join they ? I thank the hon . Lady for all she be do and for champion these issue . the United Kingdom be prepare to sign a 100 - year partnership with Ukraine . that be the nature and depth of the relationship we be set out with the Ukrainians for the year to come . that partnership , that support , that stand with they , will survive all parliamentarian — even the baby of the House — in the Chamber today . that be the reassurance . this be a great country . it be a great privilege to stand at the Dispatch Box as Foreign Secretary with the awareness that other have stand here and stand up to tyranny . we will continue to do that , and the hon . Lady must reassure those family that they will prevail . I welcome the statement by the Foreign Secretary . I be sure the House will agree that 1 , 000 day of a full - scale war be 1 , 000 day too many . my condolence and thought be with all the innocent civilian , on both side , tragically kill or affect by the conflict . they do not ask for war . Notwithstanding Ukraine ' s right to full self - defence , will the Foreign Secretary confirm that the UK military aid provide to date have not be , and will not be , use against civilian or civilian infrastructure ? will he assure the House that any decision to permit the use of storm Shadow missile will ensure the safety of civilian and be in compliance with international law ? this be the second or third occasion on which I have be able to answer a question from the hon . gentleman . he have a humility and gentleness that I be sure will serve he well in the House . I reassure he that all that we do in this country be always in compliance with international humanitarian law . the modern architect of this country , on both side of the House , give we the rule - base system . we be one of the champion of it across the world , and so we will always behave in accordance with international humanitarian law . aviation ( Accessibility ) Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to make provision about the accessibility of air travel for disabled passenger ; to make provision about the power of the Civil Aviation Authority to enforce accessibility requirement ; to remove the limit on compensation for damage to wheelchair or other mobility equipment on domestic flight ; and for connected purpose . I seek to introduce legislation to create strict regulation for airport and airline to ensure that they can facilitate the smooth journey of disabled passenger to enter the airport , navigate security , board the aircraft and have a safe journey before disembark at their destination . the Bill aim to grant great power to the Civil Aviation Authority to fine airport and airline for not comply with regulation to accommodate disabled passenger . it also aim to provide adequate compensation to they and to promote further accessibility in future development in the aviation industry . accessibility in air travel be not just a matter of convenience ; it be a matter of right , dignity and equality . it be about ensure that everyone , regardless of their mobility or physical condition , can enjoy the freedom to travel — whether for work , family or leisure — without face undue barrier or discrimination . I pay tribute to Baroness Tanni Grey - Thompson , and thank she for spending time last week to discuss with I her direct experience of these issue . I also pay tribute to the Secretary of State for Transport for announce this month that she be set up the aviation accessibility task and finish group . that group , to be chair by Baroness Grey - Thompson , will report back next summer , and will be dedicate to examine the current legislation . it will report on how to break down barrier in order to make air travel well and more accessible for disabled passenger . my Bill aim to assist with implement any recommendation , as well as address exist issue relate to fine and compensation . I place on record my thank to Sophie Morgan , Christopher Wood and their colleague at the Rights on Flights campaign for their work to raise awareness of these issue . since its creation in 2023 , their group have campaign admirably on accessibility in air travel . my Bill take into account their work in design a propose assist air travel Act that recommend extend the accessibility and right of disabled people in air travel . I be grateful for their continue support in the creation of my ten - minute rule Bill . all too often we hear story and see video of wheelchair user be force to crawl through or off an aeroplane because of a lack of equipment , knowledge and space on board . I be grateful to Frank Gardner , who , like Sophie Morgan and Baroness Grey - Thompson , have highlight those issue and his own experience . such experience be sadly also share by blind and sight - impair passenger . research conduct last year by which ? show that the most inaccessible or challenging act of air travel be navigate the airport , arrange assistance to board and disembark the plane , and get to and from the airport . the issue of accessibility can occur at check - in desk and security , alongside a lack of clear signage and inefficient procedure . once passenger have board the plane , the issue begin to manifest tenfold for disabled passenger . the current design of many aircraft do not meet the need of disabled passenger . there be often inadequate space for wheelchair user to navigate the cabin , and facility such as accessible bathroom be limited or non - existent on many flight . although airline may offer assistance to board and disembark , the quality and availability of that assistance can vary drastically from one airline to another , and there be little , if any , regulation . make airport legally liable for the bad treatment and discriminatory practice against disabled passenger would give consumer the ability to sue airline for disability discrimination . many air carrier do not provide the space or the safety requirement for a passenger to fly in their own wheelchair . to facilitate that , wheelchair block should be include to allow wheelchair user to remain safely in their chair throughout the flight . many of those change will be an ongoing development in new aircraft , and should also feature wide aisle , large accessible bathroom and priority seating for those who require special assistance . I accept that a number of leader in the field be work to design a new range of airline that will redesign aircraft to make that part of the journey experience easy . those who be able to get on to a plane in the first place be often leave with the worry of their wheelchair be damage in transit or because of a lack of knowledge among airport staff . it be therefore paramount that a single set of rule and regulation be apply to all airline , to promote well knowledge among airport and airline staff and to minimise the risk of damage to wheelchair and mobility scooter . it be of paramount importance that a passenger can quickly access and use their mobility equipment once they have reach their destination , but that be hinder by any damage sustain , so measure must be put in place to ensure that air carrier and airport - manage body have the mean to transfer securely and stow mobility aid . that would avoid all form of hand - carrying of power wheelchair and other large mobility aid , minimise the risk of damage and the risk of injury to staff . it also require further training for airport and airline staff on assist disabled traveller from the airport to the boarding of the plane . staff must also be provide with training on manoeuvre disabled passenger and their mobility equipment in an emergency . there need to be more consistency in the accessibility service provide by airline and airport . too often , the quality of service can vary from one airport or airline to another , and that inconsistency lead to confusion and delay for passenger . we need clear , standardised protocol that can be rely upon by all . the CAA be responsible for the regulation of aviation safety in the UK , but it be inhibit in that because it lack the power to fine airline . instead , it must rely on take business to court to force they to uphold passenger right . it be therefore imperative that a suitable compensation and penalty charge scheme be introduce , with new legal right for complaint - handling , reporting , and enforcement procedure . that would include plan for the CAA to be able to issue financial penalty to airline that fail in their obligation to disabled traveller , and would ensure that the CAA have legal power to fine airline and other actor in the air travel sector if they fail to look after disabled passenger and their mobility device , whether any harm be due to damage or neglect . that would help to create an equal basis in air travel for disabled people . airline and airport typically have their own claim procedure to follow , which lead to a lack of cohesion and often to more confusion and difficulty for consumer in navigate the process . the combined outcome can lead many consumer not to claim for their owe compensation . in November 2024 , the CAA ' s independent panel recommend new consumer enforcement power and reform alternative dispute resolution scheme . without the necessary enforcement power , consumer face lengthy wait to receive assistance and be often misinformed about their right , and the CAA do not have the power to investigate concern . currently , the amount of compensation available through those complex rule may be limit to around £ 1 , 300 , but many wheelchair be worth six or seven time that amount . the issue be exacerbate by the fact that although airport should be responsible for provide a temporary alternative when a wheelchair or mobility aid be repair or replace , that do not have to be on a like - for - like basis . as the parent of a wheelchair user , I fully appreciate the issue outline by campaigner . like other , my family have decide for many year that fly would simply be too much hassle , and that the distress of a damaged or lose wheelchair at the end of a flight be too upsetting to consider . every person should have the right to use an aeroplane for leisure , family or work purpose . however , the current facility of airport and airline , and the CAA ' s lack of power , prohibit disabled passenger from access aviation travel . my Bill be applicable to all carrier — domestic and foreign — undertake flight within , from and to the airspace of the UK , as well as to all airport within the UK . the Bill ' s provision extend to tour operator , ground handler , service provider , stakeholder and subcontractor involve in provide good and service to disabled people travel within or through the United Kingdom . the Aviation ( accessibility ) Bill would make the necessary change to the law to ensure that airport and airline be well able to provide facility for disabled passenger and allow they to access air travel safely . I commend the Bill to the House . question put and agree to . order , that Daniel Francis , support by Mr Calvin Bailey , Richard Baker , Antonia Bance , Ruth Cadbury , Jen Craft , Marsha De Cordova , Steve Darling , Mary Kelly Foy , Ruth Jones , Anna Sabine and Melanie Ward , present the Bill . Daniel Francis accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 4 July 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 134 ) . passenger Railway Services ( Public Ownership ) Bill ( Programme ) ( no . 2 ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 83A ( 7 ) ) , that the follow provision shall apply to the Passenger Railway Services ( Public Ownership ) Bill for the purpose of supplement the order of 29 July 2024 ( passenger Railway Services ( Public Ownership ) bill : Programme ) : consideration of Lords Amendments ( 1 ) proceeding on consideration of Lords Amendments shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion two hour after their commencement . subsequent stage ( 2 ) any further message from the Lords may be consider forthwith without any question be put . ( 3 ) proceeding on any further message from the Lords shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour after their commencement . — ( Christian Wakeford . ) question put and agree to . passenger Railway Services ( Public Ownership ) Bill consideration of Lords amendment I must draw the House ' s attention to the fact that financial privilege be engage by Lords amendment 2 . if that Lords amendment be agree to , I will cause the customary entry waive Commons financial privilege to be enter in the Journal . before clause 1 - purpose : improvement of passenger railway service I beg to move , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 1 . with this it will be convenient to discuss : lord amendment 2 , and government motion to disagree . lord amendment 3 . I be delighted that the Passenger Railway Services ( Public Ownership ) Bill have return to this House . I thank Members of both Houses for their careful scrutiny , and I commend the collaborative , cross - party approach take during the passage of the Bill to date . I place on record especially my thank to the Rail Minister , Lord Hendy of Richmond Hill , and to Baroness Blake of Leeds for their valuable support and for lead the Bill so expertly through the other place . three amendment be make there that we will seek to address today in this House . before I speak on the amendment , I remind both Houses that the Government be elect on a manifesto commitment to bring franchise for train service back into public ownership where they belong , in line with the wish of a clear majority of the british public and in direct response to the failure of the previous Government . public ownership will end the gravy train that see the taxpayer foot the bill for more than £ 100 million each year in fee to private operator , which ultimately benefit their shareholder , not passenger and not the taxpayer . it will allow we to strip out inefficiency and waste and will pave the way for the creation of great British Railways , end the fragmentation of the fail franchising system and bring together responsibility for track and train under single , unified leadership with a relentless focus on those who use the railway . I make a statement to the House only last week set out the early progress that we have make in fix our railway . there be a long way to go in restore public confidence and pride in our railway after year of failure , but the journey have begin . I will briefly set out the Government ' s position on the two non - Government amendment that be make to the Bill in the other place . lord amendment 1 seek to insert a purpose clause in the Bill and to require I to have regard to it . I be sure that the amendment be well intentione , and I be delighted that after year of decline performance the Conservative party now recognise that reliability and punctuality actually matter to passenger . I be more than happy to reassure the House that improve the performance of the railway be at the top of my priority list , especially in view of the mess inherit by this Government . I really do not need a purpose clause to remind I of that . in my first few month in office , I have spend my time make sure that railway leader pay much more attention to punctuality and reliability than they have in recent year . as well as be unnecessary , Lords amendment 1 be misleading and potentially harmful , because it pick out improve the performance of passenger rail service as the sole purpose of the Bill . if that be really its sole purpose , the good thing we could do would be to cut train service from the timetable ; the easy way to make train run on time be to run few of they . I hope that hon . member on all side of the House can agree that that would be absurd . improve performance be of course a vital objective , but it be certainly not the only one . from save million of pound each year in fee to private operator and strip out inefficiency and waste to simplify the arcane fare and ticket system and make rail service more accessible , all those thing and many more be priority that we will address through public ownership and our wide plan for rail reform . the Government therefore can not support Lords amendment 1 , and I urge the House to oppose it . in my opening remark , I set out for the House the urgent need to deliver meaningful change . in view of that , the Government can not accept amendment 2 . the practical effect of the amendment would be to delay the programme of transfer into public ownership and prolong the fail franchising system that have inflict so much misery on passenger . delay the transfer would mean defer the benefit of public ownership , as well as the taxpayer have to pay million of pound more in fee to private operator . clearly , the Government can not accept that , especially give that we promise the electorate we would manage the transfer without unnecessary cost . the additional cost to the taxpayer be why the amendment trigger financial privilege , as the House will see on the Order Paper and as you have lay out , Madam Deputy Speaker . I have also make it clear numerous time that this Government will not put up with the appalling standard of service previously tolerate for far too long . passenger and our constituent deserve much well . I have hear loud and clear the call for the poorest - perform service to be bring into public ownership first . I understand those call and deeply regret that the contract we inherit from the previous Government make it very difficult to do that , but sadly that be the position we must start from . we have make it clear that we will bring service into public ownership as exist contract expire , which will allow we to end franchising entirely within three year and , crucially , avoid the need to pay compensation for end those contract early . I assure the House that the Rail Minister and I be monitor the compliance of train operator with their contract like hawk . if an operator ' s performance be poor enough to trigger a right to end its contract early , we will not hesitate to exercise that right and bring its service in - house at the early possible opportunity . we will continue to hold operator ' foot to the fire to ensure that they deliver well for passenger . our plan to bring service into public ownership as exist contract end be the right plan and the only responsible one . lord amendment 2 would wreck that plan , and I urge the House to reject it . finally , the Government be pleased to table Lords amendment 3 in response to powerful contribution by Baroness Brinton , Baroness Grey - Thompson and other who speak on behalf of the many disabled people who use our railway . I echo the Rail Minister ' s comment in response to that debate . the railway have not do enough to meet the need of disabled people . we simply must do well , and we will . Lords amendment 3 send a very clear message by make it explicit in the Equality Act 2010 that publicly own train operator be subject to the public sector equality duty . lord amendment 3 be accompany by two verbal commitment by the Rail Minister , which I be happy to reiterate for the House . first , the Government will work with representative of disabled passenger to develop " an accessibility road map that will explain the action we intend to take to improve thing for disabled people or other require assistance in advance of GBR be set up . " — [ Official Report , House of Lords , 6 November 2024 ; Vol . 840 , c . 1550 . ] secondly , the Government will now fund the next phase of improvement to the passenger assist app , which be to be deliver in close collaboration with disabled passenger . lord amendment 3 be universally support in the other place , and I be grateful for the constructive discussion that have take place in relation to it . I be confident that we can continue to work across party to improve accessibility on the railway , and I urge the House to support the Government ' s position today . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I thank the other place for provide these amendment . although the measure in this Bill be not a surprise — and we have state our opposition to its fundamental from the outset — we have make the case that , in effectively nationalise the operation of our passenger railway , we risk go backwards . its core provision will mean that the progress make on passenger service since privatisation will not be carry on . that say , we do agree that there be a need for reform , and we support the reform lay out in the Williams - Shapps review . but the reform propose by this Government go too far and will undermine any potential progress . that be why the Lords amendment we be discuss be of central importance . neither of the two amendment pass in the upper House descend from the Government ' s intention to bring the franchise into public ownership , and they be clearly reasonable and measure . as the noble Lord Moylan point out , a " glare omission from the Bill be , of course , the passenger . " — [ Official Report , House of Lords , 6 November 2024 ; Vol . 840 , c . 1510 . ] this be the Passenger Railway Services ( Public Ownership ) Bill , yet it say nothing about the passenger . lord amendment 1 attempt to put that right and put the passenger back at the head of the Bill as the drive force in what the Government be try to do , and to require Ministers to test their action under the Bill against the standard of whether it will improve matter for the passenger . it clarify that the Secretary of State " must , in take any action under the provision of this Act , have regard to this purpose " , which be the " improvement of passenger railway service " . it be a simple but deeply important amendment that will ensure that the Bill , which be little more than an ideological undertaking if it lack the propose amendment , would be require to act unambiguously in the service of passenger railway improvement . how could anyone oppose that ? there be little public appetite for ideological measure that be not base on the improvement of the passenger experience , and to reject this amendment would be a tacit admission that the Government be reject the principle that legislation direct at the passenger service should be in line with service improvement . in do so , they would reject the general public consensus . I urge the Government to support the amendment on those ground . if they choose to reject it , it be incumbent on they to explain why they have decide to make a significant legislative change to our passenger ' railway that could risk worsen service . lord amendment 2 contain a simple measure : to ensure that the Government , when terminate exist franchise agreement , consider operational performance and terminate the worst - perform franchise first , enable franchise that be currently work well to continue . that would clearly be in the good interest of passenger . can the shadow Minister tell I how much that proposal would cost taxpayer ? give that he support the amendment , I presume he have a detailed financial breakdown of exactly how much money he be ask the state to commit . the point of the amendment be to put passenger at the heart of the decision make we be ask for . [ hon . member : " how much ? " ] the point of the amendment be to put passenger at the heart of the decision making , and the propose amendment would ensure that this legislation be in the service of improve passenger experience , not purely in the service of fulfil an ideological undertaking . lord amendment 2 would also ensure that the Government , alongside stakeholder , consider carefully what performance datum be most relevant to passenger experience , and would ensure that that data be take into consideration when undertake the action facilitate by the legislation . I fail to understand why the Government would be oppose to such a clearly reasonable protective measure , but I can guess . in justify this ideological legislation , the Government have make clear their intention to utilise selective performance datum . rather than clarify the relevant performance information for its own administrative use or for passenger understanding , they be obscure it , allow the Government to fulfil an ideological project untethere from the public ' s wish to see their experience on the railway improve . of course , the Government could choose to put politic aside and support the amendment , and we call on they to do so . if they do , that would signal that while they be undertake this ideological rail project , they be also seriously consider the need for the legislation to make an actual improvement to passenger experience . this amendment will help the Government ' s action , and it be not found on selective principle . a failure to accept the propose amendment will also fail to ensure that the ideological measure be undertake by this Government take into account the need and experience of passenger . will the shadow Minister give way ? I be just wind up . such a failure will only further the approach — already take by this government — of prioritise political convenience over substantive action . we urge the Government to support these amendment and , in do so , mitigate the negative impact of their legislation and work to protect and support passenger . Madam Deputy Speaker , you will perhaps be relieve to know that I will not detain the House particularly long . I rise to support the government , but also to say something in favour of the motion in the Secretary of State ' s name relate to Lords amendment 2 . I read the Lords debate on their amendment 1 and 2 , and I sympathise with the notion that passenger receive the poor service from a train operate company may wish its franchise to be terminate early . however , the point of this Bill be not simply to take over the bad franchise , but to recognise that the private operation of the passenger rail service have deliver a poor service for passenger in general , and that the remedy be to return all passenger franchise to public ownership and close control . I say to Conservative Members that the british public speak on this issue at the last election . if we look at any of the research and analysis on the passenger rail service , it be abundantly clear that not only do the vast majority of the british public want to take our railway back into public ownership and control , but the majority of conservative supporter want the same thing . perhaps that tell we a great deal about why the party opposite be the party opposite — why Conservative Members no long sit on the Government Benches . the hon . member for Orpington ( Gareth Bacon ) make many reference to ideology . I do not know how many time he mention the word , but I ask he to cast his mind back to the Railways Act 1993 : if ever there be an act of ideology , that be it . John Major take a step that even she whose portrait must be remove be not prepared to take — she recognise that it be a ridiculous step to take . I suspect that the mover of the motion in the other place be seek a device to disrupt the orderly transfer of passenger rail back into public ownership , which be well achieve with the least cost to the taxpayer by do so as each franchise contract expire . I be hearten to hear conservative Members be so evangelical about the issue of performance and punctuality . where be they for the past 14 year ? why be they not do anything about those issue ? will the hon . member give way ? I will certainly give way . I look forward to it . the hon . Member have mention remove franchise base on performance and passenger satisfaction , but c2c — which operate with a 94 % passenger approval rating — will be one of the first franchise to be remove . I actually think that Lords amendment 2 be quite sensible , in that it look at how we prioritise . some franchise operator operate very well - recommend and well - approve service . perhaps the hon . Gentleman would like to tell we where he think the dividend go when they ship out of the system . the conservative party be quite content to see massive dividend pay out to Abellio , Nederlandse Spoorwegen , Deutsche Bahn , and every other nation state on the planet that could subsidise its own transport system because of the ridiculous system impose on this country ' s railway by the conservative party . rather than serve passenger and performance , what we get be money ship out of our system for decade , subsidise other nation state ' transport system — if that be not a good example of barmy ideology , I do not know what be . we be correct that , and rightly so . the Minister in the Lords , my noble Friend Lord Hendy , say that " the Government do not believe that we should either pay compensation for termination or keep pay fee to own group of train operating company when we do not need to . " he also clarify that some contract may end early if their performance require it : " if we have the opportunity to put passenger out of their misery by end a fail operator ' s contract early and bring their service into public ownership , we will do just that . " — [ Official Report , House of Lords , 6 November 2024 ; Vol . 840 , c . 1519 . ] the Government be clear that they be move ahead with restore passenger rail to public ownership . they have a clear plan to do so , but Lords amendment 2 create obstacle to do that . it be not in the interest of passenger , and I hope the House will throw it out when we vote later . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . our current railway system be simply not fit for purpose , and I know I speak for everyone in this Chamber when I say that have to change . if we be serious about growth , we have to get serious about rail . after year of Tory neglect , we must get our network back on track and put the passenger first . across the world , there be example of both publicly and privately own train company that do exactly that . because of that , we need not be ideological about ownership ; rather , we can take a pragmatic approach . that be why the Lib Dems have be , and remain , agnostic about the ownership model adopt . as the Government have themselves admit , nationalisation be not a silver bullet . it will not automatically deliver cheap fare , a more reliable and frequent service , or a well passenger experience . while nationalisation might offer economy of scale , it come with new danger — those of we in this Chamber old enough to remember the travail of travel on British Rail be unlikely to become misty - eyed at the prospect of go back to that future , although we might well shed a tear . in short , nationalisation alone will not fix the mess that the Government inherit from the Conservatives . the devil , as so often , be in the detail , and I eagerly await publication of the forthcoming rail reform Bill , which we will scrutinise keenly to ensure that it do not succumb to the same demon that hold back rail in this country for decade , whether it be in public or private hand . turn to Lords amendment 1 , throughout my party ' s scrutiny of this Bill , we have be ask one simple question : will it improve passenger outcome ? as the Secretary of State have often argue , that be what nationalisation be mean to do , and it be why she rightly describe herself as passenger - in - chief . the amendment be consequently important . it make it clear that the primary purpose — but not the only purpose — of the Bill be to improve passenger railway service , and it require the Secretary of State to have regard to that purpose when make any decision use the power under the Act , so I do not understand why the passenger - in - chief do not want this commitment enshrine in the legislation . a statement of the Bill ' s primary purpose would not add any significant cost , place extra demand on the Secretary of State , or impose any new burden on great British Railways . it would , however , provide a foundation on which her decision might build , and act as a guide principle whenever she use power under the Act . as my noble Friend in the other place argue , a requirement on the Secretary of State to improve passenger standard at every turn should not be controversial , and be surely not something with which she disagree , so I be surprised that she seek to excise the statement from the Bill , and I urge member from across the House to vote against the Government motion to disagree . lord amendment 2 require the Secretary of State to rank franchise agreement by performance , and to nationalise franchise in that order , start with the bad , but in each case only if the Secretary of State be satisfied that it will result in performance be improve . there be some logic to that approach ; if we go simply by when franchise be due to end , some of the well - perform franchise would be nationalise first and some of the bad last , which be why we originally propose this amendment . that same amendment , in its entirety , have now be put forward by the Conservatives . imitation be of course the sincere form of flattery , and I be duly touch by their action . I only wish that they have take the same approach to Brexit . however , follow discussion with and reassurance from the Minister in the other place , we now believe that the wording be too inflexible , and that the cost of implement the amendment be too high , so we be unable to support it . we do , however , share some of our conservative colleague ' concern , and we ask the Secretary of State to consider use the power in the Bill to extend franchise that be perform well , where appropriate , as be mention by the hon . member for Fylde ( Mr Snowden ) . if a franchise be do well , the Government should not rush to fix something that be not break ; they should prioritise nationalise franchise that be perform poorly . lord amendment 3 would make the public sector equality duty apply to a publicly own railway provider . that be very welcome , and I be pleased that the Government have bring forward this amendment , after pressure from Lib Dem colleague and other in the other place . we be all shock by Baroness Grey - Thompson ' s account of be force to crawl off a train this summer . nobody should be compel to do that in 2024 , and it be appal that it be a constant reality for many . only one in four mainline railway station have step - free access , and about 40 % of they have no tactile paving . this make our public transport difficult , if not impossible , to use for many live with a disability . that be simply not good enough . public transport should be accessible to all , and everyone in society should benefit from the improvement to service that we all hope to see . ensure that the public sector equality duty apply to nationalise rail service be a step in the right direction . I do , of course , appreciate that the Government be work under the assumption that it would ; however , enshrine that in the Bill will help to strengthen that commitment . I consequently welcome the commitment that the Minister in the other place make , and I hope to see further proposal for make transport accessible in the upcoming rail reform Bill , as much more still need to be do . I have see at first hand in my constituency how hard it be for local community to receive funding and support to make train station more accessible . local Lib Dems in Wimbledon campaign for a decade to achieve step - free access at Motspur Park , and I be delighted that I will soon be attend its unfurling . however , this should not have take a decade to achieve . we have likewise be wait for many year for Raynes Park and Haydons Road to be make step free , and we continue our campaign . I know that the Secretary of State take this issue seriously , and I look forward to hear her plan to revive the Access for all programme — plan on which she and her Department be work . I rise to support the Government motion to disagree with the Lords amendment . Britain ' s railway be not work as they should , and nowhere be this clear than in my constituency of Burton and Uttoxeter . community such as ours have face delay , cancellation and limited service . in Uttoxeter , Sunday train do not run until 3 pm , leave passenger strand or have to resort to drive to their destination . in Burton , high fare and overcrowded train be a daily frustration . on some service , it be so difficult to get a seat that it be a bit like be a Labour MP at Prime Minister ' s question . we can and must do well . this be not an isolated issue ; it be the direct result of decade of privatisation — a model that promise efficiency , but deliver fragmentation and sky - high cost . it have leave passenger pay some of the high fare in Europe , all while billion of pound flow into the pocket of private shareholder , instead of be reinveste in well service . our commitment to bring rail franchise into public ownership be the first step towards reverse this failure . public ownership will allow we to reinvest £ 1 . 5 billion a year back into the system . that money will improve service , reduce fare and modernise our age infrastructure . that be about not just the system but the people it serve . public ownership mean that passenger will have a real say . an accountable passenger standard authority will give local people a voice in how their railway be run . my constituent want more frequent service and affordable ticket , and they want to know that when they wait for a train , it will actually turn up . public ownership give we the chance to listen to concern and act on they . cut fare and invest back in the railway be not just about convenience ; it be about connect people to job , education and opportunity . for every £ 1 spend on the railway , the economy gain £ 2 . 50 . that money go straight into create job , support local business and boost regional economy . fix Britain ' s railway be about more than just train and timetable . it be about build a system that work for people , not profit . this government ' s plan for public ownership put we on the right track . now we must go far by invest in infrastructure , lower fare and ensure that community such as mine be no long leave wait on the platform . I remind colleague that their contribution should relate to the Lords amendment . I want to speak to Lords amendment 2 . I will briefly make a few point first , but I fully understand that I should not go through the debate we have already have on this Bill . that debate be about conservative Members ' belief that we will drive improvement in the railway by put the passenger at the heart of thing , and by ensure great competition and private sector investment , while the Labour party argue through its manifesto that it can do that through the nationalisation of rail . we have have that debate , but Lords amendment 2 be about pragmatic way in which the proposal can be well implement , with the passenger at the heart of they . I fully accept that we be not have the debate over again ; in fact , it be quite refreshing to see the Labour party not break one of its manifesto promise , but instead actually push on with the Bill . as I say in my intervention , c2c have a 94 % passenger satisfaction rate , but it be one of the first franchise that would lose its licence . labour ' s Lord Snape say on 6 November that it would make no sense to remove a franchise such as the Greater Anglia one , which have great public support for the way in which it operate its service . in response , the Minister say that amendment 1 would not make sense , because we could simply play the game of target . however , the Government can play the game of target whether or not the amendment be make . it do not really matter whether the Government can stack target or cut datum a certain way . we need to call thing out , and put passenger and improve service at the heart of the Bill . lord amendment 2 and 1 be pragmatic step to take . we accept that the Labour party be implement a manifesto promise , but the Lords have make reasonable recommendation on how thing could be do well , and how we can put the passenger at the heart of the Bill . the amendment look at where passenger already get good service , and stage change in a way that will not be disruptive to passenger who already get a good service on the railway network . I wish to associate myself with the comment of the Secretary of State for Transport . have hear what she say about some of the amendment from the other place , I can say that she be a far more generous person than I be . I have not be in this place long , but I can certainly tell mischief when I see it — mischief from the other place and , I be afraid , from the opposition — because the intention here be not to put the passenger at the heart of the Bill . if Conservative Members , when in government , have genuinely want to put passenger at the heart of the railway , they might have act differently over 14 year of abject failure . I spend a lot of time on the railway , as do many member across the House when travel between Westminster and their constituency . I see that failure daily , as I have do most of my adult life , at time when , regrettably , the conservative party have be in government . conservative Members can not even explain how much the amendment would cost . as I say , rail privatisation have be a failure . the Lords amendment do not seek to overturn the decision of this House — of course not — but they would cause considerable delay . however , rail change make by this Government will be meaningful , unlike those make by the previous Government . do anyone remember Great British Railways , which the former Member for Welwyn Hatfield be incredibly proud of ? except there be a problem : the railway be not great , and quite often they be not own by british company , although I suppose we do at least have to give he the fact that they be railway . under this government , there will be great british railway , with one single train operator , and we will deliver a fundamentally well service . I come from a part of the country that be proud of our railway tradition . George Stephenson , the father of the railway , come from not too far from my constituency , and each week I walk over a high level bridge design by his son , Robert Stephenson , which still carry train to this day . the Stephensons would be appal to see the state of the british railway system today . we transport railway around the world , yet those travel across Europe or Asia today will see rail system that be far beyond what we have in the home of railway . that be a national embarrassment . finally , Lords amendment 3 on the public sector equality duty be excellent , and I will support it . the point be well make early today , during debate on the ten - minute rule Bill , about the indignity that disable people too often face on the railway . I thank member from the other place for table that amendment , and the Secretary of State for indicate the Government ' s support . ultimately , the public sector equality duty be a high bar , as it should be , and as this Labour Government bring other service back in house , I would like that public sector equality duty to be apply to they . let I say how grateful I be that the Government have accept Lords amendment 3 . the accessibility of public transport be crucial for all those who wish to use rail service and be currently unable to do so because of their disability need . all village station in my constituency lack step - free access , and it be deeply frustrating for train user that they have to schlep into Guildford . wonderful as Guildford town station be , they should not have to travel that far ; they should be able to get on the train and head where they want to go . accessibility be not just for those with disability concern , as it improve the service for all user — I think of mum and dad with buggy , and cyclist . step - free access make train more accessible , mean that more people use they . that improve the level of traffic on our road , which lead to the goal that we all share to reach net zero and create a green future . I endorse Lords amendment 3 and will support it . I look forward to see the detail of the Government ' s accessibility road map , and a step change in the speed of delivery under the Access for all programme . rise — rise — I call Graham Leadbitter . the SNP support the Bill and the Government ' s position on the Lords amendment , mainly because the SNP Government in Scotland have already drive forward with public ownership . sadly , without full and normal power of independence — those will come in due course — the Bill be the current mean to support and underpin those action by the Scottish Government . I accept the Secretary of State ' s position on Lords amendment 1 . to take an example from my constituency , Inverness Airport station be open relatively recently , and that add time to the journey between Inverness and Aberdeen . Kintore station in Aberdeenshire be also open , add time to the overall length of the journey , but I do not think anybody would dispute that those be good improvement to the railway . they open up the railway to far more people , mean that more people be use the line , spend money on rail service , and take car off the road , even if the overall journey time have not be reduce . therefore the definition of an improvement in performance be really important , and the amendment give no indication of how that will be deal with . for that reason , the SNP do not support it . we agree that Lords amendment 2 could result in further loss to the public purse and the paying of excessive fee over an extended period . we want that money to come back to the public purse so that it can be reinveste in the railway and increase the usage of our train . this be not the 1980 . there be a lot of talk about go back to how thing be prior to privatisation , but governance and scrutiny be now in a very different place from 40 year ago , and we should acknowledge that . a railway that be publicly own might bring about a real and sustained age of the train , which we might recall from our youth , with real infrastructure investment like that see in Scotland . we want to continue to do more of that . that will drag people back on to the railway and move they off the road , which will contribute to our effort on climate change and gently improve people ' s life . that be why we support the Government ' s position on the Lords amendment . rise — order . the hon . member for Derby North would have be call soon if she have be consistent with she bob , but I know she have be here throughout the debate , so I call Catherine Atkinson . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I rise to speak in favour of Lords amendment 3 and the public sector equality duty . I welcome the Government ' s plan for an accessible road map , and the fact that they will work with disabled community to ensure that the Bill properly meet the need of people with disability who travel on our train . in the other place the Minister for Rail note that although some change can happen quickly , such as the map , other take long due to the longevity of roll stock . I encourage the Government to work with roll stock manufacturer to formulate a plan as to what change need to be make to our train , so that they can be modernise to ensure that future generation of stock serve the disabled community . give the direction on accessibility , sustainability and affordability , I know that not only the east midland rail cluster that my constituency be in but the whole industry will be inspire to be the first , so that other country will want to follow . I hope that Lords amendment 3 will encourage all those who be championing improvement for our disabled community . I call the Secretary of State to wind up . I thank all member for their important contribution . let I start by echo my hon . friend ' frustration with the Opposition ' s position . I sit for two and half year in the place of the shadow Secretary of State , the hon . member for Orpington ( Gareth Bacon ) , beg his predecessor who sit in my current seat to take action on performance on behalf of passenger , so forgive I , but I will not be lecture by the party that give Avanti West Coast a nine - year extension . I will certainly not be lecture about put ideology before the interest of passenger . this Bill be one step towards the big reform of our railway in decade . it will put passenger first , and I look forward to debate with all member of this House as the railway Bill be introduce and pass through the House . I appreciate the constructive way in which the hon . member for Wimbledon ( Mr Kohler ) approach the debate . as I set out in my opening remark , I be concern about potentially perverse incentive . we have already publish our six objective for the railway in our " get Britain move " White Paper , which cover reliability , affordability , efficiency , quality , accessibility and safety . I hope that he and other member will accept that those objective adequately and comprehensively support the objective of put passenger first . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Middlesbrough and Thornaby East ( Andy McDonald ) for his passionate defence of the Government ' s position and his comment on the ideological position that the Conservatives have pursue . he expose the huge flaw in their argument as they attempt to frustrate the Government ' s progress on this important reform . my hon . friend the Member for Burton and Uttoxeter ( Jacob Collier ) give a passionate account of the impact of the poor performance of the railway that we have inherit . it cut entire community off , and he outline the importance of have an accountable railway system , which these reform will deliver by have a single point of access to great British Railways , through which member across this House and , crucially , local people through their local leader can hold the railway to account . there be powerful contribution from my hon . friend the Member for Gateshead Central and Whickham ( Mark Ferguson ) and the hon . member for Guildford ( Z ö e Franklin ) on Lords amendment 3 , which will be transformative in ensure that the railway be accountable under the public sector equality duty , that we lift our ambition and aspiration for our railway , and that passenger , particularly those with accessibility need , be at the heart of this reform . I be grateful to the hon . member for Moray West , Nairn and Strathspey ( Graham Leadbitter ) , who speak for the Scottish National party . I agree wholeheartedly that we be not go back to the ' 80 or to British Rail — I be obviously far too young to remember it anyway . this be not Network Rail 2 . 0 or British Rail reboot ; this be an enormous once - in - a - generation opportunity for a new organisation with a new culture and a new ethos , bring a genuinely new era for our railway . finally , I thank my hon . friend the Member for Derby North ( Catherine Atkinson ) for her consistent passion and contribution on behalf of the wide supply chain . I can happily commit that we will work with roll stock manufacturer as part of our accessibility road map . on that note , I ask the House to support the Government ' s position by reject Lords amendment 1 and 2 and accept Lords amendment 3 . question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 1 . Debbie Abrahams Shockat Adam Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Anneliese Dodds Dave Doogan Graeme Downie Rosie Duffield Neil Duncan - Jordan Colum Eastwood Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Stephen Gethins Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Peter Lamb David Lammy Ian Lavery Chris Law Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Graham Leadbitter Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Seamus Logan Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alex McIntyre Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Stephen Morgan Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Richard Quigley Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Mike Reader Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Michelle Scrogham Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Pete Wishart Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Vicky Foxcroft Taiwo Owatemi Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Mims Davies Bobby Dean Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Alex Easton Luke Evans Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Andrew George Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour John Glen Olly Glover Tom Gordon Helen Grant Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Charlie Maynard James McMurdock Esther McVey Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Andrew Mitchell Iqbal Mohamed Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Tessa Munt Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Jack Rankin Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Ian Roome Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Mel Stride Graham Stuart Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young Jerome Mayhew Alicia Kearns the House divide : Ayes 344 , Noes 172 . question accordingly agree to . Lords amendment 1 disagree to . clause 1 - prohibition on franchise extension and new franchise Motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 2 . — ( Louise Haigh . ) Debbie Abrahams Shockat Adam Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Nicholas Dakin Emily Darlington Ann Davies Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Anneliese Dodds Dave Doogan Graeme Downie Rosie Duffield Neil Duncan - Jordan Colum Eastwood Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Stephen Gethins Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Rachel Hopkins rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Ben Lake Peter Lamb David Lammy Ian Lavery Chris Law Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Graham Leadbitter Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Seamus Logan Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Llinos Medi Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Stephen Morgan Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Alex Norris Dan Norris Brendan O ' Hara Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Mike Reader Steve Reed Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Liz Saville - Roberts Michelle Scrogham Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Pete Wishart Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Vicky Foxcroft Taiwo Owatemi Jim Allister Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell James Cartlidge Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Harriet Cross Mims davy Charlie Dewhirst Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Alex Easton Luke Evans Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier John Glen Helen Grant Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe James McMurdock Esther McVey Andrew Mitchell Iqbal Mohamed Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Rebecca Paul Chris Philp Jack Rankin Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Andrew Rosindell Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst David Simmonds Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Mel Stride Graham Stuart Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Richard Tice Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Jerome Mayhew Alicia Kearns the House divide : Ayes 350 , Noes 108 . question accordingly agree to . lord amendment 2 disagree to . Lords amendment 3 agree to . order , that a Committee be appoint to draw up reason to be assign to the Lords for disagree with their amendment 1 and 2 ; that Louise Haigh , Kate Dearden , Julie Minns , Liam Conlon , Mark Ferguson , Gareth Bacon and Z ö e Franklin be member of the Committee ; that Louise Haigh be the Chair of the Committee ; that three be the quorum of the Committee . that the Committee do withdraw immediately . — ( Christian Wakeford . ) committee to withdraw immediately ; reason to be report and communicate to the Lords . infected Blood Inquiry I beg to move , that this House have consider the Infected Blood Inquiry . I be grateful for this opportunity to come before the House to update it on this vital issue and discuss the finding of the infected blood inquiry ' s final report . we be now almost six month on from the publication of that report . I be pleased to have the Under - Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , my hon . friend the Member for Gorton and Denton ( Andrew Gwynne ) with I on the Government Front Bench today . he will lead on the element of the inquiry report that be matter for the Department of Health and Social Care . we be as one in our determination to drive forward this vital work and deliver action on the finding of the infected blood inquiry ' s report . that be the very least that the infected and affected victim of this appalling injustice deserve . as right hon . and hon . member will be aware , I have make a number of statement to this House regard the progress the Government have make on the compensation scheme . today be an opportunity to go beyond that and cover the wide issue raise in Sir Brian Langstaff ' s report . I be grateful to colleague across the House for their engagement on this matter . I know that we be unite as a House in seek to deliver justice , in so far as it be possible , for this terrible scandal . we will not shy away from the appalling finding of the inquiry ' s report and the horror that have be inflict on the infected blood community . I reiterate my thank today to Sir Brian Langstaff and his team for that comprehensive report . crucially , I thank the community themselves . I recognise the anger and the mistrust that many , quite understandably , hold towards public institution that have let so many people down so badly . when the infected blood inquiry report in May , the now Prime Minister and I be clear that an apology be meaningful only if it be accompany by action . it be action that we be take . that be why I be so determined to move quickly to establish the infected blood compensation scheme and why I expect to see payment begin by the end of this year . the Prime Minister commit to deliver the Hillsborough law to help address the institutional defensiveness so powerfully expose by Sir Brian ' s report . today , I want to update the House on the work we be drive forward across the other key finding of the report to do everything possible to ensure that an injustice such as this be never allow to happen again . I welcome the fact that my right hon . friend the Chancellor provide , for the very first time , specific funding for the compensation fund : £ 11 . 8 billion in the Budget . that make clear the scale of this Government ' s commitment to justice , and I be proud that we be drive that work forward . compensation delay for generation will be deliver . my right hon . friend rightly pay tribute to Sir Brian Langstaff . everyone should be grateful to he for what he have do . in recommendation 14 of his second interim report , he be quite clear that the compensation body should be at arm ' s length from Government and chair by a completely independent judge with sole decision - make power . do the Government accept the core of that recommendation ? the Infected Blood Compensation Authority have operational independence . the Government have stewardship over the amount of money allocate . as my hon . friend will appreciate , the £ 11 . 8 billion be a huge and substantial commitment . I do not pretend for a moment that any amount of money can actually provide recompense for the scale of the injustice , but at the same time it be an indication of the commitment — from the Prime Minister , the Chancellor and across the Government — to deliver justice . in say that , I should say that I be grateful for the work and co - operation of hon . member across the House . in particular , I once again thank my predecessor as Paymaster General , the right hon . member for Salisbury ( John Glen ) , for his effort in government . as I indicate in the debate last week , I look forward to continue to work in that spirit with the new shadow Paymaster General , the right hon . member for Basildon and Billericay ( Mr Holden ) , on this hugely important issue . I also thank my ministerial colleague , my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull North and Cottingham ( Dame Diana Johnson ) , and the former Member for worthe West . their tireless campaigning and representation of the community ' s interest over so many year have be invaluable . much progress have be make in respond to Sir Brian ' s report , but much more remain to be do . I will set out the Government ' s full response to the recommendation to the House in line with the timetable Sir Brian set out , but I hope in the course of this debate to assure right hon . and hon . member , and most importantly those in the community , that we have listen , we have learn and we be take long overdue action . the inquiry ' s report be persistent in uncover the truth , unshakeable in its honesty and damning , frankly , in its criticism . it be absolutely clear that fundamental responsibility of patient safety in healthcare be repeatedly ignore , and that " what happen would not have happen if safety of the patient have be paramount throughout . " the culture of wilful ignorance run through the report , and continue to proliferate as the scandal develop . it speak to government across decade and a state more focused on discharge its function , whatever the risk and whatever the cost . the report chronicle suffer of almost unimaginable scale : thousand of people die prematurely and continue to die every week ; life completely shatter ; evidence destroy ; victim undermine ; family devastate ; and child use as object of research . it be a truly horrify injustice . however , Sir Brian ' s report go much far . he lay bare the institutional defensiveness that exist within the Government , and indeed the civil service , which lead to the truth be hide for so long , compound the pain and the injustice . Sir Brian highlight " the consequence of civil servant and minister adopt line to take without sufficient reflection , when they be inaccurate , partial when they should have be qualified , have no proper evidential foundation … or make unrealistic claim that treatment have be the good it could be . " these action be the very antithesis of public service , and that be why I know there be such collective determination to learn the right lesson and to act on they . there be so much that can be say about the volume of evidence that Sir Brian have uncover , and I know that during this debate many member will raise vital issue , but let I be absolutely clear : the report detail utterly unacceptable failing on a chilling scale , and this Government will do everything in their power to address they . through act on these lesson , we must ensure that all those who have suffer , and those who have campaign , have not do so in vain . let I now turn to the 12 recommendation that the inquiry make in its report . first , I will touch briefly on the progress that have already be make . I know that member on both side of the House be keen to hear the detail of what the Government intend to do in response . the recommendation be wide - range , and be be give full consideration . as I have say , I will provide an update to Parliament by the end of the year against each and every one of those recommendation . I will begin with compensation . I have already update the House on a number of occasion on the progress that be be make . I be grateful to member on both side of the House for their contribution to the debate on the regulation that we have make to establish the Infected Blood Compensation Authority and the core route for compensation for infected people , but I be also grateful , crucially , for the support there have be throughout the House to ensure that the delivery of compensation be not delay in any way by Parliament . what assurance can be offer that the Infected Blood Compensation Authority have sufficient staffing and resource at its disposal to meet expectation of the swift payment promise by the Government ? I can assure the hon . Lady that the Government will ensure that the authority have the support it need . I expect it to be make the first payment to infected people by the end of the year , and to start make payment to affected people next year . further regulation will be require for people who be affect , but that will not disturb the timetable that I have set out . I intend the second set of regulation to be in force by 31 March next year . More than £ 1 billion have already be pay out in interim compensation , and the Government have open application for interim payment of £ 100 , 000 to the estate of deceased people who be infect with contaminate blood or blood product and have not yet be recognise . last week a constituent come to my office whose mother have die 50 year ago , eight month after a blood transfusion she have receive when give birth to her fourth son . when the family go back to collect the medical record , they find that they have all be destroy . when we talk about a cover - up , they rightly make that link . be there anything the Government can say to reassure my constituent that her case will be hear ? the Infected Blood Compensation Authority will obviously take — and I know this because of the discussion I have have with Sir Robert Francis — a sympathetic view of the level of evidence that will be require . sometimes the problem be that the issue complain of date from so long ago , but another chilling aspect of this scandal be , in some case , the wilful destruction of document . that be something that we have to take into account when it come to secure justice for people . I have have the privilege of meet several member of the community , and I be grateful to they for continue to campaign on this issue . let I also openly express my gratitude to Sir Robert Francis and David Foley of the Infected Blood Compensation Authority for continue to work with the community to drive that delivery of compensation forward . end the defensive culture in the civil service and Government be a cultural change that should unite all of we throughout public life . that be why work be under way across Government to strengthen responsibility relate to candour and transparency for public servant . in the King ' s Speech that open this Parliament , the Government set out their commitment to legislation to introduce a duty of candour for public authority and public servant , and the Prime Minister confirm at the party conference that such legislation would be deliver . he say : " it ' s a law for the sub - postmaster in the Horizon scandal . the victim of infected blood . Windrush . Grenfell Tower . and all the countless injustice over the year , suffer by work people at the hand of those who be suppose to serve they . " he also say that the Hillsborough law would be introduce to Parliament before the anniversary of that event , on 15 April next year . one of my constituent contact I recently to talk about the death of her husband , who contract hepatitis C as a result of infected blood . the impact on she and her family have be massive , even with the interim payment that she and they have receive . can the Minister confirm that the Infected Blood Compensation Authority have be establish and be undertake the necessary work to deliver payment to victim of this injustice as soon as possible ? I can indeed confirm that . the authority be work in a way that will allow it to scale up as quickly as it possibly can . the need for speed in deliver compensation payment be paramount . memorialisation will be really important in how we remember the victim of this scandal . Sir Brian Langstaff make a compelling case about the need to recognise what happen to people , and for it to be recognise by future generation . official have begin the necessary work to respond to Sir Brian ' s recommendation on memorialisation , and we recognise that this be an incredibly sensitive issue that we need to get right . Sir Brian Langstaff ' s recommendation call for fundamental change to the way that politic and Government operate , and for one of the large compensation scheme in UK history . that be entirely in line with the scale of the injustice that he have uncover . give the scale of the recommendation , I be commit to update formally on they within the 12 - month timeframe set out by Sir Brian Langstaff , but I assure member of this House , and , indeed , the infected blood community , that we will drive forward this vital work . we will deliver the change that be need , which will stand as a testament to the bravery and determination of people who have be so badly fail . I pay tribute to all those who fight so hard to bring we to this moment . their effort be monumental , and we commit again today to ensure that they have not be in vain . I commend the motion to the House . before I call the shadow Minister , I wish to make a short statement about the House ' s sub judice resolution . I understand that several legal case relate to contaminated blood product have not yet conclude . however , give the public interest in this issue , Mr Speaker have exercise his discretion to allow reference to specific proceeding where necessary , as they concern issue of national importance . I call the shadow Minister . the infected blood scandal be one of the most painful and shameful chapter in the history of the british state . for decade , hundred of individual with bleed disorder and other condition be infect with HIV , hepatitis B and hepatitis C due to the use of contaminate blood product such as factor viii and factor IX , which be often import from overseas . not only be those infection preventable , but warning from the medical community be ignore by successive government and the national health service . the victim and their family have endure unimaginable suffering , include the loss of love one and social stigma , and , tragically , many have even be blame for their own illness . the health service that be suppose to treat they , heal they and look after they , and the part of the state that be suppose to protect they , betray they . the institution of this country fail the victim and their family at such a scale that it be almost beyond comprehension . I be pleased that this subject have be bring forward to be debate today , because a subject as important as this deserve to be thoroughly discuss in the House . as this be my first debate as shadow Minister for the Cabinet Office , I want to put on the record that although there will be much that the right hon . Gentleman and I disagree on , this issue be not one of they . he can be sure of our support as he work to put right a historical wrong , which continue to have a devastating impact on family across the country . this issue be simply beyond party politic . I thank the Paymaster General for update the House today , and for the tone and tenor that he have already strike in this place since the general election . the infected blood inquiry , establish in 2017 by the former Prime Minister Theresa May , be only start because of the tireless effort of victim and their family , but it have shed a horrifying light on the true scale of the tragedy . I echo the Paymaster General ' s thank to Sir Brian and his team for the great service that they have give in conduct the inquiry . it stand as a testament to the power of the victim ' voice and to the need for transparency , justice and accountability at all level . although I be here today on behalf of his Majesty ' s Opposition , I want to reiterate the word of the previous Prime Minister , my right hon . friend the Member for Richmond and Northallerton ( Rishi Sunak ) , who apologise on behalf of not only the previous Government , but government stretch back to the 1970 . I know that this sentiment be share by the current Leader of the Opposition and the whole of our party . we be truly sorry that successive government and the NHS fail to listen to medical expert , victim and their family , and the inquiry reveal a decade - long moral failure at the heart of our national life . a great many of its victim and love one sadly die before they ever see the truth be acknowledge . I be pleased that this Government and the previous Government have publicly recognise the scale of the damage and acknowledge the mistake , and , most importantly , be now take step to try to make amend and provide support and compensation for the many victim . we on this side of the House will continue to support the Government ' s ambition to make the first payment before the end of this year . it be important that the Government be push ahead with the compensation scheme , which be of the size and scale that be rightfully deserve by the victim , include those who be sadly now deceased , and their family , and that it will take into account all the medical , financial and emotional suffering . as I have say , the Minister will have our full support on this side of the House . an apology be , as he have say , meaningless without not just redress but redress at speed . in addition , I hope that the right hon . Gentleman will be work far with the Health Secretary to help implement strong medical screening protocol , as well as safety measure to ensure that the UK ' s blood supply continue to be safe and free from contamination . a scandal like this can not be allow to happen again , so the Government must continue to ensure that the global standard for blood safety be meet and regularly update . this include improve regulation , where appropriate , around the sourcing of blood product , and constantly update , where possible , the method for virus detection . it be also important that we far enhance training and education for our healthcare professional regard ethical practice , patient consent and the safe use of medical product . I know that a lot have change in the national health service in the nearly 50 year since the start of the scandal , but a key aspect of this total failure be the lack of informed consent and the failure of healthcare professional to adequately communicate the risk associate with treatment . as the inquiry have show , there be numerous case of disrespectful attitude towards infected patient , which be completely unacceptable . patient be often blame for their condition or treat as though they be a burden . as the inquiry have recommend , training must include the ethic procedure as well as patient - centre care . this scandal , sadly , be a painful case study on what happen when this be not the case . medical staff in the NHS should always approach patient with dignity and empathy , as we know they almost all do on a daily basis . they should ensure that all risk and benefit be clearly communicate and that the right of patient be uphold . add to this point , and perhaps more broadly as a society , we must continue the great work of recent year on destigmatise those with condition such as HIV and hepatitis — I note the exceptional work of the Terrence Higgins Trust on the former in particular . as have be say , the victim of the infected blood scandal be victim not only of the NHS and the many government ' failing , but of social stigma and discrimination . as the inquiry find , they face vilification despite the fact that many have receive contaminate blood product through the same nhs that be blame they through no fault of their own . I encourage the Government to continue with public education campaign to combat the stigma surround blood - bear virus and HIV , as well as implement well protection in the workplace and public life , so that we can be sure that those infect be not subject to the pain of further discrimination . I would like to put on record my own thank to the brave victim and their family . as I say at the start of my speech , we would not be here today if it be not for they and for their campaigning ; their hard work ; their faith to keep go when nothing seem to be change ; and , when the message simply do not seem to be get through , their relentless will to fight , know that a great injustice have be do ; and their love for their friend and family member , many of whom be sadly no long with we today , who be all impact by this terrible situation . their courage be truly awe - inspire , and no amount of compensation will ever undo the great tragedy , so great be the pain and suffering they have be through . I sincerely hope that they will have some peace one day ; peace in the knowledge that their Government and their health service have listen , and that all their hard year of campaigning , and the abuse and vile vitriol that many have face , be not for nothing . in the end , after far too long , they have indeed be hear , and because of all their combine effort and sacrifice , we can now come together to ensure that nothing like this ever happen again . they have move the nation and this Parliament with their deeply personal story , and we be all deeply sorry for everything they have be through and for everything and everyone they have lose . I thank they all for their extraordinary bravery . in the past three year alone , I have speak in this House at least 10 time about the delay that the victim of contaminate blood have face in obtain the justice and compensation they deserve . progress have be painfully slow and , as my right hon . friend the Paymaster General say , there be much anger , frustration and mistrust for we to deal with , as it have not go away . it have not be dilute by the general election , and those seek compensation be rightly angry and mistrustful . in May 2024 , the inquiry find that more than 3 , 000 people have sadly die as a result of this scandal . roughly one victim die every two day , many without receive compensation . I would not like to calculate how many people have die since I first speak about contaminate blood in the House . my right hon . friend mention further legislation and , between now and then , more people will sadly pass on as a result of this scandal . I appreciate that my right hon . friend have have only a few month to try to rectify the consequence of the previous Government ' s slow response to Sir Brian Langstaff ' s demand . again , I urge my right hon . friend to do everything in his power to ensure that the Infected Blood Compensation Authority hire the staff need to address the challenge and to design the procedure require with the utmost urgency . I be sure that my right hon . friend have get the message . I have speak in the House many time of my constituent Sean Cavens , who be one of the young people in the country to be infect with hepatitis C as a result of be give contaminate blood . he have campaign tirelessly on behalf of fellow victim of the scandal . many people have die wait for justice . at the current rate of settle claim , which be another huge issue , victim and other be concerned that many more people will die without see a ha ' penny of compensation for themselves or their family . they question whether the Government be act quickly enough , with only 270 claim expect to be deal with by the end of the financial year and more than 4 , 500 claim in limbo . I share their concern ; I be not sure if that be good enough . Sean be now 43 year of age . he be infect with hepatitis C and other virus in 1983 . he wonder where he fit in the selection process . he will not be alone in wonder whether he must simply hang on and hope to survive long enough to see justice do for he and his family . while the scheme currently have no effect on payment make through the infected blood support scheme , that will cease to be the case in the new financial year . I hope my right hon . friend the Minister will review that approach and extend the deadline , so that people who receive payment after 31 March 2025 do not see that deduct from compensation through the new scheme . will my right hon . friend the Minister consider that point ? fundamentally , Sean and other be concerned that those currently on the infected blood support scheme be not automatically be offer the core route payment . they wonder why they can not be offer a lump sum payment equivalent to payment up to the average life expectancy of 86 . they be also concerned that the rate of compensation to be offer be rumour — I emphasise the word " rumour " — to be only 20 % of current annual payment . I be sure that will be outline by my right hon . friend in his wind - up speech . the uncertainty about the compensation scheme ' s date of infection criterion be cause concern for victim . the burden of proof for those who be infect after screen for relevant virus begin be deem by the Infected Blood Compensation Authority to be " high " , but without any clarification on what that actually mean in practice . will the Minister provide such clarification ? screening begin for HIV in November 1985 and for hepatitis C in September 1991 , but for hepatitis B it be as early as December 1972 . as I mention , Sean be infect with hepatitis B in 1983 . he need to know how that will affect his final compensation . for instance , will the IBCA take into account that the screening test for hepatitis B in 1983 be estimate to have be only 43 % effective ? will the ibca recognise that victim be treat for hepatitis C with the retroviral drug Interferon , which have well know serious side effect on patient ' mental health ? will that be reflect in their compensation ? will the Minister confirm that Sir Brian Langstaff ' s recent guidance , contain in his letter date 13 November 2024 , regard the sibling of victim who deserve compensation , will be accept by the IBCA and reflect in any compensation scheme that it design ? will , as Sir Brian have recommend , any family member whose relationship be " so close " to the victim that damage to their own mental or physical health cause by witness their sibling ' s suffer be " reasonably " foreseeable receive full compensation , if they be so damaged ? it have be report that the ibca will only compensate sibling of victim if they live with the victim in the family unit for a full two year . will the Minister ensure that that arbitrary restriction be not contain in any IBCA compensation scheme ? will the Minister confirm that the family of any victim who die before his or her application to the IBCA have be complete will receive full compensation ? there be indication that the ibca interpret the inquiry ' s final report as say the contrary — that it intend to pay only those who live long enough to receive a final reward . that can not , in any way , shape or form , be correct . it be not fair and it be not just . will the Minister ensure that those who , as child , be purposefully infect with contaminate blood in the name of medical research be award enhance punitive level of compensation , to reflect the country ' s abhorrence at such horrific criminal behaviour , carry out by medical professional who have swear to dedicate themselves to heal the sick ? that be one thing I just can not understand . the whole tragic scandal be an absolute disgrace , but it be really abhorrent that this great country of our experiment on little child . those child , many of whom have not survive , deserve the compensation . how much they should be award be obviously to be determine , as have be state , but bear in mind the abhorrent nature of what we have do as a nation , I ask the Minister to ensure it be enough . the infected and contaminate blood scandal be just one of far too many injustice in the UK in recent decade , in which powerful people have treat institutional reputation , career prospect and , in a number of case , profit as be more important than working - class life . hillsborough , Orgreave , the postal service Horizon scandal and Grenfell all share this shameful characteristic : each one send out a message that ordinary working - class life do not matter . the Minister can take this opportunity to show that this Labour Government think that the life of ordinary people matter by ensure that the victim of contaminate blood product receive just and meaningful compensation without any further unconscionable delay . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I be grateful for the opportunity to speak in this incredibly important debate . I begin by pay tribute to all those who have their life destroy by the infected blood scandal , and everyone who have campaign for justice . they include my constituent Gary Webster . for those who be not familiar with his story , Gary be bear with haemophilia , and at the age of nine he be send to Treloar ' s college , a specialist boarding school in Hampshire . his parent hope that the school ' s on - site medical facility would enable Gary to lead as normal and happy a childhood as possible . all the boy at the school and their parent trust the doctor who see they implicitly , but in fact , the boy be be give contaminate factor viii blood product import from the US . Gary be in his final year at school when he be tell that he have be infect with HIV / AIDS and hepatitis , and that there be no guarantee that he would be alive in six to 12 month . of the 122 haemophiliac boy who attend Treloar ' s between 1973 and 1986 , 80 have since die . the infected blood inquiry report by Sir Brian Langstaff find that " death , illness and suffering be cause needlessly to people with bleed disorder by … treat child at Treloar ' s with multiple , risky , commercial concentrate , prophylactically and as object for research " and " treat child unnecessarily with concentrate ( especially commercial one ) rather than choose safe treatment . " one can only imagine the pain of the survivor and all the family , and it beggar belief that it have take so long for they to get justice . the thousand of victim of the infected blood scandal and their family from across the UK have be wait far too long for justice , accountability and compensation . the Liberal Democrats welcome the introduction of the infected blood compensation scheme . we be glad that it will bring the victim of this gross miscarriage of justice , include those who be infect and those who have be affect , close to the justice that they deserve . it be crucial that this compensation scheme be implement as quickly and effectively as possible . we be also back call by the survivor for a duty of candour on all public official . the infected blood scandal campaign organisation Factor 8 have highlight that the guidance on the Infected Blood Compensation Authority website state : " should an eligible affected person die during the application process to the Scheme , their compensation award will not be pay . this be in line with the Inquiry ' s recommendation . " however , Factor 8 have examine the inquiry ' s second interim report , and in the summary of conclusion , on page 14 , at conclusion t ) , Sir Brian Langstaff say : " where an affected person who have not make a claim die , the sum that they might have receive if they have claim should not become part of their estate . " the key wording be " who have not make a claim " . will the Government update their policy and ensure that all affected person who make an eligible claim have their claim honour ? that be important for those affect who be elderly or ill , and be concerned that they may not live to see the end result of the claim process . I hope the Minister will look at that as a matter of urgency . the infected blood scandal have highlight the importance of robust blood safety measure and tool . will the Government look into the merit of pathogen inactivation technology to ensure that no one else unnecessarily suffer from infected blood , and that we have a safe , reliable supply of blood product ? I speak with Gary Webster on Friday , and as he put it , " the whole process need speed up " . after so many year of secrecy , deceit and delay , the Government must ensure full transparency about the progress of the scheme , and open , ongoing communication with all those affect . as for the family who have be impact by this appalling scandal , please give they a national memorial , and reassurance that measure will be put in place to ensure that nothing like this can ever happen again . I call Michael Payne to make his maiden speech . it be the honour of my life to speak for the first time in this House as the Member of Parliament for my home town of Gedling . to be give the opportunity to represent my neighbour and the place I be proud to call home in the great democratic Chamber in the world be a tremendous privilege and responsibility . to the people of Gedling who send I here to speak up for they , thank you . I be eternally grateful for their support and trust . in my time in this House , I shall work tirelessly to repay that trust , represent each and every one of they to the very good of my ability . my immediate predecessor be Tom Randall . he and I have our difference , but the fact that two young boy who grow up in Arnold and attend Redhill comprehensive school go on to represent their home town in Parliament say so much about the power of education and the value of our democracy , both of which must be cherish and protect . in particular , I thank Tom for his work in stand up for Hongkongers in Gedling and across the United Kingdom . at the count on election night , I promise that I would continue that important work , and I be pleased to be able to restate that promise on the Floor of the House today . in 1997 , Gedling elect its first Labour MP , my friend Vernon Coaker , now Lord Coaker . for 22 year , Vernon serve the people of gedle with distinction . he be widely respect across this House , just as he be now in the other place . as a kid grow up in Gedling , I be inspire by Vernon visit my school , so I would like to place on record my thank to Vernon and his wife Jackie for their service to Gedling . since the general election , as I have listen to inspire contribution from member across the House , I have be constantly remind that the privilege of be elect to this House bring with it a duty to speak up for those who feel voiceless , powerless and ignore — people like my auntie , Tara Payne , whose first husband , Thomas Muir , die on 1 August 2013 at just 55 year of age , a victim of the infected blood scandal . Thomas and ten of thousand of other lose their life because their country fail they . it be only because of the courage , perseverance and resilience of those affect and their family that this Government finally commit to compensate they for this horrify injustice . the victim of the infected blood scandal learn through heartbreaking experience that the word of Martin Luther King be as true today as when he first speak they : " injustice anywhere be a threat to justice everywhere . " thirty - six year ago , if you have tell the young working - class boy grow up in a terrace house in Arnold , just outside of Nottingham , that he would one day be represent the place he owe everything to in the United Kingdom Parliament , he would never have believe it , and I still do not today . the value that our great country and this Parliament stand for , and the parliamentarian and trailblazer who have go before we , mean that kid from background like mine can achieve their dream and ambition , irrespective of their birthright . during my time in this House , I promise to do all I can to ensure that child in Gedling and across our country have the good possible start in life and be give the support and education to realise their dream and their full potential , because if we be not here in this House to leave a well society for future generation , what be we here for at all ? I be only able to stand here and speak from these Benches today for three reason : a love family , an excellent education and a wonderful community . let I begin with the community that I be proud to call home . gedle be a constituency that may not be know by its name , but it certainly should be know by its nature : a beautiful collection of town and village to the north - east of the city of Nottingham and border the bank of the River Trent . it be surround by the historical footprint of the ancient Sherwood forest and the rural beauty of Nottinghamshire county . my home town of Arnold be a market town with a proud history of hosiery . it be the centre of the framework knitting industry in the 19th century , and the site of the first frame - break incident of the luddite riot in March 1811 — not that I agree with the rioter ' view on technology in the workplace , but their cause , increase pay and condition and improve living standard , be just as important today as it be then . that be why I be proud to serve as part of a Government who be introduce the big advance in worker ’ right for a generation . the town of Carlton be once home to a thriving textile industry , and be famous for its brickwork , as well as be home to the late , great actor Richard Beckinsale . it be now primarily residential , as be the small railway town of Netherfield , the beautiful village of Colwick and the bustling high - street community of Mapperley and Porchester . gedle be also home to several picturesque village that form part of rural nottinghamshire : Burton Joyce , Stoke Bardolph , Lambley , Woodborough and the former mining village of Bestwood , where the original 1876 victorian wind engine house still stand in its full glory , thank to the work of the wind engine house volunteer group and friend of Bestwood Country Park . at the heart of the constituency be the historical village from which the constituency take its name : gedle . it be home to all Hallows church , whose beautiful spire be an inspiration to one of the architect of this Palace , Augustus Pugin . all Hallows stand proudly in the landscape of its surrounding and at the foot of the former gedle colliery . gedle colliery be one of the most important colliery in Nottinghamshire , and be know as the pit of nation in honour of its diverse workforce , include from the Windrush generation . it be there that my grandad serve as a coal miner . I still remember the tear in his eye when , on the 25th anniversary of the colliery ' s closure , I accompany he and his fellow former coal miner on a visit to gedle country park , which now stand in the place of the colliery , and which I be proud to play a part in create as deputy leader of Gedling borough council . the miner of our past power this country ' s future . we owe they an eternal debt of gratitude . that be why I be so proud be part of a Government who be finally end the miner ' pension injustice . my family have live in gedle for generation . they mean everything to I . I grow up in a home where hard work , respect , play by the rule and honesty mean everything . those be value that matter to most family , and they be the value that will guide I during my time in this place . grow up as the son of a mechanic , watch my dad work hard at three job just to keep a roof over my head and pay the bill , I learn the meaning of hard work and the true meaning of family . grow up watch my grandad and nana spend many year raise much - need fund for Derrymount school — a school for child with special educational need and disability — I learn the meaning of compassion and never look down on anyone . grow up as the son of a mum who go without so that I could be the first in my family to go to university , I learn the meaning of true love and selflessness . my politic and belief be important to I , but , like million of other people across this country , nothing be more important to I than my family . it be for that reason that make this maiden speech have not be easy . there be two people I desperately wish be watch from the Public Gallery today : John Herbert Waplington and Joan Edna Waplington — my grandad and my nana . their love and compassion , and the value that they and my parent teach I , be the reason I be who I be today . they be the reason I believe in help other . my nana and grandad be so proud to see I elect to serve my home community on Gedling borough council in May 2011 , and they would have be even prouder to see I elect to this place to serve our home community . it be true that love really be the great gift that one generation can leave to another , and I be forever bless to have be love by they both . gedle be full of people with compassion and a desire to serve other . I have have the privilege of meeting so many of they over the year . Helen Lloyd and the volunteer at Arnold food bank ; Tina Simpson and the team at Netherfield St George ' s Centre ; Nathan Kenney and Mapperley all Stars ; Joel Baldry and the team at the Ark in Gedling ; the friend of Gedling Country Park ; Daybrook bowl club , which be celebrate its centenary this year ; the wonderful musician of Burton Joyce community brass , and many more extraordinary people and group , make Gedling such a wonderful community . gedle be also home to brilliant school with inspirational teacher and staff . I spend many happy year at Richard Bonington primary school and Redhill comprehensive school . like so many other across the country , I owe so much to my teacher for their encouragement , support and inspiration . be elect to serve my home town in this place be the second great moment of my life . the first be marry my husband , Kyle Robinson - Payne , on 1 July 2022 . I be delighted that he be in the Public Gallery today , just as he have be with I on every step of my journey to this place . we live in a world where far too many people continue to be persecute for who they be and who they love . for as long as I be in this place , I will use this platform to speak up for they and their right . as our much - miss and beautiful friend Jo Cox teach we , whatever our difference , we always have so much more in common than that which divide we . may I first commend the hon . member for Gedling ( Michael Payne ) for his maiden speech ? I think we can all agree that it be very moving , and that he do great credit to his family and constituent . I apologise for not have be here for the first few minute ; I be run over from Portcullis House . I have the privilege of be the Minister with responsibility for the infected blood compensation scheme . on 21 May , I bring the scheme to the Floor of the House , speak from the Government Dispatch Box . in the six month prior , I have be determine — not know when the election would be call — to do everything I could to bring that compensation scheme to life after so much delay . that delay have be , as the hon . member for Blyth and Ashington ( Ian Lavery ) rightly say , totally unacceptable for too long . in my remark to the House , I will pay tribute to the victim , explain some of my experience as a Minister , and make some observation on what lesson and next step may need to take place . first , I acknowledge the work of my successor as Paymaster General , the right hon . member for Torfaen ( Nick Thomas - Symonds ) . he have do virtually everything that I would have do , have the electorate overall give we a different outcome . though I will always be available to member of the public to ask question in this House , as be my responsibility as an Opposition back - Bench MP , I believe that he be do everything he can to move the scheme forward as quickly as possible , and I will come on to the mechanic of that in a moment . during the month of May , I participate in 18 meeting . I meet representative of 40 group in London , Leeds , Birmingham , Cardiff , Belfast and Edinburgh . each meeting be a profoundly emotional and move moment for I and the official who accompany I . I meet people who have go through unimaginable suffering and uncertainty for not just a matter of month , but , in some case , a number of decade . some have be infect through their marriage . some have be bear as haemophiliac and have be treat in way that have the consequence we have speak about today . some have transfusion when give birth to their child . some receive blood transfusion from import that prove to be defective . some have hepatitis C or hepatitis B . some have HIV . many have a combination of different condition . some have be family member of those who have be infect . it be a humbling but tragic set of moment . in those conversation , I look those individual in the eye and say , " I be deeply sorry on behalf of the british state . " it be a great privilege to be ask to do that on behalf of his Majesty ' s Government , but we must learn lesson collectively from the endure failure to come to term with what have happen over the course of so many government and so many decade . many of the individual I meet have campaign relentlessly , and I pay tribute to they today . I will not draw on individual name , because there be just so many people , and it would be unfair to all those whom I meet . it be right that we bring forward a second interim payment , and it be right that we recognise the affected community as well as the infected community . it be tragic to see that there be sometimes dispute and division among many of the community , because so much time have pass and so much fear exist around who would be look after first , and about whether there would therefore be constraint on the money available . I will step back to last year . after the remembrance weekend in 2023 , I be ask to move from my long tenure in different role in the Treasury to the Cabinet Office to become Paymaster General . the year before , I have have some exposure to the challenge of make provision for compensation , and my immediate predecessor , the former Member for Horsham , have do a lot to try to ascertain what have be do collectively in government . the truth be that there be a very wide envelope : it may have be between £ 2 billion and £ 20 billion , and it have move around accord to what analysis could be do . that be because the parameter be fundamentally go to be base on how much compensation we would pay the different group who be infect and affect . my predecessor start that process , and I pay tribute to he for what he do . I also pay tribute to the former Chancellor , my right hon . friend the Member for Godalming and Ash ( Jeremy Hunt ) , who say to I when I leave the Treasury , " you have one duty in that job . that be a moral duty to resolve the compensation scheme . " I honestly believe that he be critical in ensure that we get to where we do on 21 May . I pay tribute , too , to the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North and Cottingham ( Dame Diana Johnson ) , who do so much . at every question session , she sit just behind where I stand now , challenge I on what I be or be not do . as the Paymaster General know too well , there be always constraint ; his official will say , " I wouldn ' t say that at this point . " we be always try to say more , but I be acutely aware of how frustrated all the community be , and that unless what I say be crystal clear , it would set off another storm of speculation on social medium . on the advice of my official , I appoint Sir Jonathan Montgomery , who in the early month of 2024 assemble a small group of technical expert to advise on how to translate the compensation study of Sir Robert Francis into a full compensation scheme . we ask how , across the five head of loss — injury impact , social impact , autonomy , the care award and the financial loss award — we could put a number on the relative suffering across all the different condition . how could we put a number on the loss of a normal life , the loss of the ability to work , the loss of a sense of respect from the community in which people live , and the stigma that other member have refer to ? it be suggest to I at the time that I have do it the wrong way round — that I should have engage with the community . I take the view that we be not go to get this resolve if we have do it that way round , but I know it be critically important for all the community to be engage with , and I always have that expectation and intention . that be why , when I announce the scheme to the House on 21 May , I establish a series of engagement where Sir Robert Francis meet representative of the infected and affected community to go through the scheme and establish where change need to be make . those engagement happen in June . I pay tribute to my successor , the Paymaster General , who engage with the output of that work and — as per the timetable that have be agree — make virtually all of the change that be request . today , understandably , I hear speed be urge across the House — that this should happen quick to get the payment make . I totally understand that , and to some extent , I agree with it . however , I want to reassure the House that David Foley , who be now set up and , I think , head up the Infected Blood Compensation Authority as an arm ' s length body of Government , be a superbly experienced civil servant . neither I nor the Minister could have write the cheque ourselves to set up the process and system for evaluate entitlement and get money out as quickly as possible . for those infect individual who be alive — around 4 , 000 — speed be obviously an imperative . the reason I take the decision on the £ 210 , 000 second interim payment , alongside the £ 100 , 000 from October 2022 , be that I receive advice , and I press and challenge my official to get to a number that be the maximum that everyone would receive . however , it be of course wholly necessary not just to get a first tranche fully pay out , but to get everyone else pay out . I acknowledge that there be question about how to verify the date of infection , but despite all the bad thing that have happen , obviously we must reconcile speed and effective decision make with ensure that we pay the people who be entitle to the payment . in Sir Brian Langstaff ' s seven - volume report , of which I go to see the publication on Monday 20 May , he make a number of recommendation , and the Minister have indicate the Government ' s willingness to honour those — the national memorial , and biannual meeting with those who have suffer in order to get to grip with the duty of candour . I want we as a House to be clear and honest about what we be really ask for , because the report span decade and different generation of Ministers , civil servant and orthodoxy in the medical profession . we need to encourage curiosity among individual who see thing go wrong but be hold back from be truly candid because there tend to be group - think which prevent a thorough interrogation of what should be do . distortion happen , recollection have varied and medical professional would make different judgment now from those they would have make at different point in the past . we need to be wise about what the duty of candour will look like , but we need to grasp the core argument that Brian Langstaff make : we have to change the culture across Government and public service and in politic . I hope the Minister do not move on , but if he do , I hope he move up . if he stay in his position , however , he can have an impact over time . when minister move , they have a receive wisdom from their official of a previous iteration , and we sometimes need to encourage the infusion of new Ministers to ask challenge question and allow progress to be make . I have profound concern about public inquiry . a lot have be say in recent month about the multiple public inquiry that have occur — how we can make they more systematic and align ; the secretariat and the process they run can obviously be streamline . they be present as the only cathartic method for the british state to come to term with something that have go wrong , and they be often not constrain in any way . they be typically lead by retire High Court judge , and I have nothing against they , but we sometimes need to broaden the expertise such as by have economist and other people involve in look at these thing . I pay tribute to Brian Langstaff , because the inquiry be a massive undertaking , but seven year be an enormous amount of time . I be not an expert on this , but let we think about the read - across to the covid inquiry . many people have expectation of what that will deliver , but in other country such analysis have bring forward recommendation and change much more quickly . we have to get the balance right — not to cover up anything , but because we end up put thing into the long grass for so long . we as a Parliament need to come to term with that . I have probably speak for too long , but I hope I can be forgive for do so give the role I have . I want to pay tribute to the work that have be do by those responsible for bring we to this point . I pay tribute to all the victim and campaigner who have be so determined despite numerous knock - back from government over the year . my own Government absolutely have to take their full share of the blame . interim arrangement be make and ad hoc compensation scheme be set up , but responsibility be not take by the british state , and it be absolutely right that we have do so now . I do not think that social medium be very helpful in try to come to term with the trauma of all this , or in give clarity to those who need it . I wish David Foley and the ibca well . I think there will be a series of letter about how to interpret individual recommendation , but he be set up an efficient mechanism which , once it start deliver , will deliver more and more rapidly — I be convince of that . for some it can not come soon enough , but I hope that very soon we can draw the right endure lesson from this national scandal , and I hope it will never happen again . I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Gedling ( Michael Payne ) for his maiden speech . it be clearly special for he to represent the area in which he grow up . he have so much personal experience and memory , and he speak passionately about his family . I be sure they be very proud of he today , and that he will be an excellent representative for Gedling . I remember his Labour predecessor well . we be both elect on the same day , and perhaps I can challenge my hon . friend a little and say that he have big boot to fill as his predecessor be an excellent member of Parliament . it be worth remind ourselves of how we get to this stage . in spite of everything we have hear about the excellent progress be make in response to Sir Brian Langstaff ' s report , there be still an enormous amount of frustration out there among victim and their family . in the 1970 and 1980 , as many as 6 , 000 people with haemophilia and other bleed disorder be treat with factor concentrate contaminate with HIV and hepatitis viruse . almost all of they be infect with hepatitis C , and around 1 , 250 people , include 380 child , be also infect with HIV . some of those unintentionally infect their partner or other family member . More than three quarter of those infect with HIV have since die , as have around one third of those infect with hepatitis C . of those still alive , many be in poor health due to liver damage , or from live with long - term HIV . additionally , around 26 , 800 people be give blood transfusion that be infect with hepatitis C . all that be avoidable . by the 1970 , blood and blood product be already know to transfer virus . it be know that the use of pool blood product significantly increase the risk of infection . those risk be ignore by lead clinician , Ministers and civil servant , and they fail to take appropriate action to end the use of those product and ensure the use of safe product . pharmaceutical company and lead clinician do not share appropriate information about risk with patient and patient group . they fail in their duty of candour . it be no wonder that the victim of those crime mistrust the state — the state that should be there for they , to protect they and be on their side . we be here because , despite many die along the way , and with one victim die every four day , the survive victim refuse to give up . they refuse to be defeat . they win their battle , and over and above that they win the right to be include in the decision , as Sir Brian Langstaff make clear in his report . all along , the victim have be lie to , refuse access to information , their record have mysteriously go missing , and more recently they have find themselves repeatedly let down by the Government , it have to be say , in the form of the Cabinet Office . the Cabinet Office control the decision of the Infected Blood Compensation Authority . I hear what the Paymaster General and Minister for the Cabinet Office say to I early about operational independence , but ultimately the Cabinet Office be make the decision and victim be not include in the way that Sir Brian recommend . victim feel that decision be be make without their involvement . those suffer with hepatitis C feel particularly exclude and do not feel that their suffering have be fully recognise in the compensation scheme . in his interim report , Sir Brian Langstaff say that there should be an arm ' s length body . I will not read the whole recommendation , but he say : " I recommend that an Arms Length Body … should be set up to administer the compensation scheme , with guarantee independence of judgement , chair by a judge of High Court or Court of Session status as sole decision maker " . the report go on to state that the body should " involve potentially eligible person and their representative amongst those in a small advisory panel , and in the review and improvement of the scheme ; and … permit the hearing of applicant in person . " none of that be part of the compensation process , yet it be clearly there in the report , and it be Sir Brian Langstaff ' s intention that the victim should be involve much more . in term of listen to the victim , there be an extensive consultation exercise during the general election campaign . my predecessor set that up , and it continue under the aegis of civil servant in that period . afterwards , 74 recommendation be make , have listen to the community about change the scheme . the Government accept the implementation of 69 of those 74 recommendation . I suggest to my hon . friend that that show listen to the concern about the scheme ' s original formation . in respect of the Infected Blood Compensation Authority , I strongly recommend that he , as chair of the APPG , meet Sir Robert Francis and David Foley . he can speak to they about precisely the involvement of the infected blood community , which be hugely important . I be fully aware of the consultation that take place , but what Sir Brian Langstaff describe be the ongoing involvement of the victim in the process , by their be part of an advisory panel and continue to advise the compensation board . I know that David Foley be at the conference at the weekend for the organisation that represent people with hepatitis . that organisation be pleased with the discussion it have with he , but none the less and in spite of that , people who be at that conference have since make clear to I that they feel frustrated and that , ultimately , the Cabinet Office be in control of the decision - make process . my right hon . friend may take issue with that , but he should take note of the fact that that belief be out there , and we need to deal with it . the hon . Gentleman be right to labour the point . all that we be hear from the representative group — those who make sure that they represent all those in the infected or affected community — be that they want consultation with Government . they just want to be listen to and properly consult as all these regulation be design go forward . the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right . I do not understand the Minister ' s sensitivity around all this . he have to be aware — I be pretty certain that he be — that there be this sensitivity when it come to the community . I could not agree more with the hon . Gentleman . I be try to make my right hon . friend the Paymaster General aware of the strength of feel out there that need to be address . we will not satisfy people about the process unless we address those concern . one thing drive that concern be that the current process be not what be describe in Sir Brian ' s report , and it be not what be expect at the time he publish his report . the victim and their representative feel exclude . on top of that , they feel enfeeble because of the lack of resource for advice and advocacy . there be furth to go , if the victim be to have complete faith in the process . there be frustration that the people they have be battle against have be put in charge of the reparation . surely my right hon . friend can see their concern . the death rate be now one every three day , and the increase in the rate be largely due to the fact that those with hepatitis have be suffer with long - term chronic liver disease . the Red Book for the Budget set out that compensation will be pay over five year . at that rate , another 600 people will die without get justice . the Treasury must not become another reason for justice for victim be delay . will my right hon . friend guarantee that that will not be the case ? I be aware that Sir Brian Langstaff have write to my right hon . friend about the rule on sibling of 18 year of age at the time the sibling pass away . will he explain to the House — or write to I on this — exactly where that ruling come from ? it do not seem to appear in any of the recommendation or in Sir Brian ' s report . I have speak before about the £ 15 , 000 offer to former pupil of Treloar school , which they consider derisory . it be another example of what happen when victim be exclude from the process . I also draw my right hon . friend ' s attention to the report of the Secondary Legislation Scrutiny Committee , which be an excoriate criticism of the Cabinet Office . it expose what it describe as a lack of clear and understandable information in the explanatory memorandum and a lack of preparedness for deliver the compensation scheme . the Committee doubt that the Cabinet Office will be able to pay compensation by the end of the year . be he confident that the Committee be wrong and that payment will be make by the end of the year ? lastly , large amount of money be make by pharmaceutical company and other while victim be be exploit and , in some case , even be experiment on . that do not come about because of mistake ; they be deliberate action , which in many instance be criminal . the british taxpayer must not pay the full cost alone . those who make money from this appalling scandal should be require to make a significant contribution . in spite of what my right hon . friend may consider a negative speech , I welcome the progress that we have make , but there be much furth to go to deliver the justice that Sir Brian Langstaff set out in his report . it be always difficult to follow somebody who have say almost exactly what I have intend to say in my speech . what I will try to do for you , Madam Deputy Speaker , be rephrase it in a way that will hopefully be helpful and useful to the House . I be grateful to follow the hon . member for Eltham and Chislehurst ( Clive Efford ) , who raise a number of really important issue about which those on the Government Front Bench should listen carefully . I notice the Paymaster General ' s reaction to the hon . member for Eltham and Chislehurst ; he have get to relax a little . we be try to help and to be the voice of the community , who be tell we these thing . they want to be engage and properly consult with . they want to be part of the process . that be what they be tell the all - party parliamentary group on haemophilia and contaminate blood , and that be what we be hear from all the representative group right across the United Kingdom . perhaps the Paymaster General should just take on board some of the thing that we be try to put forward about the feeling and opinion of a lot of the community and what they be say to we directly as a consequence of what be happen . I congratulate the Government on honour their commitment to have a debate . it be a pity that we do not get the full day , but one thing I have notice be that it be get a bit quieter in the Chamber when we have these debate and statement . I hope that there will not be fatigue when it come to discuss important issue relate to the infected blood scandal , as we as a House will need a detailed approach to the ongoing compensation scheme . I really hope that we will not get to a stage where the Government see this as " job do " and another box to be tick , think , " there we go : infect blood be deal with and we can now move on . " it be incumbent on all of we who be involve in the campaign to ensure that we continue to press the Government , ensure that we talk up on behalf of our constituent and those impact and affect . I really hope that we start to see some new Labour Members , in particular , take a big interest — we use to have really involve , detailed debate where people turn up and play their part — as I be sure that many of they represent people who be impact and affect . it would be good to see a few of they turn up . I think it be it be a good sign that there be few member of Parliament in the Chamber , because it show that there have be meaningful progress . I do not see tetchiness from the Minister ; what I see be somebody who have listen carefully to the representation of the community and act on they . I accept and acknowledge that there be outstanding matter , but actually , when infrastructure have be set up — in some case for 20 year — to campaign , it can be quite difficult to adjust to delivery mode . there be no one in the House more experienced than the right hon . Gentleman . I pay tribute to what he do in government and how he bring this issue forward . he be right ; we must be a bit careful , but all of we involve be just try to take the debate forward . he be possibly right that there may be satisfaction that thing have move on and we be at a different stage in the campaign , but it be still important that we continue to ask question of Government . that be what we be all try to do in this debate . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will , so long as the hon . member do not poke I in the back , as he do the other evening . my constituent have mention an outstanding issue that must be address . current proposal only include sibling who be under the age 18 and live in the same household as an infected person for at least two year after the onset of the infection . the requirement for sibling to have live in the same house should be remove . do the hon . Gentleman agree that the loss and suffering of a sibling who do not live in the same household for two year be no less than that of a sibling who do ? I do , and I be happy that my speech have provide the hon . gentleman with another opportunity to make one of his intervention , as he do in practically every debate that he attend . he make a good point , which the House have now hear . I want to reinforce the point about IBCA ' s arm ' s length process . the hon . member for Eltham and Chislehurst be right that it be abundantly clear , in both the interim and the full report , that there be a general expectation that ibca will be truly at arm ' s length , divorced and separate from the Government . we can not get into the head of Sir Brian Langstaff when he design the scheme , but I think that he expect there to be a proper arm ' s length body that would be responsible to Parliament , not Government . what we have be the other way around , and that will probably be okay , but for extra security , those of we who be interested would like to make sure that it be properly independent , accord to Sir Brian Langstaff ' s original intention . as long as there be a sense that this be a government - influence body , there will be continue suspicion — from a community that have be let down so badly for decade by decision maker and Government — that this be the same old approach that we have see in the past . I ask the Minister to find a way to ensure that we get that proper judge - lead , arm ' s length body that be responsible to we as the representative of the people of the United Kingdom , and not just exclusively to Government . I have no issue with all the tribute that people have make to David Foley and all the other people involve , because they have be fantastic , but we be already begin to see Cabinet Office - base appointment come through for ibca . again , we be not really see consultation with those at the sharp end of all this . we need some more of that . Sir Brian Langstaff say that two expert panel — one represent the legal part of the issue , and the other the health part — would work almost simultaneously and in concert with each other , to feed back to the chair of the board . it would be good to see that start to emerge . he also say — not as clearly , but it be intend — that an expert panel would comprise those represent the community , both the infected and the affected . they would have a similar role to feed into the chair of IBCA . I hope that some of that will happen . there be widespread support for what this Government have do , and £ 11 . 8 billion be a significant sum that everyone be confident will go most of the way towards meet the compensation expectation , but there be issue . member have touch on some of they . I will rattle through they — I do not want to detain the House and I have raise they before — but I just want to make sure that we do touch on they . the hon . member for Eltham and Chislehurst be absolutely right that the £ 15 , 000 for those catch up in unethical research be far too low . this be come back to all of we again , so I really hope we be able to revisit that . then there be those who be treat with interferon as a matter of course . they have not be properly and fully include in the compensation scheme , so again I hope the Government be able to look at that . there be concern that hepatitis c payment banding do not match and reflect the suffering cause . that be what I have be hear from constituent involve in the campaign , so I hope the Government will be able to look at that . there be the issue about bereaved parent and child , who will receive very low compensation payment if they be not the beneficiary of the estate of bereaved family member . I think that could be address . no compensation have be pay to sibling for their loss and suffering if they be over 18 . compensation for lack of earning should consider future career progression that be prevent from occur , rather than simply exist career that be cut short . lastly on my list , which be not long but be substantial , be the fact that the need for a date of infection be cause a great deal of anxiety and confusion among the community . I believe that most of those issue could be properly address with the full involvement of community representative if they have full and open access to Government Ministers and be able to play their part in design any future scheme . the community should be involve to provide valuable information and advice on the most pressing issue that need to be address . one issue that I want to turn to in the bulk of my remark be the part of Sir Brian Langstaff ' s report that have probably receive the least attention thus far : the " why " of all this . why do this happen ? why be we mislead for such a long time ? we have have useful discussion about compensation and it be great to see that progress , but unless we explore and examine the reason why it happen , we will not learn all that much as we go forward . the duty of candour Bill , which I will come on to , be a useful , positive and helpful development , but unless we have a proper examination of what go so badly wrong , then I be not entirely sure we will learn the full lesson of what happen over the past couple of decade . the inquiry uncover shocking revelation about the Government ' s handling of the issue , include failure to provide full information to those affect by contaminate blood and the delay in acknowledge the extent of the problem . Sir Brian ' s inquiry find that both Ministers and civil servant adopt line to take , or strategy to avoid provide full and candid response to the crisis . that lack of openness contribute to the suffering of those impact , leave many victim and their family feel unheard and ignore for decade . those of we in the House in the noughtie who be raise these concern and issue on behalf of constituent who present in our surgery remember be dismiss by " nothing - to - see - here " letter from successive Health Ministers . I would not say we be fob off exactly , but we be certainly tell that there be nothing we should really be concern about . with all the serious issue that be raise , there be a real sense that none of it be be take seriously . Sir Brian Langstaff recommend that Ministers and senior civil servant should be legally require to provide candour and completeness in their response to public concern . that bring we to the duty of candour Bill promise by the Government . I think all of we involve in this campaign be delighted to see it feature in the King ' s Speech . we look forward to the Government introduce it . Most of the Bill be predicate on the response to Hillsborough . key lesson have be take from the infected blood scandal , and from other scandal such as the Horizon Post Office scandal . all of we who have be involve in these campaign will look forward to our opportunity to debate and design the Bill . a statutory duty of candour for all public servant , include civil servant and Ministers , would hold public official accountable for their action and require they to be transparent in their dealing with the public . such a law would compel civil servant and Ministers to act with integrity and fully disclose all relevant information , even when it might be uncomfortable or damaging to the Government ' s reputation . in the course of the Langstaff inquiry , Andy Burnham point out that during the tainted blood scandal and even early , in various material , the Government have frequently employ the phrase " no wrongful practice be employ " . in our debate on this issue , I often refer to Andy Burnham ' s evidence to the inquiry , because it be particularly compelling and very helpful . I probably receive more letter from he when he be Health Secretary than I do from any other Health Secretary . he talk about the letter that he use to send to member of Parliament , and express his concern about the inaccurate line provide by departmental official . he believe that those line perpetuate false narrative that fail to address the need of those whose life have be so devastatingly affect . he emphasise that the Government ' s response to the infected blood issue be drive primarily by a fear of financial exposure , and he believe that explain the comprehensive failure to address the concern of the victim over five decade . I have call for a further investigation or inquiry into why this be allow to happen in a major Department of State , give that it clearly lead to many of the difficulty that we be now address through various compensation scheme . much of the debate have touch on the Langstaff inquiry , but a separate look at what go wrong would be useful and cathartic for the Government , and would help they to shape their duty of candour Bill . I be not here to criticise they , although it sometimes sound as though I be ; I think that they have make a good start with all this , and we be all grateful for the £ 11 . 8 billion for the compensation scheme . I become involved with this issue when a couple of my constituent be catch up in it . I remember those early day when we do not know what be go on , and the letter from the Department of Health make the situation all the more confusing . over the decade , I have come to know member of the community . some have come down to the House of Commons , tell their story , and ask we to question Ministers . I pay tribute to Haemophilia Scotland and the Scottish Infected Blood Forum , which have make excellent representation on their behalf . the fact that we be discuss the issue now and have be able to see a clear way forward be largely due to the case that they put , and the fact that they be able to confront member of Parliament , the Government and Ministers , and we should give they due credit for what they have do to bring we here today . I want to record my thank to my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull North and Cottingham ( Dame Diana Johnson ) and the right hon . member for Salisbury ( John Glen ) for their tireless effort in seek justice for the victim of the infected blood scandal . the issue have have an impact on countless family , and I welcome the Government ' s ongoing work to address it with the seriousness that it deserve . today I want to share the story of Jean Anziani , the mother of one of my constituent . Jean be a nurse who come home with a cut on her hand after a patient struggle during a blood draw , cause the glass syringe to break . within just over a week , her health have decline so rapidly that she be rush to hospital , where her child , 17 - year - old Kenneth and 15 - year - old Christine , have to wear full protective gear just to visit she . by then , Jean be unable to recognise her child . only 13 day after receive that cut , she pass away at the age of just 39 . Christine share that story with I ; it be truly heartbreaking , and bring a tear to my eye . Jean have contract hepatitis B . the current support scheme focus only on those diagnose with hepatitis C or HIV , leave victim like Jean without the acknowledgment or the compensation that they deserve . the scheme be originally design to address the most commonly identify infection , but they have unintentionally exclude people infect with hepatitis B . as a result , Jean ' s daughter Christine be unable to receive any compensation or recognition for her loss . I would be extremely grateful if the Paymaster General could look into this matter for I and have further discussion . this truly have be one of our nation ' s bad ever scandal and injustice . thousand of patient contract HIV or hepatitis virus , or both , from contaminate blood , and this be not an accident or something that could not be avoid . nor be it down to pure negligence or people not be sufficiently attentive , although there be plenty of that . the report be clear about the " systematic , collective and individual failure " in identify and manage infection risk from blood product , and in the response of the health service and the Government . this issue affect the constituent of very many mp , but it have a particularly tragic depth of salience in my constituency . East Hampshire be home to Treloar ' s , a non - maintain special school and college that deliver outstanding education , nurture and care to child with some of the most profound disability . however , it be also the place where there be a terrible concentration of victim of this scandal . because 40 to 50 haemophiliac patient be there at any one time , it come to be see as a unique opportunity to study the disease , and a haemophilia centre be establish at the nearby hospital in 1972 . towards the end of the 1970 , the hospital still cater to the need of the wide community , but the haemophilia centre be relocate to the school ground . the inquiry report dedicate an entire chapter to the experience of pupil at Treloar ' s , and to how research objective often outweigh the good interest of the child . the inquiry hear that of the 122 pupil with haemophilia who attend the school between 1970 and 1987 , only around 30 remain alive . I have speak to a number of my infected or affected constituent over the year , include Adrian " Ade " Goodyear , a man who speak with remarkable dignity and determination . I will quote briefly from his most recent message to I : " the camaraderie and unity of we former pupil — well the handful of we that be leave … we have stick together to get to the truth due to the promise and pact we make towards our lose when they be live , as well as for their family . " we have be wait a very long time for the truth about a string of failure , omission and wrongdoing , start with the failure to achieve domestic self - sufficiency , and the decision to allow the importation of high - risk factor VIII concentrate , which in many case be procure via commercial arrangement that make infection more likely because the product come from high - risk group , include prisoner and drug user . we be complacent about the risk of hepatitis C and slow to respond to the risk of AIDS , and we permit research to be conduct on people without tell they — or , in the case of child , their parent — or inform they of the risk . in some case , we fail to tell people that they be infect , thus close down the possibility of their manage the progression of their disease or its transmission to other . in other case , people be tell starkly and insensitively about a diagnosis of HIV . there be defensiveness , a lack of candour , the active destruction of evidence and , of course , the absence of a meaningful apology or redress for so many year . in his statement on 21 May , my right hon . friend the Member for Salisbury ( John Glen ) rightly accept Sir Brian Langstaff ' s recommend five category of pay award and confirm additional interim compensation payment . there now need to be clarity about the basis on which claim can be assess , and the speed of those payment . campaigner have raise concern about the information source available , and I hope that the Minister can provide assurance that step will be take to ensure that there be easily accessible information to support people make compensation claim . I have be ask by former pupil at Treloar ' s to ask about the compensation amount of £ 10 , 000 and £ 15 , 000 , which have be mention by the hon . member for Eltham and Chislehurst ( Clive Efford ) . it would be helpful to have on the record , and in Hansard , an explanation of those sum of money . we have talk about memorialisation and the national memorial . the inquiry also recommend that there be a memorial dedicate specifically to the child at Treloar ' s , and that it be provide at public expense . I hope that the Minister can provide an update on that , either in his closing remark or in follow - up correspondence . I hope that one of the positive that can come from this generation will be the instituting and institutionalise of a duty of candour , in both letter and spirit . the report recommend a review of the exist statutory duty of candour , which require NHS organisation to be open and transparent about mistake and harm in care , and require leader in health service organisation to be personally accountable for respond to concern about safety . I think we all welcome the Bill appear in the King ' s Speech . for this generation , we need to make the duty of candour an establish principle across the whole of public service , which be something in which we be all involve , in our different way , as parliamentarian and member of the Government . nothing can ever make up for all these failing , but we can at least ensure that the compensation scheme work as well as it can , and that we as a state face up to our failing and truly learn the lesson , so that we can have confidence when we say , " never will this happen again . " we must always remember that at the heart of any public scandal , there be people . so many of my hon . friend this afternoon have tell tragic story , but also story of courage and humility . alongside other brave , courageous victim and their family , Becca , Jess and their sibling have campaign for justice for people infect and affect , in love memory of their father , Joe . like I , they welcome the decisiveness and commitment from this Government . with family like they in mind , I would like to ask the Minister to outline when he expect the second set of regulation to be lay before Parliament , how victim and their family can continue to be involve and inform of progress , and how claim can be make . I call the shadow Minister . I should probably start by pay tribute to my predecessor in this role , my right hon . friend the Member for Salisbury ( John Glen ) , who have also be Paymaster General . he have do so much on this issue , and I will touch on his comment a bit later . I also thank my hon . friend the Member for Kingswinford and South Staffordshire ( Mike Wood ) for open for the Opposition today . I will just mention to the Paymaster General and other Ministers in the Department that they obviously continue to have our broad support . we should never stop acknowledge the size and scale of this issue , which be almost unimaginable to member from across the House . my hon . friend the Member for Kingswinford and South Staffordshire say that we need to see justice , and that be what all the victim would like . I thank all member who have speak in this debate , and agree that what happen to the victim of the infected blood scandal be profoundly wrong and should never be repeat . the establishment of the inquiry in 2017 be the right first step towards do what we can to repair the damage , inasmuch as that can ever be possible . I be pleased that the work start by the previous Government to adopt the recommendation put forward by the inquiry be be continue by this Government . I must point out , though , how important it be for the Government to stay on schedule and start deliver payment through the Infected Blood Compensation Authority by the end of the year , as the Paymaster General outline . we will ensure that that happen . it be incumbent on we all in this House to do our part to restore trust in our state , because that have be damage , as well as thousand of life . ensure that those payment go out , as be committed to , be an important part of that . more broadly , I will reflect on the challenge ahead . before I do that , I will touch on a couple of remark make by member in this debate . the hon . member for Gedling ( Michael Payne ) make his maiden speech , and he speak kindly of his predecessor , who be a good friend of mine . he probably do not remember , but I campaign against he back in 2014 when my right hon . friend the Member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) be a young by - election candidate . today , the hon . Gentleman speak very strongly of his personal story . he clearly have the clarity and volume of a town crier so , even if we do not always agree with he , we will certainly hear he from this side of the Chamber . I welcome he to his place . the hon . member for Blyth and Ashington ( Ian Lavery ) , the hon . member for Eltham and Chislehurst ( Clive Efford ) , who speak for the APPG , and the hon . member for Perth and Kinross - shire ( Pete Wishart ) talk about different aspect of this subject , but they each mention the child who be use for research . I be sure that the Minister will want to reflect on that in his closing comment . all three hon . gentleman touch on the patient ' s voice . one recommendation be that the patient ' s voice should be improve with the routine collection of patient satisfaction datum , and with funding for patient advocacy group and charity . perhaps that be one way that patient and those affect could continue to be involve . my right hon . friend the Member for East Hampshire ( Damian Hinds ) mention the obvious impact of the case in his constituency , as well as the need for a memorial to those affect . I hope the Minister will touch on that , too . my right hon . friend the Member for Salisbury touch on broad issue not just for the Cabinet Office but for Ministers in all Departments . it be important that we encourage curiosity rather than group - think . we all have a duty of candour and , think of those who work for we , it can sometimes be difficult in a political environment . the Minister should also reflect on my right hon . friend ' s point about public inquiry . it be obviously important to get to the truth , but the Cabinet Office might want to reflect on the speed at which we do that , as well as on who can achieve it and how . we have hear about the need for strong medical screening protocol and safety measure to ensure that such a scandal can never happen again . it be also important to acknowledge the need to continue interrogate our risk assessment and mitigation measure more broadly across our health service and the Government . while I settle into my new role as shadow Paymaster General , I look forward to work with the Government to see what assistance I can offer , as well as fulfil the opposition ' s job of hold they to account . I will do so in the same spirit show by Labour Members on this issue . I will hold the Government to account to ensure that we do all we can , across all area of Government , to implement the strong possible risk assessment , mitigation and response procedure . it be important to have consider communication with affected group , too . the inquiry acknowledge that there be a failure within the NHS to properly implement informed consent and to ensure that patient , at all stage of the healthcare system , understand how their personal care relate to the large risk . while I appreciate the good work be do to make progress on this issue , we must not take our eye off the ball on any aspect of the Government ' s work . I be sure that there be still work to be do in the Department of Health and Social Care , in the Cabinet Office and across Government to ensure that inform consent and patient communication be work properly at all time , and to ensure that Government framework in our health and care system be be properly and continually evaluate so that the need for holistic informed consent do not fall victim to a complex and often disjoint system . that require not only work on the health and care front , but on broad governance framework and improve cross - Government collaboration . that speak to the core issue raise today , with which I agree : the Government must continue to ensure that global standard for blood safety be meet and regularly update , as hon . member have mention . I look forward to work in opposition , alongside hon . friend in other shadow role , and undertake cross - party work to ensure that the regulation around the sourcing of blood product and virus detection be strengthen . as with the other measure mention , I want to ensure that that be do robustly and ahead of time , and not as a reactive measure , as have sadly be the case in the past . one of the most difficult element of such an inquiry process be to acknowledge that , too often , we make the change that be need to prevent a problem only when the consequence of that problem have reach intolerable level . we need to resist box the issue raise today into direct consequence for our health and care practice , when a much more fundamental interrogation of our governance and practice framework be need , as my right hon . friend the Member for Salisbury note . as numerous speaker have say , the inquiry shed clear light on the continuous failure on the part of institution to properly address the issue as it come up . in far too many case , infected patient be distrust , disbelieve and , at point , treat with outright disrespect . although it be important to acknowledge the significant change that have happen across our health system to tackle that , we should never become complacent . we must remain vigilant about the need for medical staff in the NHS to approach patient with trust , dignity and empathy . we must ensure that our communication framework and staff training properly reflect those issue . the inquiry make it clear that the victim of the scandal be victim not only of institution , but of widespread stigmatisation and prejudice . whatever our party affiliation , we can all agree that we should continue to progress the good work that have happen since that time and to support the fantastic organisation that continue to take on that important activism . I put on record my thank to the brave victim of this scandal and their family . they have step forward bravely and steadfastly to fight for their dignity , against the wrong commit upon they and for proper recognition . I thank the former right hon . member for Maidenhead for introduce the inquiry back in 2017 . I also thank the inquiry leader for the essential work they conduct , without which we would have make much less progress at an even slow pace . no amount of compensation will ever make up for the wrong commit and the tragedy suffer . of course , many who have be affect be no long around to see the small benefit of compensation . I offer a small amount of hope to those affect : I be confident that hon . member in this House , from all party , have hear they and trust they . we know the suffering that have be bring upon they . they have fight valiantly and relentlessly , and I hope that they can take some comfort from know that their fight lead to the recognition of the scale of the scandal and to the action that government of both colour have take to ensure such a scandal never happen again . I hope history will show that further such suffering be avoid because the victim of this scandal expose the wrong of the past . in closing , I once again express my deep regret for the continuous failure of government over the year on this issue . I express my support for the cause of those who continue to fight . I assure the infected and affect who be still fight , and member of this House , that I and my colleague on the Conservative Benches will do all we can to continue our cross - party work , which we know still have to be do . in the relatively non - political spirit of this debate , I ask the Minister , as he continue to work with Opposition Members to address the outstanding issue for the victim and their family , to be open about make adaptation and change to address those issue , and to ensure that in the process of undertake compensation , we do not end up alienate segment of those involve and ignore the suffering of those who have be affect . I thank hon . member who have speak today , the victim and their family , and all those who have play their part by do what they can to ensure that something like this never happen again . I stand here as the Minister for Public Health and Prevention , humble and with a large degree of humility . the Department of Health and Social Care be rightly hate and despise by the infected blood community . we let they down . for that , I be personally sorry and my Department collectively be sorry . I say that in a heartfelt way because for the past decade and a half , both as shadow Public Health Minister and as a Back Bencher , I have raise the issue of the infected blood scandal on behalf of the campaign and of my constituent who be infect and affect . now that I stand here as a Minister in the Department responsible , I feel it be incumbent on I to give that heartfelt apology . it be too late come for so many , but I hope that those who be still here and their family and love one will accept it in the spirit in which I give it : I be sorry . we let you down and we must make sure it never ever happen again . I welcome the two new Opposition spokespeople , the right hon . member for Basildon and Billericay ( Mr Holden ) and the hon . member for Kingswinford and South Staffordshire ( Mike Wood ) . I want to start in the way the right hon . member for Basildon and Billericay finish , by assure he that the Government will work collectively and constructively with member from across the House , from whichever party they come and whichever part of the United Kingdom they represent . this be an issue that have stain the body politic of our country for too long , and it be incumbent on we to work together across party and across artificial division to make sure that we get the good deal for our constituent and their family . I also thank all right hon . and hon . member who have contribute to the debate . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Blyth and Ashington ( Ian Lavery ) and my hon . friend the Member for Gedling ( Michael Payne ) , who make an incredibly powerful maiden speech , set out how he will be a champion for the people of gedle in the year to come . the people of Arnold , John and Joan , and his husband Kyle be all rightly proud of he today , from wherever they be view the speech . I also thank my hon . friend the Member for Eltham and Chislehurst ( Clive Efford ) , who have play such a pivotal role in this campaign over a large number of year , as well as my hon . friend the Members for Swindon North ( Will Stone ) and for Portsmouth North ( Amanda Martin ) . on the Opposition Benches , I thank the right hon . member for Salisbury ( John Glen ) , who lead on this matter in his former ministerial position . we thank he for his work . I know that sometimes I be frustrate with he , from just behind where he be sit , but I appreciate the work he put in behind the scene as well as at the Dispatch Box . the hon . member for Perth and Kinross - shire ( Pete Wishart ) have similarly be a tireless campaigner , as have the right hon . member for East Hampshire ( Damian Hinds ) . the infected blood scandal be one of the most appalling in our nation ' s history . it be an institutional failure of the high order , span decade . from the national health service to the civil service to Ministers across successive government , at every level , those the public trust to protect they fall short in way that be both tragic and catastrophic . they let down victim , their family and our country . in the course of this debate , we have hear the name : Sean , Gary , Thomas , Jean , Ade and Joe . they remind we of the real people — those who be deceased , those who be infect , and those who be affect . they be real people , not statistic , and it be important that we never forget that . victim be deny the truth ; many pass away before they see justice . the state work to protect itself , and those people pay the price . I must echo the tribute that have be make to Sir Brian Langstaff and his team by member from across the House . their steadfast pursuit of the truth finally bring this decade - long scandal to light . Sir Brian and his team have set we on a path towards begin to right the terrible wrong that be commit . they uncover a litany of collective and personal failure , as many hon . member have highlight by share story from their community and constituency . each one be significant in its own right and together they add up to a complete disaster . Sir Brian find that this national scandal could have be prevent . it be already know that these treatment be contaminate , yet the warning be disregarded time and again . People in position of power and responsibility have multiple opportunity to halt the transmission of these infection , but , on each occasion , they choose not to act . many in this House have campaign for justice for a long time , give voice to those who have be repeatedly silence . in particular , I wish to pay tribute to my right hon . friend the Minister for Policing , Fire and Crime Prevention and the Secretary of State for Wales . I thank my hon . friend the Members for Gower ( Tonia Antoniazzi ) , for Hornsey and Friern Barnet ( Catherine West ) , and for Newport East ( Jessica Morden ) , and the hon . member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) . I also thank the former Member for worthe West , Peter Bottomley , and the now Mayor of Manchester , Andy Burnham . in this debate today , we have again hear from my hon . friend the Members for Eltham and Chislehurst and for Blyth and Ashington , the hon . member for Perth and Kinross - shire , and the former Paymaster General , the right hon . member for Salisbury . as a Government , we will do our utmost not to repeat the mistake of the past . we be elect on a manifesto that commit to act on the inquiry ' s finding and to put right historical injustice . the public rightly expect nothing less of this Government than fulfil our moral obligation to compensate victim , and we aim to do so without delay . in October 2022 , the previous Government spend £ 440 million on initial interim payment of £ 100 , 000 to the living infect . follow the publication of the inquiry ' s final report in May , a furth £ 728 million be pay as a second interim payment of £ 210 , 000 to all UK - register living infect victim . the Government have also commit , in legislation , to pay £ 100 , 000 to the estate of the deceased infect to recognise those who have not yet receive a payment and to ensure that some of those affected — such as parent , child and sibling — be support . that scheme open on 24 October . we recognise that money can never make up for the heartbreak that victim and their family have experience , and much of the inquiry ' s criticism apply to the way that my Department — the Department of Health and Social Care — and its predecessor operate . my constituent Brendan lose his left leg while serve with the british Army in 1979 . decade later , he discover that he have be infect with hepatitis C during the operation that save his life . I know have talk to Brendan that , while he be pleased that the Government have commit to provide compensation , he be keen for we all to understand that , because of his community ' s live experience , there be an inherent distrust of the state . his instinct on be tell that the state will spit out a number be understandably not to trust the process . will the Minister reassure Brendan that all compensation offer will include a detailed breakdown of the datum and rate use to make the calculation ? I can give my hon . friend and Brendan the commitment that we will do just that , to reassure those who rightly have lose all trust in public authority , and particularly in my Department , because of the dreadful action that lead to their infection . she have my assurance that we will do what we can to reassure Brendan and many other like he who rightly have no trust leave in we that we will rebuild that trust . I be sorry not to have be here for the opening speech . do the Minister recognise the fundamental similarity between the way in which the victim of this scandal and those of the Post Office scandal , and no doubt other terrible scandal , be treat by the state ? do the Government have any plan , possibly on a cross - departmental basis , to try to educate the bureaucracy that when terribly difficult and potentially expensive thing like this crop up , they should not follow this well - wear path of denial and cover - up ? the right hon . Gentleman raise an important point . indeed , it be acknowledge by my right hon . friend the Paymaster General and Minister for the Cabinet Office in his opening speech that this be just one of a number of scandal that follow a similar pattern — when the scandal have be uncover , rather than try to protect the victim , the state have try to protect itself . it be absolutely crucial that the state learn not just from each individual scandal , but collectively ; that it be the same mindset that have lead we to all these different scandal with similar outcome for victim . that level of learning have to be genuinely across Government , and I know my right hon . friend will lead on that in the Cabinet Office . the Government will set out our formal response before the end of the year , but give that there be absolutely no time to waste , I want to take this opportunity to update the House on the work already under way to address some of the inquiry ' s recommendation . to prevent future harm , the Department continue to explore option to enhance candour and openness across the national health service . to empower patient voice , the NHS be review clinical audits relate to haemophilia service to identify any gap in patient involvement , alongside work on a new clinical service specification , which will set standard for service across England . to protect haemophiliac , the NHS have convene an expert group to hear advice from the specialised blood disorder clinical reference group . a dedicated taskforce have be set up to consider its recommendation . the General Medical Council be work with NHS England and other to look at way to ensure that lesson learn be reflect in training for doctor , nurse and other healthcare professional . let I be clear to the House : the Government do not see this scandal in isolation . sadly , repeat patient safety failing have erode public confidence in our health and social care system , so we be take step to fix the culture of the national health service . my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care have be clear that we will not tolerate NHS manager who silence whistleblower . openness and honesty be vital to ensure patient safety . nhs staff must have the confidence to speak out and come forward if they have concern . there will be no more turn a blind eye to failure . our wide reform to NHS performance will provide great transparency for the public who pay for it . measure will ensure that top talent be attract to the most challenge area , and persistently fail manager will be sack . that be about ensure that the right people be in post to lead our NHS with the resource they need to do their job . if we get that right , we will be able to look back on this moment as a turning point for patient safety and for leadership . I apologise , Madam Deputy Speaker ; I be in Committee at the start of the debate , but I do have my name down to speak . some of my constituent be impact by the scandal , and it have take they this long to summon the courage to come forward . obviously , I represent they and Northern Ireland . we have talk about the Hillsborough law and the need for a duty of candour . do the Minister agree that it be important that that be roll out not just in England and Wales , but right across the UK , so that , as he say , those family be never again impact in that way ? I hope that I can reassure the hon . Lady that although health be devolve across the four nation , and I can speak only on behalf of the NHS in England on a number of the recommendation , both the Department of Health and Social Care and the Cabinet Office be work closely and collaboratively with Ministers in the devolved administration . indeed , I and my right hon . friend the Paymaster General recently have a meeting with Ministers from Scotland , Northern Ireland and Wales to talk about how to take forward the recommendation , on a four - nation basis where possible , and with mutual support across the four nation where there be individual recommendation pertinent to the devolved part of the United Kingdom . I hope that that reassure she that we be work together . although I can not comment on the change that will be need for health service in Northern Ireland , which be a matter for the Minister of Health in Northern Ireland , Mike Nesbitt , I be quite certain that those service will carefully and closely consider our work here in England , and the work in other part of the United Kingdom . we have wait too long for these action . People have wait too long for compensation . indeed , right hon . and hon . member have wait too long for this debate . More than 3 , 000 people die before they see justice ; family and our country be let down . there be a level of suffering that be so difficult to comprehend , because question be not ask at the time , institution do not face up to the failing , and fact be cover up . now we know the truth . as we reflect , we be make a concerted effort to improve , because that loss need not be in vain . I will respond to some of the question raise throughout the debate , and will refer to other question directly in the relevant part of my contribution . should I miss anything because of time constraint , I will write to member . in opening for the official Opposition , the hon . member for Kingswinford and South Staffordshire talk about destigmatisation of HIV and hepatitis C . I hope that he understand that the Labour party make a clear manifesto commitment to end HIV transmission in England by 2030 . official at the Department of Health and Social Care , the UK Health Security Agency , NHS England and a broad range of system partner be now work together to develop a new HIV action plan , which we aim to publish by summer next year , and destigmatisation will be a key part of that plan . my hon . friend the Member for Blyth and Ashington ask about psychological support for family and friend . I reassure he that NHS England have establish the infected blood psychological support service in England , which support its first patient in late August . that include support not just the infected , but the family and friend affect . I want to turn to departmental failing . the report outline a comprehensive condemnation of the organisation of blood service , licensing decision , blood safety and patient safety , with harm compound by the reaction and handling of Government . I again recognise humbly the criticism of the Department that I stand at this Dispatch Box to represent and its predecessor , and I be committed to ensure that a tragedy such as the infected blood scandal can never happen again . this government will prioritise patient safety to ensure that the nhs treat people with the high - quality , safe care they deserve . repeat inquiry and investigation have highlight significant issue with patient safety , which have cause a deterioration in public confidence , as we hear from my hon . friend the Member for Aldershot ( Alex Baker ) in an early intervention . we must absolutely fix that . the Health Secretary have be clear that we will not tolerate NHS manager who silence whistleblower . a culture of openness and honesty be vital to ensure patient safety . we want NHS staff to have the confidence to speak out , and we will give they that . the hon . member for Eastleigh ( Liz Jarvis ) raise the question of the safety of blood product . while no medical treatment can be completely risk - free , current safety standard for blood donation and transfusion be rigorous , and England ' s blood supply be one of the safe in the world . process be in place throughout the blood donation journey to ensure the safety of blood and blood product , include the donation safety check form , test for specific infection , donor deferral , regulation and inform consent . accord to Serious Hazards of Transfusion , the risk of serious harm because of blood transfusion in the United Kingdom be low , at one in 11 , 000 blood component issue . turn to timeline , so far more than £ 1 billion have be pay in interim compensation payment to victim of the infected blood scandal . as we hear early , application open on 24 October for interim payment of £ 100 , 000 to the estate of deceased people whose death have not be recognise . Parliament have now approve regulation that give the Infected Blood Compensation Authority the power necessary to pay compensation through the core route to the infected , both live and deceased . the Infected Blood Compensation Authority have begin to process its first claimant under the infected blood compensation scheme . in my intervention on the hon . member for Perth and Kinross - shire ( Pete Wishart ) , I ask about the sibling who qualify . one sibling seem to be worth more than another sibling , and that seem absolutely wrong . I understand that there have be no reply to that in the Minister ' s sum up . maybe he be come on to it — if he be , I apologise — but I would love to have a response , because my constituent have ask I to ask that question and ensure that we have a response . I can assure the hon . Gentleman that the Minister for the Cabinet Office be carefully consider this matter . if the hon . Gentleman would like , the Minister for the Cabinet Office will write to he , but he be consider it . we expect the Infected Blood Compensation Authority to begin make payment to people who be infect under the infected blood compensation scheme by the end of this year . payment to the affected be expect to begin in 2025 , follow a second set of regulation . turn to a question raise by the hon . member for Perth and Kinross - shire about the independence of ibca , it be rightly operationally independent . Parliament would clearly expect the Government to have oversight of a scheme of this size and for there to be proper management , give the amount of public money go into the scheme . it be true that there be only two non - departmental public body that be independent of the government : one be IBCA and the other be the National Audit Office . it be absolutely right for ibca to have that independence . [ Official Report , 21 November 2024 ; Vol . 757 , c . 5wc . ] ( Correction ) on that point , the National Audit Office be directly accountable to Parliament through the Public Accounts Commission . be the intention to create a similar sort of arrangement , as envisage by Sir Brian Langstaff , in which there be direct accountability to Parliament , rather than to the Department ? I should clarify for my hon . friend that IBCA be operationally independent — that be important — but it be absolutely right that member of this House be able to scrutinise its operation , its working and , indeed , its use of public money . we be talk about a great deal of public money , and IBCA have to be democratically accountable to this House , albeit operationally independent of Government Ministers in its day - to - day business . this be a really important point — both myself and the hon . member for Eltham and Chislehurst ( Clive Efford ) have now raise it with the Minister . he have rightly identify the experience of so many people catch up in this crisis , and the fact that they do not trust the Government or Government institution . would it not be more of a comfort to they to know that ibca be like the National Audit Office : accountable to Parliament , rather than to Government ? I agree with the hon . Gentleman , which be why IBCA be operationally independent — that be the crucial thing here . it do not have the fingerprint of Ministers all over it , because that be where the distrust come from . it operate independently , but as a public body it be accountable to this House for how it spend that money and how it operate as an organisation . while ibca be operationally independent to ensure a separation between Executive Ministers and the functioning of that body , it be accountable to this House . I think that be absolutely the right balance . I endorse what the Minister have say about the way in which ibca have be set up . it seem to I an entirely sensible arrangement that respect the need to have some distance from Government , but clearly there can not be a bespoke arrangement for every single entity that be set up . this be the point I be try to make , respectfully , about Sir Brian Langstaff early : he do a brilliant job , but some aspect of this issue will need a slightly different judgment make by Ministers . I welcome the decision that the Minister and his colleague have make . I thank the right hon . gentleman for that intervention . I hope that member across the House can see why we have set IBCA up in the way we have . it be for precisely that reason : we have to have that operational separation from Ministers and the Executive , but there also have to be political oversight from all quarter of this Chamber , because this be a public body spend public money — and a great deal of public money at that . as I have say , we be aim for the second set of regulation to be in place by 31 March 2025 . that will support our intention that payment to the affected begin next year . there be important detail , especially in relation to Sir Robert Francis ' s recommendation , the majority of which the Government have accept , that must be work through ahead of the second set of regulation . this include detail such as the eligibility criterion for people who be affect , and how the Government should define the parameter of the definition of unethical testing . turn to payment , the selection of those who have be contact for first payment be a decision for the Infected Blood Compensation Authority . the first group of people who be receive invite to claim be : first , those who be know to be already eligible for compensation ; secondly , those register with support scheme , which mean we be likely to have much of the necessary information for these people already ; thirdly , those from area across the UK ; and fourthly , those who represent a range of infection type and of severity within those infection . let I turn to some of the question raise about this area . the hon . member for Eastleigh mention people die before compensation be award . I hope I can reassure she that when a person with an eligible infection have , tragically , die before receive compensation , we will ensure that their personal representative can claim compensation on behalf of the deceased ' s estate . I hope that clarify the point for she . my hon . friend the Member for Swindon North talk about the exclusion of victim with hepatitis B from the compensation scheme . People with chronic hepatitis B and those who die in the acute period be eligible for compensation , as be their loved one as affect . I suggest that my hon . friend write to the Minister for the Cabinet Office with his constituent ' s detail , so that we can look more closely at his case . my hon . friend the Member for Eltham and Chislehurst ask whether there will be payment by the end of the year . the answer be yes , and as I have say , there will be payment to the affect from next year , when we have the new regulation in place . the right hon . member for East Hampshire ask about the step take to provide accessible information on compensation . I want to spell out to he that Sir Robert recommend that there should be a high award of £ 15 , 000 for child subject to unethical research at the school in his constituency . that be why there be a difference , which I hope clarifie that point for he . as I have say , at the start of November the Infected Blood Compensation Authority invite the first cohort of people to make compensation claim . Candour in the civil service and in Government be raise by my hon . friend the Member for Eltham and Chislehurst and the hon . member for Perth and Kinross - shire in their contribution . the King ' s Speech set out the commitment to bring forward legislation to introduce a duty of candour for public authority and public servant . this legislation will be the catalyst for a change culture in the public sector . the Prime Minister confirm at the Labour party conference that legislation on the duty of candour would be deliver by this Government . he confirm that the duty will apply to public authority and public servant , and it will include criminal sanction . the Bill will be introduce to Parliament before the next anniversary of the Hillsborough disaster in April 2025 . in closing , today I hope the House have hear how we be start to deliver compensation and how we be start to respond to the inquiry recommendation . admittedly , they be still small step , but they be step in the right direction . this work be far from over . we owe it to the victim and their family to see it through , and we will of course regularly update the House as this progress . I reiterate on behalf of the Government and the Department of Health and Social Care , and as a mere ordinary Member of Parliament for Gorton and Denton , represent some of the infected and affect , that we be truly sorry . we let you down . we will learn from these lesson , and we must never ever let anything like this happen again . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider the Infected Blood Inquiry . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I apologise for raise a point of order out of sequence , and I will explain why I be do so . it relate to the case of Mr Alaa Abd el - Fattah and a point of order that I raise over a week ago . some member may recall that he be a british citizen who be imprison for his human right campaign in Egypt . he have serve his sentence of five year and should have be release in September , but be not . his mother , a well - know academic at Cairo University , have be on hunger strike for 50 day . anyone who have have any experience of hunger strike know that this be a critical period . a number of we write to the Foreign Secretary over 10 day ago about this case , urge he to make further representation to the Egyptian Administration to secure Mr el - Fattah ' s release . as of close of play today , we have not receive a response . through you , Madam Deputy Speaker , could I urge the Foreign Secretary to respond and , more importantly , take action ? I be now fearful for the life of Laila , Mr el - Fattah ' s mother , because as I say , the hunger strike have enter its 50th day . the very serious matter raise by the right hon . member be not one for the Chair , but he have place his concern on the record in the hearing of the Foreign Office . Ryan Cornelius : detention in UAE Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Keir Mather . ) I be grateful for the opportunity to hold this debate on a matter of great importance , namely the arbitrary detention of a british citizen by a close ally and friend of the United Kingdom . this case be deliberately be raise as we approach the national day of the United Arab Emirates , 2 December , in the earnest hope that the authority in Dubai will consider grant clemency and pardon Ryan Cornelius as a gesture of friendship towards our country , build on our important alliance . as member will know , this be not the first time that Ryan ' s case have be raise . his name have feature in the press , and the matter have be scrutinise by the United Nations and raise by our Foreign Affairs Committee , and now by the new all - party parliamentary group on arbitrary detention and hostage affair , of which I be proud to be vice - chair . before we start properly , I pay tribute to Ryan ' s wife Heather , and her family , Chris , Diane , Gilly and Sam , who be in the Gallery . before get to the detail of the case , I would like to reflect briefly on the important relationship between the UAE , particularly Dubai , and the United Kingdom . the relationship be build on a long history of friendship . since its foundation in 1971 , the United Arab Emirates , particularly Dubai , and the UK have be trust friend . the country , and the emirate specifically , have be a source of stability , economic growth , and innovation in the region , and successive government in the UK have be a value partner in its pursuit . trade between our two country cover a variety of area , include energy , financial and professional service , education , healthcare , infrastructure , defence and aerospace . in an era of global insecurity , the UK and UAE have a long - stand strategic defence partnership to preserve peace and stability in the arabian gulf . the UAE be the UK ' s third - large trading partner outside Europe , behind China and the United States . More than 5 , 000 british business operate in the Emirates , and around 240 , 000 british national live and work in the UAE . total import and export between the UK and the UAE reach £ 24 . 2 billion in 2023 . it be a valuable trading relationship . accord to VisitBritain , in 2023 the UK welcome 477 , 000 visitor from the Emirates . go the other way , there be approximately 1 . 4 million visitor from the UK to the Emirates every year . those statistic demonstrate the closeness of our nation on matter of tourism , business and defence . however , I be increasingly worried that the continue arbitrary detention of Ryan Cornelius will start send the wrong message to tourist , expat and business , potentially threaten our value and historic relationship . before his detention in Dubai , Ryan have work in the middle east since at least the 1980 , specialise in property and construction . at the turn of the millennium , with cheap credit , a booming market and plentiful opportunity , we all know that the Gulf begin to attract many entrepreneur , Ryan among they . he become an investing partner in three very large project in Dubai , Bahrain and Pakistan . in the wake of the global financial crisis , Ryan ' s lender , a german venture capital group , find itself unable to fund Ryan ' s project . due to the dearth of alternative funding , he find himself draw into restructuring negotiation between that group and their lender , the Dubai Islamic Bank . these negotiation result in a three - year repayment schedule , secure against Ryan ' s business and personal asset . repayment be make on schedule . the collateral provide by Ryan and his partner be consider more than enough to cover the borrowing from the DIB . indeed , the Pakistan project that I mention — the Indus refinery — receive two separate valuation in excess of $ 1 billion . in 2008 , when Ryan be return from a trip to Karachi to find a potential buyer for the refinery so that he could clear his outstanding debt — which , as I say , he be service on time — he be arrest while transit through Dubai . he be detain and place in solitary confinement for six week , and the Dubai Islamic Bank commence seizure of his personal asset and business , eventually include his London home . in 2010 , Ryan be put on trial for fraud . the case be initially dismiss for lack of evidence . follow a retrial , Ryan be charge with theft from a public body and sentence to 10 year in prison . he be order to repay the outstanding balance and hand a $ 500 million fine . in May 2018 , he be issue with a 20 - year extension to his imprisonment , mean that he will not be eligible for release until May 2038 , when he will be 84 year old . first , I commend the hon . gentleman on secure this debate . I speak to he before it . I have always be a speaker for human right , as he and the House know . whenever I hear story like the one he have outline so well , it tell I that there be injustice . the friendship between the UK and UAE do not matter ; this be about justice and do right when somebody be discriminate against . do he not agree that the inaction of the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office — I say that respectfully — in respect of one of our citizen be incredibly concern ? the fact that Mr Cornelius have serve his sentence , only to have the goalpost move , do not speak of international justice , but injustice . I believe that our Foreign Office have an absolute duty to advocate for this british citizen . the hon . Member make an important point . I will return to the fcdo in a moment and perhaps address some of what he mention . as I say , Ryan be issue with a 20 - year extension to his sentence in 2018 . the law sanction such extension be not bring in until after Ryan ' s arrest . in April 2022 , the United Nations Working Group on Arbitrary Detention complete a detailed investigation that find that the UAE ' s treatment of he contravene eight article of the universal declaration of human right , to which the UAE be a signatory . the group rule that Ryan have be hold in condition amount to " torture " , that he have not receive a fair trial , and that his detention be " arbitrary " . it call for his immediate release . as thing stand , he have not be release . he remain an arbitrarily detain british national in the United Arab Emirates — a country that be an ally . I congratulate my hon . friend on secure the debate , and pay tribute to he for his work , not just on behalf of Ryan Cornelius but on political prisoner and the rule of law more generally . do he agree that it seem we live in a world where increasingly autocratic country will take citizen of other nation into arbitrary detention , and that when it come to the toolkit that be normally available to country such as ours , option such as have consular access that make a difference , and make representation , have be erode ? do he feel that we need a new toolkit for this different landscape ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that important point . he have also be vocal in his support for british citizen who have be arbitrarily detain , and on wide human right issue . I commend he for his work on that agenda . the fcdo point about the toolkit be really important . the difficult question that we have to ask ourselves be : how have we reach the situation where one of our citizen be languish in the jail of a friendly country — a close ally — with all the potential damage to UK - UAE relation that that do ? I have huge admiration for the work of the fcdo and its staff , and I know from colleague and friend around the globe how much its work be appreciate and respect on the world stage . we have many fine diplomat and public servant , but I have to say in all candour that it have be fail for many year in its handling of state hostage taking and arbitrary detention of british national abroad , Ryan Cornelius include . in the last Parliament , the Foreign Affairs Committee publish a significant report with a number of recommendation , not all of which be take up . it criticise the fcdo for its " unnecessarily defensive culture " in this area , which " impede scrutiny " , harm victim and their family and undermine public trust . the report find that previous government of all stripe have fail to learn the lesson from respond to such situation , and have be slow or unwilling to call out guilty country . our atlantic ally , the United States and Canada , have learn those lesson , and create official role to co - ordinate the response to state hostage taking and arbitrary detention in order to get their people home , which be , of course , a priority for all of we . indeed , the creation of such a role be one of the Committee ' s recommendation to the Foreign Office and the Foreign Secretary . this time last year , when the Foreign Secretary be the shadow Foreign Secretary , he commit a Labour Government to create a special envoy for arbitrary detention and state hostage taking . I warmly welcome the Minister of State to her role — I think I can still call she a new Minister a few month into the new Government — and I know that she take these matter seriously . I ask she to reflect back to her colleague and the Secretary of State that we should stick to that commitment . let we follow in the footstep of Canada and the United States , and let we not be advise out of that promise by official . as I conclude , I return to the heart of the debate with one simple request to his Highness Sheikh Mohammed . as a gesture of friendship , for the continue prosperity of our country and for our mutual security , I hope that he will grant clemency to Ryan Cornelius . the UAE ' s national day , Eid al Etihad , be only around the corner on 2 December . I hope that on that day of great celebration , the Dubai Government will find the good will to extend a pardon to Ryan and allow he to return home to the United Kingdom and his family . I be grateful to my hon . friend the Member for Macclesfield ( Tim Roca ) for secure a debate on this difficult case . he refer to the fact that I be a new Minister — that be correct — but he be also a new Member , who clearly be do his utmost to represent his constituent as powerfully as he can . he speak eloquently about the case of Mr Cornelius , which I will come to in a moment . he also talk about the close relationship between the UK and the Emirates in business , tourism and defence . I agree that it be an important relationship . as he do , I recognise the many other parliamentarian who have be active on these issue , work on behalf of Mr Cornelius and his family both in this Chamber and in the other place . the Minister for the Middle East — the Under - Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs , my hon . friend the Member for Lincoln ( Hamish Falconer ) — be unable to take part in this debate because he be travel on ministerial duty , so it be my pleasure to respond on behalf of the Government . I want to begin by recognise the awful toll that the past 16 year will have take on Mr Cornelius , his wife and child , and the rest of his family and friend . I be humble to hear from my hon . friend that we be join by some of they here this evening . I appreciate their presence . support british national overseas be at the heart of the work of the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office . our consular staff endeavour to give appropriate and tailor support to they and their family 24 hour a day , 365 day a year . the new Government be review how to strengthen our support for british national overseas , which include the appointment of an envoy . we will ensure that we do as much as we can to learn lesson from what have work and what may not have work in the past . it be important that we draw on that evidence move forward . on this particular case , let I assure the House that since his detention in 2008 , FCDO consular staff in the UAE have visit Mr Cornelius on a regular basis , most recently at the end of October . Consular staff here in the UK be in regular contact with his family . let I also reassure the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , who be so active on these issue , for which we be very grateful , that there have be ministerial activity as well as consular activity , which I will go on to explain . on 23 October , my hon . friend the Minister for the Middle East meet member of Mr Cornelius ' s family . it be clear to he that Mr Cornelius ' s detention have have a devastating impact on they . the family have demonstrate great strength and resilience over many year , under very difficult circumstance . the Minister want to listen to the family during his meeting , and he make it clear that Mr Cornelius ' s case remain a priority for the Government , and the fcdo will continue to provide consular support to he and his family . he also reassure they that the case will continue to be raise with the UAE authority , senior official and Ministers . shortly after that meeting with the family , on 30 October the Minister write to his Highness Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum , the ruler of Dubai , to reaffirm the UK Government ' s interest in Mr Cornelius ' s case and welfare . the House will understand that I will not share personal information relate to Mr Cornelius ' s case in this place . however , I will set out the factor that have guide the response . when a british national be detain in another country , our priority be to ensure that they have access to legal representation and that their welfare need be meet by the local authority . the Vienna convention on consular relation require that , in provide consular assistance , we do not interfere in the judicial affair of another state . we therefore can not get people out of prison or interfere in criminal or civil court proceeding . consular staff be not train lawyer and can not offer legal advice , but they provide information on the local jurisdiction and list of English - speak lawyer to support british national . if there be allegation of torture or mistreatment from any detain british national , we will always offer to raise they with local authority , with the detainee ' s consent , and ask for they to be investigate . where there be concern that legal procedure may not be be follow correctly or do not meet internationally recognise standard , we will decide our approach on a case - by - case basis . in do so , we will be guide by the appropriate expert , include human right adviser . I want to provide that assurance , give the broad issue mention by my hon . friend the Member for Macclesfield . the good interest and welfare of the detainee be at the forefront of everything we do , and that have inform the approach to support Mr Cornelius and his family . I will now turn to some of the legal aspect of the case . in 2022 , the UN Working Group on Arbitrary Detention publish its opinion that Mr Cornelius be arbitrarily detain , and make several recommendation . it be for the UAE , as the state detain Mr Cornelius , to respond to those recommendation and take any necessary action . we take the working group ' s finding extremely seriously . where we have specific concern about Mr Cornelius ' s case , with his consent , we raise they with the UAE authority . Mr Cornelius have local lawyer represent he in his challenge to his ongoing detention . FCDO consular staff have regularly attend hearing as observer . we be determined to continue to demonstrate the UK ' s close interest in this case . let I reassure the House that this case remain a priority for the fcdo . our official and Ministers will continue to support Mr Cornelius and his family as good we can . I again thank my hon . friend the Member for Macclesfield for initiate the debate , and other who have intervene during it . if I may , Madam Deputy Speaker , another consular case be mention a couple of moment before the beginning of this debate — that of Mr Alaa Abd el - Fattah . I would like to reassure my right hon . friend the Member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) that the case have be raise at the high level , include on 14 November directly with the Foreign Minister of Egypt by our Foreign Secretary . I will of course write to my right hon . friend , but I want to provide that update give that the case be mention a couple of moment ago . question put and agree to . House adjourn .