Speaker ' s Statement this morning , two people be charge with offence under the Official Secrets Act 1911 . one of those individual be a parliamentary passholder at the time of the allege offence . this matter be now sub judice and , under the term of the House ' s resolution on matter of sub judice , Members should not refer to it in the Chamber . I know that hon . and right hon . member will understand how important it be that we do not say anything in this place that might prejudice a criminal trial relate to a matter of national security . oral Answers to Questions Levelling up , Housing and Communities the Secretary of State be ask — private Rented Sector what step he be take to reform the private rent sector . the Renters ( Reform ) Bill will have its Report stage on Wednesday 24 April . the Bill abolishe section 21 eviction , move the sector to a system of periodic tenancy and introduce a private rent sector property portal and ombudsman , improve the system for responsible tenant and good - faith landlord . minister first promise to end no - fault eviction five year ago . since then , 85 , 000 household have be threaten with no - fault eviction , include a constant stream of resident in Putney . do the Minister not agree that that be ample time to implement the necessary improvement and that the delay have cause immense suffering to people in the private rent sector ? I agree with the hon . Lady that we need to abolish section 21 eviction as soon as possible . when it come to the Bill , we publish the White Paper in 2022 , we publish the Bill in 2023 and we be bring forward the Report stage on Wednesday . I call the SNP spokesperson . in 2019 , the UK Government announce plan to outlaw no - fault eviction notice . however , just last week , the housing charity Shelter reveal that almost 1 million renter in England have be serve no - fault eviction notice since that announcement . while the Government seem to be unable to get the rental reform agenda past their conservative Back Benchers , the Scottish Parliament ban no - fault eviction back in 2017 . do the Minister agree that that be yet another example of the Scottish Parliament deliver for the people while Westminster dysfunction only let they down ? as I say to the hon . member for Putney ( Fleur Anderson ) , we be abolish section 21 eviction . the Bill will return to the House on Wednesday . cost of Public Services : Coastal Areas what recent estimate he have make of the additional cost to the public purse of council deliver public service in coastal area . Cornwall be one of the most beautiful area of the country , second only to Dorset . [ interruption . ] thank you . it have the long county coastline in England and , as such , its council face unique challenge in deliver service . the Government be commit to reform the local government fund landscape in the next Parliament to deliver simple , fair and long settlement . as part of that process , the Government have previously publicly announce that they be explore option for specific formulae for flooding and coastal erosion . we will engage council about those option as reform progress . the Government have already accept the additional cost of deliver service in rural area through the rural service delivery grant , but they have not yet accept those additional cost for coastal area . would the Minister consider establish a coastal service delivery grant to ensure that coastal region such as Cornwall , which as he say have the long — and most beautiful — coastline in the country , get the funding that they need ? second most beautiful , I remind my hon . friend . he make an important point , represent as he do his constituent and the wide county of Cornwall , and an interesting suggestion . strong point sit behind his argument . I would be delighted to meet he to discuss that far , but he make good point and give I food for thought . the cost of deliver service in Somerset be rise , with care cost rise by 47 % between 2022 and 2023 , yet urban council receive about 38 % more Government funding spending power per head than rural council . what step be the Department take to address that inequality and help rural council to deliver vital public service ? as the hon . Lady will know , the rural service delivery grant try to reflect that as well , but if only the Lib Dem leadership of her council have get on — as Dorset do — and deliver the benefit of go unitary , rather than fiddle while Rome burn , her situation might be a little well . Metro Mayors : local Economies what assessment he have make of the impact of Metro Mayors on their local economy . what assessment he have make of the impact of Metro Mayors on their local economy . what step he be take to increase engagement between his Department and elect Mayors . our Mayors play a powerful role in drive economic growth , improve public service and give local area a powerful voice on the national stage . I meet all the Mayors as a group before Christmas , as well as Mayor Brabin , as chair of UK Mayors this year , and a number of Mayors on an individual basis . I look forward to meet and work closely with all the Mayors , collectively and individually , after the May election , include the three new Mayors who will be elect for the East Midlands , the North - East Combined Authority , and York and North Yorkshire . since he be first elect in 2017 , Andy Street have deliver £ 10 billion of new investment to the west midland region , more housing — particularly on brownfield land — and much - need investment in transport infrastructure across the region . do the Secretary of State agree that , when voter go to the poll next week , they should support Andy Street to continue that track record of delivery for the west midland ? I agree with my hon . friend . Andy Street have be outstanding at deliver job and more home in the west midland than in any other region , accord to housing target . he have do so despite the failure of Birmingham City Council , which be drive into bankruptcy by Labour . can my right hon . friend far update colleague and my constituent on the progress of the Greater Lincolnshire devolution deal , follow the deal approve at upper tier council level early this year ? we have be consult and we have listen , and we will have to wait until after 2 May to say more . I be look forward to work with my hon . friend to make Lincolnshire great again . give that after 2 may there will be 12 metro Mayors directly represent 27 million people in England , do the Secretary of State think that there should be a dedicated formal structure that will enable the metro Mayors to work more effectively with Whitehall Government , rather than the somewhat ad hoc structure that be currently in place ? that be a fair point . the ad hoc structure that the hon . Gentleman describe work well . all the exist Mayors work well together , and all party politic aside , it have be instructive to see the kind word that Andy Burnham have direct towards Andy Street and vice versa . now that the mayoral model , which have work overall with one or two slight bump in the road , have reach a level of maturity , his point be very fair . voter in the upcoming North Yorkshire mayoral election be face significant economic hardship and deserve to know that their money be be spend responsibly . do the Secretary of State share my concern that one candidate in the North Yorkshire mayoral race have make over £ 300 million of unfunded spending commitment for the county ? could central Government perhaps provide an assessment of the economic impact of such spending commitment ? it be strike that the conservative candidate in North Yorkshire be the only one who have a plan for growth , and a long - term plan for York and North Yorkshire ' s economy . when it come to value for money for our Mayors , I should point out that the Conservative Mayors for Tees Valley and for the West Midlands , Ben Houchen and Andy Street , levy not a penny in extra mayoral taxation , unlike the Labour Mayor in London , whose spendthrift way will see he throw out on 2 May . I call the shadow Secretary of State . despite that love - in , as the Mayor of the West Midlands , Andy Street have over - promise and under - deliver . almost 70 % of devolved housing fund have not be use , and he have do nothing to tackle rogue landlord . the mayoral model can work , and Sadiq Khan ' s affordable housebuilding in London be evidence of that . when do the Secretary of State last meet Andy Street , and do he raise those failure with he ? I talk to Andy Street constantly because he be a model of what a strong Mayor should be . the right hon . Lady talk about housing . there be housing target set at a regional level — which Mayor miss they by most ? Sadiq Khan in London . which Mayor have exceed those target ? Andy Street in the west midland . Sadiq Khan have fail on housing , fail on crime and fail on transport , and he will be kick out on 2 May . roll on a general election . Sadiq Khan have be build a well London for everyone . if the right hon . Gentleman want more evidence of Mayors work , he should look up north : Tracy Brabin , Steve Rotheram and Andy Burnham have be bring transport service back under public control , give well value for money . in the Tees Valley , we see the opposite . the review into Lord Houchen ' s mishandle of Teesworks find " the principle of spend public money be not be consistently observe . " so why will the Secretary of State not give the National Audit Office the chance to investigate ? I be sure the right hon . Lady be very , very keen that all sort of matter be investigate properly by independent figure who can be trust , but in the Tees Valley Ben Houchen have do more than any other Metro Mayor to bring job and investment into his region . the thousand of job create in Teesworks stand in stark contrast to labour ' s failure , from London to Liverpool , to bring in the job require . Andy Street , I should reinforce , be the single most successful Mayor in the country . that be why both Andy and Ben will be re - elect on 2 May , alongside Conservative Mayors in York and North Yorkshire , the East Midlands and , of course , London . fire defect : remediation Costs what step he be take to help prevent ( a ) leaseholder and ( b ) tenant pay for the remediation of fire defect . no qualifying leaseholder in a building above 11 metre in England will be liable for clad remediation cost . where we be able to do so and where they still exist , we be make those who cause these issue pay to resolve they . in my constituency , resident be ask for transparency in their service charge . they be fearful that they be be charge for survey for fire remediation work , which be the responsibility of the developer and not the people who live in the flat and who be not the cause of those problem . what will the Government do for people in Master Gunner Place or Grove Place in my constituency , where people be ask question but not get answer on why they be pay these excessive charge ? in one case , there be a 107 % increase in the service charge . the Government be make all the right noise , but I do not see much result at the sharp end for my constituent . I totally agree with the hon . Gentleman that it be absolutely vital there be transparency in how , when and why leaseholder be be charge . that be why we have do one thing and be do another thing in the past few week alone . last week , on the new building safety approach for high - rise building , we be very clear in a joint letter about highlight the importance of temperate remuneration and cost . secondly , we need to continue to bring forward the reform in the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Bill , which will see a transformation in transparency on service charge . the Government bring that Bill forward and it will come through as soon as the other place have conclude its observation . the Minister have do good work in protect leaseholder and renter from remediation cost above 11 metre . as a leaseholder myself , I be a bit baffled as to why people be not protect when fire remediation measure be necessary below 11 metre . I would be grateful if he could explain the Government ' s reasoning . when the Building Safety Act 2022 , which put in place the differentiation , be go through , we be very clear and ask colleague , on the Floor of the House , for any example of where there be potential issue below 11 metre . if my right hon . friend or any other Member have an issue , I would be very keen to hear from they . the reality be that , over the past two year nearly , we have receive only 160 potential issue . of those , we can count on one hand where there have be a problem . we be work with each of those three building to make the progress we need to make . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . the Select Committee welcome the more than £ 2 billion provide through the building safety fund to private leaseholder with regard to remediation due to fire safety work . on the other hand , social housing provider receive only £ 200 million , which be about 10 % of the amount go to private leaseholder . how can it possibly be fair that in a block of flat a private leaseholder get their remediation cost pay , but in the same flat next door a social housing tenant have to pay for the total cost out of their rent ? that simply be not fair . minister have accept the unfairness in the past . when will they do something about it ? as my constituency neighbour recognise , there be , rightly , a substantial amount of taxpayer subsidy for remediation . we be try to ensure that that taxpayer subsidy be then claw back from those responsible for the problem in the first place . where there be challenge and issue with register provider , we be very happy to talk to they . we have do that and we have make change where necessary . follow a fire last summer , timber and unplasticized polyvinyl chloride cladding on 586 home in the borough of Barnet be identify as need remediation . a number of those home be in my constituency . homeowner be face bill of £ 23 , 000 . will the Government help they with those bill ? this important issue be very much on our radar , and one that we be work through . I have meeting about it only a few day ago , and I continue to do so . perhaps I could update my right hon . friend separately outside the Chamber with further information about our propose approach . I call the shadow Minister . soar service charge be place an intolerable financial strain on leaseholder and those with share ownership across the country . among the main driver of the eye - water demand with which many have be serve over recent month be stagger rise in building insurance premium and the passing on of significant cost relate to the functioning of the new building safety regime . give that many leaseholder be be push to the very limit of what they can afford , do the Government now accept that the service charge transparency provision in the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Bill — and plead with freeholder to take a temperate approach — be not enough , and that Ministers should explore with urgency what further measure could be include to protect leaseholder well from unreasonable charge and give they more control over their building ? the hon . Gentleman be aware that our substantial reform package set out clearly and transparently the change that be be introduce and what people be expect to pay . it could not be clear than it be in the legislation , which be one of my reason for want it to proceed as quickly as possible . when there be issue , we be keen to look at they and , where we can , take action , but the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Bill be design to improve transparency and reduce problem , and I be sure that it will do that once it have complete its passage here and in the other place . local Plans whether he have make an estimate of the number of planning authority that do not have an up - to - date local plan . at the end of March 2024 , 110 local planning authority — a third of the total — have adopt a local plan in the past five year , while 291 have plan that be more than five year old . of those , more than half be make progress towards update their plan . the Government have make it clear that authority should continue to update their plan because that be the good way to deliver development that be in the interest of local community . my liberal Democrat - run local council be one of those without an up - to - date local plan . in fact , it have now delay its plan until 2026 , which mean that place such as Burbage have housing without full protection . that put pressure on our GP service , our school place and even our road . what more can the Government do to persuade Liberal Democrat - run Hinckley and Bosworth Borough Council to ensure that its plan be establish and update so that my resident have the require protection ? my hon . friend have raise this matter in the Chamber before , and it be a great example of why it be so important that Bosworth have this Conservative Member of Parliament to highlight the challenge and failure of the Liberal Democrat council . ultimately , the Government will not hesitate to take action against council that be not fulfil their obligation . indeed , my right hon . friend the Secretary of State have do so over the past few month , and we will continue to do so , because we expect council to do their job and put their plan in place . when Liberal Democrat council fail to do that , we will call they out . York have one of the bad housing crisis in the country , yet we have not have a local plan to restrain developer for 68 year . why have it take this Tory Government more than 14 year to deliver a local plan for York ? I be relatively clear that the Labour party have be in charge of York for a substantial proportion of the last 14 year . if the hon . Lady want an answer to her question about why there be no local plan , she should look to her own party . to help local authority finalise their local plan , my hon . friend and his ministerial colleague have make significant change to the planning rule . as a result , Wiltshire have cut its house building by 9 , 000 , North Somerset have reduce its house building plan by 29 % , and Three Rivers and other be do likewise , to ensure that local plan well reflect their community . do my hon . friend expect all local authority to consider whether the new rule apply in their community ? it be vital for local council to follow what be in the national planning policy framework . we know that where local plan be in place council build more house , but , most important , they build more house in the right place , so that community can be confident that they be be build where they be need . the problem with the Government ' s developer - lead approach to planning be that it mean that we see house build for demand , but not for local need . in a community such as the Lake District , developer will sell anything they can build , but will it meet the need of local community ? often it will not . will the Minister ensure that local authority and national park put together local plan be allow to designate land specifically and exclusively for genuinely affordable housing so that they can say no to the house we do not need and yes to the one we do ? as the hon . Gentleman know , the planning system have a substantial amount of flexibility — it be one of the frustration — to ensure that local council do the right thing . where they do the right thing , they should be celebrate ; where they do not , we should criticise they and hope that they be throw out . if the hon . Gentleman be argue against developer - lead planning — capitalism , as it be otherwise know — that be a very interesting place for liberalism in this country to go . Community Ownership Fund what assessment his Department have make of the potential impact of the community ownership fund on local community . what assessment his Department have make of the potential impact of the community ownership fund on local community . community ownership can boost local connection and pride of place , and bolster resilience . so far , we have award about £ 103 million to 333 project across the UK . we be work with an external evaluation partner on an evaluation of the fund . we be already see some great example of COF project make a real difference to their community , such as grow the Glens in Northern Ireland and East Boldre community store in the south - east of England . there have already be three worthy beneficiary of the community ownership fund in my constituency : the village shop in Llandyrnog ; the Salusbury Arms in Tremeirchion , which the Minister have visit ; and Rhyl football club , which hope to secure the future of its ground , Belle Vue . his Department have be very helpful throughout , but what further advice and guidance can be provide for applicant in future round ? I enjoy visit the Salusbury Arms with my hon . friend and raise a glass to the community there . ahead of round 4 , we launch a brand - new expression of interest process , which provide interested applicant with an outcome within minute . to support applicant at the fourth stage , we have also update the prospectus and other guidance on gov . uk . we want to help as many community as possible to benefit from the fund , spread the benefit of level up nationwide . do the Minister agree that the recent grant of £ 452 , 700 to the Owain Glynd ŵ r hotel in Corwen , in Clwyd South , be a wonderful example of the hugely beneficial impact of the community ownership fund on local community ? the grant will enable this much - love hotel to play a central role in the town again , and to benefit from the reopening of Corwen station and the other project in Corwen arise from my Clwyd South levelling - up fund . I thank my hon . friend for highlight that exciting project , which seek to secure the future of the Owain Glynd ŵ r hotel and develop it into a community social hub showcase the life and history of the area . I agree that the project be a great example of what the community ownership fund seek to do across our United Kingdom . the fund not only safeguard priceless and much - love local asset , but support ambition and build opportunity in local area . I will be visit north Wales in the very near future and will test my diary to see whether it be possible to swing by and say , " da iawn . " the Minister mention pub that have be rescue and secure for the community , but where historic local pub , which be at one time hub of the community , have be wreck by absentee owner and therefore require capital investment , do he envisage the funding be use in that regard as well ? the fund be open to community group , charity , and town and parish council . I can not promise the hon . Gentleman that the pub to which he refer would be eligible , but I be more than happy to meet he follow this session to get further detail . Mr Speaker , I know you know that there could not possibly be a well project to receive funding from the Government than the Rhondda tunnel , which would connect Blaencwm and Blaengwynfi — I be very happy to dangle all the Ministers down the hole and into the tunnel , if they ever want to come and see it . I know the Secretary of State know all about it , because I have two meeting with he about it several year ago . I have meet lot of Ministers who have privately be very supportive and tell I to apply for this , that or the other fund , but not a single penny have yet transpire . an official have recently tell Rhondda Cynon Taf County Borough Council that it should make a specific exemption for an application for money . be that still a possibility , to ensure that the Rhondda tunnel come to pass ? I do not think that the community ownership fund be the appropriate fund . as I have just say to the hon . member for Leyton and Wanstead ( John Cryer ) , the community ownership fund be open to charity , to community group and to town and parish council , but with regard to the hon . Gentleman ' s tunnel project , I would be more than happy to meet he and identify what funding opportunity be available . town Fund what assessment he have make of the potential impact of the town fund on local community . as part of their town investment plan , place be require to consult extensively with local community and to evidence how this feedback shape their plan . the impact of the town fund on local community be also a crucial part of the town fund impact evaluation , to be publish in early 2026 . one success of the town fund be the breadth of project , which in King ' s Lynn include Shakespeare ' s St George ' s guildhall , a new community library and adult skill centre and a school of nursing study . can my hon . friend confirm that the very welcome extra £ 20 million through the long - term plan for town that Lynn have just be award can be use to complement those scheme as well as to secure other investment into the area ? I thank my hon . friend for his commitment to level up in King ' s Lynn and across Norfolk . our long - term plan for town put power back into the hand of local people . each town must set up a new town board , comprise of local community representative and the Members of Parliament for the respective area , who be responsible for develop the long - term plan for their area , underpin by evidence of extensive community engagement . this plan can include the regeneration project that my hon . friend have mention , if that be consider a local priority . I look forward to work with he and to see the plan when they be finally bring forward . I thank the Minister for his answer . he will recall that I ask some time ago about the Ards and North Down Council ' s Whitespots project — a historical project for tourism that relate to the second world war and also to the history of mining in the area . the Minister say that when the Northern Ireland Assembly be up and run , he would be keen to ensure that the project could take place . can he confirm that the money necessary for the project be there , and will he ensure that he , as Minister , do everything he can to make it happen ? I can not give the hon . Gentleman the assurance that he seek , but I can say that the £ 30 million that be set aside for Northern Ireland in round 3 of the levelling - up fund have be give to the Northern Ireland Executive as part of the Executive reformation fund . I be in Northern Ireland over the recess , where we be celebrate more than £ 435 million of levelling - up funding go to Northern Ireland since 2019 . I call the shadow Minister . it be now approach five year since the town fund be launch , promise £ 3 . 6 billion of investment to level up the country . Most of it remain unspent , and the cross - party Public Accounts Committee have say that the Department for Levelling up could not " give any compelling example of what have be deliver so far " . that be a damn assessment of this five year of the fund , never mind after 14 year in power — so , Minister , why be this Government such a failure ? I think that be quite poor , Mr Speaker . the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency have itself benefit from £ 11 . 1 million of UK share prosperity funding and £ 13 . 4 million from the levelling up fund . next to he I see the hon . member for Oldham West and Royton ( Jim McMahon ) , whose constituency have benefit from £ 24 . 4 million from the town fund . Oldham be also the recipient of £ 10 . 8 million from the future high street fund . we be level up right across the country , include in the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency . Government Funding : Local Authorities what assessment he have make of the adequacy of the level of Government funding allocate to local authority . in answer to the hon . Lady ' s question , we make continuous assessment with regard to the adequacy of funding . in this financial year we have make £ 64 . 7 billion available to local government in England , an above - inflation increase for local authority as their real - term increase in core spending power be now up to £ 4 . 5 billion or 7 . 5 % in cash term . that include the additional measure for local authority , worth £ 600 million , that we announce on 25 January , have listen to the view of local government , to her view when she engage in the consultation and to the view of hon . and right hon . friend across Shropshire . I thank the Minister for his answer , but we have see Shropshire Council make £ 50 million of cut this year , and we be tell that there will be £ 60 million of cut next year to avoid a section 144 notice . local resident be particularly concerned about the potential closure of recycling centre and a likely increase in fly - tipping across our beautiful countryside . do the Minister agree that rural council be in danger of deliver nothing more than statutory service if thing continue ? will he consider adjust the way that funding be allocate so that rural council be give an amount that reflect the cost of deliver service in their area ? the hon . Lady be right to point to the need to review the formula , which be a commitment for the next Parliament . she will probably be aware — I hope she be — of the £ 8 . 9 million extra that Shropshire Council receive this year through the rural service delivery grant in order to deliver those sort of service . do I think rural council have to reduce to statutory service alone ? no . all my engagement with the sector point to a vibrancy and a commitment to innovation , shape place and improve the life of people up and down the country , include in Shropshire . trevor from the Drighlington memory caf é — Trevor have be ably support by our fantastic Morley town mayor — Nicola from the Morley grief group , Dan from WF3 Kindness and Christine from the veteran luncheon club be just some of the amazing volunteer and community group in my area who give up their time to help local people . will the Minister join I in thank and pay tribute to the unsung hero in our community across the country ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . we should never lose an opportunity to trumpet our thank to people like Trevor , Christine and all our volunteer up and down the country who make such a difference to people ' s life . they work alongside council and other body to make life well and happy , and to make place more pleasant to live . I thank they unreservedly . funding cut be add to the clear pressure on local government around the country . one such example be developer who come armed with substantial fund and resource to contest their planning application . locally , Warwick District Council have an application just last week that the planning committee be essentially advise to allow because of a fear of not have the financial resource to contest it . I have write to the Secretary of State about this issue . should we be extremely concerned about it nationally ? each planning authority have a quasi - judicial role to adjudge planning application against national and local plan , and I have every confidence that plan committee up and down the country do that . if the hon . Gentleman wish to refer to a 7 . 5 % cash - term increase for local government in this financial year as a cut , that be a very eccentric definition even for a Labour Member . minister be aware that Maldon District Council be allocate £ 5 million of levelling - up funding . my right hon . friend the Member for Maldon ( Sir John Whittingdale ) , the council and I have be inform that the funding must be spend on cultural project , despite our have a local plan that will see the closure of St Peter ' s Hospital . we want the money to be spend on level up health and wellbeing , which be one of the five principle of level up . will Ministers urgently review all our representation so that we can work at pace to sort out this terrible issue and level up our health situation ? my right hon . friend make a powerful point , and I know St Peter ' s Hospital pretty well from a previous life . the Under - Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , my hon . friend the Member for Redcar ( Jacob Young ) , have signal to I that he be aware of the issue , have sympathy with my right hon . friend and will be happy to meet she in pretty quick time to discuss further detail . I call the shadow Minister . work people be pay the price of the cost of living crisis , but be it not the truth that the Liz Truss mini - Budget do not occur in a vacuum ? there be a pattern of the Tories shift the tax burden on to hard - press household . council tax bill have rocket by almost £ 500 since the Tories come to power , on top of which conservative council charge resident almost £ 280 more than their Labour counterpart . as voter go to the poll on 2 May , do the Minister hope that they will somehow forget the council tax bombshell face they ? or do he expect that more candidate will follow the lead of the west midland campaign and ditch the toxic Tory brand completely ? the hon . Gentleman win first prize in the brass neck of the afternoon competition ; I remind he gently and politely about the situation in Birmingham . it be well know by resident up and down the land that Conservative - lead council be more efficient , deliver great improvement at pace and be far more focused on deliver for their resident . colleague and I will take that proud record to the voter during this local election campaign , and I have every confidence we will triumph in it . Community Ownership Fund what the criterion be for allocation of round 4 of the community ownership fund . our decision - make criterion for the community ownership fund can be find in the publish explanatory note on gov . uk . round 4 window 1 have now close and will be assess accord to those criterion . round 4 window 2 will open in the come week . I be delighted to hear that so many project have receive a large amount of money to take over community centre , heritage building , pub and sporting facility . the list also include green space , so will the Minister confirm that if a community group want to buy part of a chalk stream that be for sale for the benefit of that community , that would be within the scope of the community ownership fund ? I would be happy to meet my hon . friend to discuss this matter . we have fund similar land purchase , but this will be dependent on the factor locally . rough Sleeping what progress he have make on end rough sleeping . what step his Department be take to end rough sleeping . the Government be commit to end rough sleeping . we publish our cross - government strategy " end rough sleeping for good " in September 2022 , and we be invest an unprecedented £ 2 . 4 billion to tackle homelessness and rough sleeping over three year . rough sleeping level be 18 % low in 2023 than they be at the peak in 2017 and they be 9 % low than pre - pandemic level . this Government and Department have preside over a litany of failure . the conservative party have pledge to end rough sleeping by the end of this Parliament . I have to disagree with the hon . Lady , because rough sleeping number be yet again on the up . instead of fulfil their manifesto commitment , the Government have prioritise criminalise the homeless , rather than end homelessness . even many conservative Back Benchers can not support that , so when will this Department ' s leadership grow a backbone and tell their colleague in the Home Office to shelve the pernicious plan that exist within the Criminal Justice Bill ? this Government be absolutely committed to end rough sleeping , which be why we be invest £ 2 . 4 billion . importantly , £ 1 . 2 billion be go into prevention , so that we prevent homelessness before it happen . I want to address the point about the Criminal Justice Bill . the Government be clear that no one should be criminalise for have nowhere to live . the Bill give power to the police and local authority only where behaviour cause damage , distress , harassment or disruption . Guidance will be issue that make it clear that outreach and support should be prioritise . I welcome the fact that the Government be invest £ 2 . 4 billion on tackle homelessness and rough sleeping . notwithstanding what the Minister just say , do she agree that we need to help people off the street , not risk criminalise they , as be regrettably propose in part of the Criminal Justice Bill ? I thank my hon . friend for his word welcome Government expenditure on tackle rough sleeping and homelessness . the Government be very focused on help the most vulnerable in our society , who be often rough sleeper . that be a cross - government effort . for instance , I work closely with the Department for Education on care leaver and I work closely with the Department of Health and Social Care on those who have addiction . I reassure my hon . friend that no one will be criminalise simply for sleep rough . I call the shadow Minister . as well as try to criminalise rough sleeper , put they in jail and give they a hefty fine , it be crystal clear that the Government will not meet their target to end rough sleeping by the end of 2024 . rough sleeping be all too plain to see — as we walk into this place or go to any city or town , we see the tragic consequence of Government policy . be it not now time for minister to do the right thing : end section 21 no - fault eviction for good — no ifs , no but ; no excuse and narrative about the court — and build the home for social rent at the scale the country need ? if they do not do that , we will . we be abolish section 21 and build affordable home . where be affordable home not be build ? in London . planning System what step he be take to help improve the efficiency of the planning system . we be take significant step to speed up the planning system . in large infrastructure project , that be through the nationally significant infrastructure project action plan and the " get Great Britain build again " policy paper . in relation to the TCPA , we be offer great clarity through the republication of the national planning policy framework , great consistency through instruct local council to ensure that they discharge their responsibility , and great capacity through additional support for local council . can I convey the extreme irritation of two parish in my constituency that have have five location for a mobile phone mast turn down ? give that mobile connectivity be now an essential requirement , be it not time that local authority advise on which technically feasible location they would be prepare to grant planning permission ? local people could then say where they be happy for such project to go , and we would end this stupid cat - and - mouse game that waste time and mean people do not get the connectivity they need . my hon . friend be right that connectivity be vital in all our community . it be incumbent upon local council , include his council in Bedfordshire , to ensure that they be provide the great clarity possible for that connectivity and that it be put in place . Interfaith Dialogue what step his Department be take to help promote interfaith dialogue . this Government be extremely supportive of effort to bring together people of different faith and belief . the faith Minister meet regularly with faith leader to encourage these effort , and the Department have fund a range of partner , include Near Neighbours and strengthen Faith Institutions , to organise local level interfaith dialogue . I thank the Minister for her answer , but two month ago the Secretary of State announce that he would pull funding from the Inter Faith Network , which be the large interfaith charity on these island . it will close next week , after 40 year . it be an astonishing decision by the UK Government to close Britain ' s main forum for jewish - muslim dialogue now . the Secretary of State could still reverse that very poor decision , but that would have to happen this week . what be the chance of that ? let I explain what occur . the closure of the Inter Faith Network be a matter for the Inter Faith Network , as an independent charity ; it be not a matter for Government . we have always make it very clear to all charity that receive Government funding that they need to have sustainable source of other funding . in my response to the urgent question about a month ago , I make clear the reason for the closure . to repeat , the decision to withdraw the funding be take because of the appointment of a member of the Muslim Council of Britain as a trustee . government of various different hue have decide that they will not deal with the Muslim Council of Britain . Topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . SHiFT be an inspirational charity run by a visionary social entrepreneur , Sophie Humphreys . it work in order to ensure that young people at risk of engage with the criminal justice system be divert to well outcome . on Thursday , two new SHiFT intervention will open in Middlesbrough and in Redcar and Cleveland , with the support of £ 3 . 9 million from my Department . that be proof that when it come to intervene early to give young people a well life , it be a Conservative Government and a Conservative Mayor in Tees Valley who be deliver for the most vulnerable . the levelling - up funding award to my constituency three year ago for the upgrade of the b714 have still not be deliver . however , when I have raise concern that the funding be insufficient for the upgrade , give inflationary pressure , the Secretary of State for Levelling up tell I to raise the matter with the Department for Transport , which in turn refer I back to the Secretary of State . can I have an explanation from the Secretary of State as to how approve project can proceed as envisage , even if funding be deliver , when inflation be not factor into the funding ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady for make that point . I can offer she , and also the Member of the Scottish Parliament for North Ayrshire and North Ayrshire Council , a meeting with I , so that we can deliver this project , because I know that she be absolutely committed to ensure that the levelling - up fund — UK Government money — be spend effectively in her constituency . that be proof that we work well together . Ynys M ô n be look forward to host the fourth Islands Forum on 7 and 8 May . it be an opportunity to showcase our heritage , culture and language . it be also an opportunity for Ministers to see at first hand how the £ 17 million from the UK levelling - up fund be transform Holyhead . will the Secretary of State accept my invitation to visit St Cybi ' s church , the Ucheldre centre and the Newry beach shelter to see how the UK Government be create job and a bright future for Holyhead ? and will he sign up to my Aldi to Amlwch campaign ? Diolch . I be look forward more than I can say to visit Ynys M ô n . this be a fantastic example of a brilliant Conservative MP securing funding for Wales , for the Welsh language , for Welsh job and for Welsh investment . may I say that Anglesey have never flourish in the way it be now flourish with she as its MP ? I call the SNP spokesperson . we know that the Tories continually prioritise their banker mate over the rest of the country . an example of that be in the spring Budget when the Chancellor announce levelling - up funding for Canary Wharf — an area that be home to some of the world ' s big bank — which will receive more that £ 16 , 000 per head in funding commitment compare with Scotland . with the Leader of the Opposition and his Labour party back Tory tax and spending plan and u - turn on cap banker ’ bonus , do the Secretary of State agree that the Labour party offer no real alternative for the people of Scotland ? I just remind everyone that we be on topical question . I think SNP press release have suffer recently as a result of the travail that the chief executive of that party have be suffer , but as SNP press release go , that have to be one of the weak I have ever hear in this House . the Scottish Government be close VisitScotland centre , they can not deliver ferry , Scotland be plunge down the educational league table , and , when it come to deliver service in Scotland , theatre , community centre and council be come to we for cash . the Scottish Government be a disaster , and all the hon . Lady can do be repeat the fail talking point — order . Secretary of State , that be completely outrageous , after I have just say that we be on topical . please do not take advantage of your own member . it be not fair to they and it be not fair to the rest of the Chamber . what step be my right hon . friend take to attract long - term landlord back to small coastal town ? my hon . friend have be a long - stand campaigner for balance within coastal community . I know that both she and colleague from the south - west and elsewhere be very keen to see some of the reform that the Government be introduce on short - term let and the change to the planning system . in the 2019 conservative manifesto , the Government make this commitment : " we will continue with our reform to leasehold include implement our ban on the sale of new leasehold home , restrict ground rent to a peppercorn , and provide necessary mechanism of redress for tenant . " that still have not happen , so either they do not believe it then , they have not think it through , or the Minister have be nobble by the Prime Minister . which one be it ? our Leasehold and Freehold Reform Bill be make great progress in the House of Lords . it be be debate today and I look forward to the right hon . Gentleman support it when it come back here and get on to the statute book . I call Mr Richard Bacon — not here . give the proximity to the local and general election , can minister give an assurance that the joint election security preparedness unit have all the resource it need to do the job ? this be a tremendously serious issue . my Department and other Government Departments , lead by the Security Minister in the Home Office , be spend a huge amount of time , effort and resource in ensure the safety of candidate ; the safety , security and robustness of the process ; and that all those who wish to take part in our democratic function , in whichever fora they happen to manifest themselves , can do so safely and securely . that be a very firm commitment . the hon . Member will know that we be deal with that as a serious matter . in constituency such as Aldridge - Brownhills , our green belt be precious ; and once it have go , it have go forever . but in the west midland , thank to the leadership and vision of Mayor Andy Street and his " brownfield first " approach , we have see 16 , 000 new home build , and thousand of new job on brownfield land . do my right hon . friend agree that that clearly demonstrate that we can build the new home we need and protect the green belt , and that it be Andy Street who be set the pace and lead the way in the west midland ? that be spot on . it be Andy Street and conservative council in Walsall , Dudley and Solihull that be deliver house and protect the green belt . that be well for economic growth , well for the environment , and well than bankrupt Labour Birmingham . over 1 , 000 family in Luton South be stick in temporary accommodation , with wait time range from three to nine month for a one - bed property to eight to nine year for a three - bed . across the country there have be a staggering 119 % increase in temporary accommodation number since 2019 . do the Minister agree that that be just a direct cost of 14 year of conservative failure on housing ? the Government be very focused on temporary accommodation . that be why we be invest £ 2 . 4 billion , of which £ 1 . 2 billion be specifically for the homelessness prevention grant . in the last Budget , we increase the local housing allowance rate to the 30th percentile . that be worth £ 1 . 2 billion . we have also increase the local authority housing fund . please can my right hon . friend set out what the Government be do to ensure that more young people can live in their own home as early as possible in their adult life , and specifically whether great consideration can be give to mechanism that result in only one affordable payment be make a month , rather than one mortgage payment and one rental payment ? my hon . friend make an important point . we need to look to reform both the mortgage market and our planning system . we will bring forward further step on both in the come week . in community such as Kendal , Appleby , Allithwaite and Milnthorpe , developer have use viability assessment to renege on build desperately need and genuinely affordable home , so will the Government give planning authority the power to declare null and void any planning permission where the developer can not or will not deliver the affordable home that they have promise ? I know how important it be to deliver affordable home in the Lake district , in the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency . we will take a close look at the example he cite , to ensure that we be not kill the goose that lie the golden egg . tourism be vital to Bournemouth ' s economy , and half our visitor come by car . a few choose to park on double yellow line for the day , as the parking penalty be only £ 35 , unlike here in London where it be £ 65 , increase to £ 130 if not pay promptly . do the Secretary of State agree that it would be immensely helpful , and would ensure that emergency vehicle access be not block , be Bournemouth allow to operate the same penalty as we have in London ? my right hon . friend be right : antisocial parking be a blight outside London , and we need to review extend the power that be currently exercise in London to other part of the country . time and again , leasehold owner come to I with unfair bill for service charge . they be inflate , and they be even for undelivered service . when I get involve , they be often drop by a third instantly . what will the Government do to ensure that developer be not try to rip off homeowner , and instead get bill right the first time ? fair point . Frank Dobson say that he be go to reform the leasehold system in 1995 . we be do it now . the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Bill , which the Minister for Housing , Planning and Building Safety , my hon . friend the Member for North East Derbyshire ( Lee Rowley ) , be pilot , will bring relief to leaseholder . a raft of Labour councillor in Kirklees have resign from their party , with one of they describe their leadership as a " toxic swamp , " so it will come as no surprise to my right hon . friend that the local conservative campaign to split Kirklees and get well leadership and accountability be really gather momentum . do he agree that leadership need to be locally drive , and that the good way to achieve that be to vote for more conservative councillor on 2 May — order . this be not fair . just tell I which question you don ' t want , and it will make my job easy . my hon . friend be absolutely right : we need change in Kirklees . the good way in which people can demonstrate their desire for change and the reconfiguration of Kirklees be by vote Conservative on 2 May . today be Earth Day . the Government introduce the zero carbon home standard and the code for sustainable home and then scrap they . the future home standard now have centralise support , but local authority such as Leeds want to go above plan policy to reach high standard . why will the Secretary of State not allow leed to build even well zero carbon home ? we have a good relationship with Leeds City Council , and indeed with its leader and chief executive , so let I investigate . Ben Houchen have do a remarkable job of save our airport , oversee the redevelopment of Teesworks , and secure new job . do my right hon . friend agree that , give Ben ' s record of deliver and the promise of more , voter should back he on 2 May ? that be an easy one . it be an easy one ! you be right , Mr Speaker : everyone should back Ben Houchen — let I help : it be an easy one for you to answer . now let we move on . I thank the Under - Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , the hon . member for North Dorset ( Simon Hoare ) , for his reply to my letter of 21 March . he say that a short paper on the topic of the Union be prepare by official and present to the UK Government in July 2020 . however , a media report at the time suggest that an employee of Hanbury Strategy have provide datum and help to prepare that paper for the Cabinet . be public money use for the insight that Hanbury Strategy prepare for that paper , and when will the public get to see they ? once again , I have to admire the sheer chutzpah of Scottish National party member talk about the misappropriation of cash . however , as I mention early , the Scottish Government ' s budget have lead to the closure of 25 tourist information centre and a variety of other venture that be try to get investment into Scotland , whereas the UK Government be provide investment in Scotland — prove once again that we be well together . my constituent be increasingly concerned about the number of planning application be approve — particularly in rural area — when the infrastructure and public service quite evidently can not cope with the demand . what plan do minister have to ensure that local resident have more say in future ? the new national planning policy framework , as enact by this Front - Bench team , will ensure that local voice determine the shape of local community . my constituent who live on the Abbottsmoor estate in Port Talbot be lock into pay unjustified and extortionate ground rent fee and charge for poor maintenance . will the Secretary of State commit to strengthen the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Bill by ensure that all leaseholder have the right to vary their lease , set ground rent to a peppercorn , ensure that premium be as cheap as possible , regulate manage agent , and abolish forfeiture ? I always listen with respect to argument make by a Kinnock , and in this case , I think the hon . Gentleman be broadly — broadly — in the right territory . what step be be take to ensure that planning authority and , more importantly , the Planning Inspectorate be utilise the power in the new NPPF to protect land use in food production ? the NPPF could not be clear about that . the new chief executive of the Planning Inspectorate be very aware of how important it be to ensure that there be public confidence in the NPPF . my constituency have some of the high level of health inequality in the country , which have be far increase by the cost of live crisis and the continual cut to our council budget . if the Government be serious about level up , why be Bradford East ' s bid to reduce health inequality knock back ? the labour leadership in Bradford Council must look to its performance . I think there be a distinction to be draw between the Labour leadership in Leeds and in Bradford — Bradford could learn a lot from what Leeds have do . this be not a party political point ; it be a point about failure specifically in Bradford . my constituent have significant concern about crime and antisocial behaviour in the town centre . public space protection order can play an important role , but the local Labour council refuse to use the power it have . we have group of man drink alcohol in the middle of the town centre , and the council do nothing . do the Secretary of State agree that , yet again , Ipswich Labour should step up ? it be sad , but not surprising , that Labour in Ipswich have fail again . that be why it be so important that people vote Conservative at the police and crime commissioner election on 2 May . there be few more effective scourge of crime than the conservative police and crime commissioner , Tim Passmore , and my hon . friend , who do such a brilliant job in Ipswich . Sudan : Government Response ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Deputy Foreign Secretary if he will make a statement on the Government ' s response to the crisis in Sudan . I thank the hon . Lady for her question . Britain be pursue all diplomatic avenue to press the war party into a permanent ceasefire , allow unrestricted humanitarian access , protect civilian , and commit to a sustained and meaningful peace process . I visit eastern Chad last month , where I meet with refugee who have lose everything and be flee conflict and hunger . I be greatly move by what I see , and reaffirm Britain ' s steadfast commitment to the people of Sudan . some 88 % of those cross the border be woman and child . on Monday , to mark one year of brutal conflict in Sudan , Britain announce its third raft of sanction , target two entity link to the Rapid Support Forces and one entity link to the sudanese armed force . on the same day , my noble Friend Lord Benyon represent the UK at the Paris humanitarian pledge conference for Sudan and its neighbour . on behalf of the UK , he pledge £ 89 million , a near - doubling of UK overseas development aid for Sudan from the previous year . he deliver a strong message with international partner , which — along with Britain ' s sanction — send a clear signal to the war party that they must stop fight and meaningfully engage in the peace process . we continue to lead at the United Nations Security Council , where we hold the pen on Sudan . on 8 March , the UN Security Council adopt a UK - draft Ramadan ceasefire resolution call for immediate cessation of hostility . on 20 March , we warn that obstruction of humanitarian access by the SAF and RSF be result in the starvation of the sudanese people . over the past year , Britain have provide £ 42 . 6 million in humanitarian aid to support people in Sudan , include £ 12 . 2 million to unicef for nutrition activity and approximately £ 23 million to the Sudan Humanitarian Fund for multi - sector response , include a high proportion of food security intervention . Britain have also help those flee to neighbouring country : last year , we provide £ 7 . 75 million to support new and exist sudanese refugee in South Sudan , and £ 15 million to Chad . we continue to advocate for a return to a civilian - lead Government , and we urge all sudanese stakeholder to engage in an inclusive dialogue that will deliver the peace and stability that the sudanese people deserve . I be grateful for that answer . the sheer horror unleash by the general ' war in Sudan be appal to recount . we be approach 9 million people forcibly displace , with evidence of systematic sexual violence and heinous mass atrocity in Darfur and elsewhere . some 3 . 5 million sudanese child under the age of five be acutely malnourished , and massive famine be now see as almost inevitable . some model project up to a million death . as the UN Secretary - General say , this be " a war … on the sudanese people " , and it must end with an immediate ceasefire . I strongly welcome the sanction from last week and the additional humanitarian funding , but be there go to be a dedicated high - level sudan envoy , and what conversation be minister have with those who continue to fund and enable this war , because great co - ordination have to be the priority ? all state must recognise the truly disastrous consequence if Sudan collapse not just for the sudanese people , but for the entire region . but there be hope , because through all the horror and the destruction , despite the block on humanitarian access , the sudanese people be still stand together in their own community . the resistance committee and the emergency room be sometimes the sole source of relief , as famine spread and medical access run out for the sick and injure , and they be the undaunted spirit and hope of a Sudan free from the general and their catastrophic war . how can we correct the mistake of the past and back sudanese civilian directly ? I thank the hon . Lady very much for the eloquent way in which she have outline the position in Sudan , and she be absolutely right . on the subject of the sudan envoy , let I assure she that there be a very strong and very experienced envoy who cover the horn of Africa , and she focus particularly on Sudan . the hon . Lady eloquently set out the wide effect of Sudan continue on this path in the region , and I agree with she , and she also make clear the benefit that the emergency room , sometimes the only source of relief , be provide . the hon . Lady ask about the mistake that have be make in the past in respect of civilian rule . Britain have call — I think from across all part of this House — for a ceasefire so that the general take their troop back to barrack and the political space have a chance to advance . she will know that Abdalla Hamdok and Taqaddum , the civil society political grouping , have be work together , support by Britain , in a conference in Addis Ababa and elsewhere . we be very committed to try to work with they , so that there be one sensible but broad political offer for Sudan , as and when the chance of a ceasefire and the political track re - engage take place . I call the Chair of the Intelligence and Security Committee . do the Government have any evidence that they can share with this House of the involvement of major foreign power in what be happen in this terrible conflict in Sudan ? my right hon . friend will have see the open - source reporting of various outlet . the point the British Government make on all occasion be that any arm supply into Sudan merely prolong this conflict , and we urge anyone who be think of supply either side or supply either side to think very carefully and to desist . I call the SNP spokesperson . last week , the Raoul Wallenberg Centre for Human Rights release a detailed report on the genocide in Darfur . the report describe atrocity crime — include massacre , sexual violence , the burning of village and the destruction of key infrastructure — all target Darfurians in the region . the author of the report say : " just twenty year after the first genocide … the same perpetrator be commit the same atrocity against the same innocent group , all while evade accountability . " can I ask the Minister whether he have read the report , and be his Department planning to meet the Raoul Wallenberg Centre ? what be the Government ' s own assessment of the risk of genocide in Darfur , and how be they plan to implement their obligation under the genocide convention ? finally , have a joint analysis of conflict and stability be carry out on the situation in Sudan , and if not , why not ? if it have , will he share those finding with the House ? the hon . Gentleman be right to focus on what be happen in Darfur . he will know that we have fund the Centre for Information Resilience , which investigate attack on civilian , and be monitor and keep record wherever possible , so that — at some point , one day — there can be accountability and no impunity . he will also be aware that the position in Darfur — he ask I this question specifically — bear all the hallmark of ethnic cleansing . I first visit Darfur in 2005 , and again in 2006 with the Foreign Secretary . it have be a significant preoccupation of this House , and rightly so . the hon . Gentleman may rest assure that we be do everything we can to support the poor and long - suffer people of Darfur in every way we can , but he will equally understand the physical constraint on be able to do that in the way that we would wish . this have be describe as the world ' s bad humanitarian crisis in decade , and the war that the world choose to ignore . last week , member of the all - party group on Sudan and South Sudan hear from eyewitness and aid worker . we hear of 5 million people on the brink of famine , of aid convoy be hold at gunpoint , of aid be loot , and of 50 aid worker murder . the war , the misery , have go on for a year , and it be get bad . People want to know what the UK , as the penholder at the UN , be do to try to shift the dial and bring peace . on behalf of the all - party group , I ask : what pressure be we put on the United Arab Emirates and Iran to stop they supply arm ? what action be be take to enable the aid convoy to move ? what be be do to end the culture of impunity ? why have those already indict for genocide never be hold to account , and why will the UK not appoint a dedicated envoy , so we can show that we put all our diplomatic weight behind effort to find peace ? we always consider whether the issue of the envoy could be boost , and as I say to my right hon . friend , we think that the position at the moment be provide maximum effect , but we keep such matter under review . I pay particular tribute to she and the APPG for the work they do . she be entirely right in what she say : the UN issue a white note on 15 March , warn of the risk of conflict - induce famine . at least 21 humanitarian aid worker have be murder , 8 . 6 million people be displace , and nearly 18 million people be suffer acute level of food insecurity . that be 40 % of the population , and among they be 730 , 000 child who be face the deadly form of malnutrition . as have be say , almost 25 million people in Sudan be in need of assistance , more than 8 million people have be leave displace , and the life of 230 , 000 child and new mother be at grave risk due to famine . the United Nations Office for the Co - ordination of Humanitarian Affairs report that $ 2 . 7 billion be need to meet the huge humanitarian need in the country . I note from what the Minister say that the UK have double the humanitarian aid that it have commit , but do the Minister agree that that still fall far short of the threshold ? ultimately , it will achieve very little if there be not a ceasefire and an end to the fighting , to allow that aid to be distribute safely . what be the UK Government do , along with our international partner , to ensure that we achieve that immediate and lasting ceasefire soon rather than later ? the hon . Gentleman be right to say that a ceasefire be essential , with troop return to barrack and the opening up of a political track , and that be the central thrust of the British Government ' s policy . he acknowledge that we have manage nearly to double aid to £ 89 million this year . for South Sudan — this , of course , also address many of the problem of Sudan — the figure for this financial year be £ 111 million , which be more than double what it be . that include multilateral and bilateral spend . the fact that Britain have double its contribution give it a locus , which be well use by my noble friend Lord Benyon last week in Paris at the Sudan conference , to make the point about other country also support , give the desperate plight in which so many in Sudan find themselves . I welcome this urgent question and the Government ' s response . we regularly talk about what be go on in Ukraine and the middle east , but we do not focus on the continent of Africa , or Sudan , which be turn into a fail state . there be every prospect of what be go on in Sudan spill out into other part of central Africa and the Sahel . will the Deputy Foreign Secretary update the House on whether we have any presence in Port Sudan ? he talk about peace talk . Egypt have also engage in those , so can he update the House on the prospect of what be happen bring the necessary party together ? in respect of my right hon . friend ' s final point , we be hopeful that the third set of negotiation in Jeddah will take place . the Saudis commit on 15 April to that happen in early May , and we be extremely grateful to the Saudis for that and for invite the UAE , Egypt , the African Union and the Intergovernmental Authority on Development to be part of the negotiation . the former Chairman of the Defence Committee be right about the danger of contagion across the region . we be do everything we can to support Abdalla Hamdok and the Taqaddum , as I mention early . in term of our support within Sudan , the ambassador be currently base in Addis Ababa and be work energetically with all the relevant party to try to make progress . the sudanese community in Liverpool , Riverside , will be decidedly underwhelme by the Minister ' s response to this urgent question . he mention support people move to neighbouring area , but he do not mention the Sudanese who have live , work and contribute for year to the UK bring over family member who be flee the conflict , or extend student visa or protection for sudanese asylum seeker . what will it take for the UK to provide a visa programme for sudanese asylum seeker , similar to the ukrainian scheme ? the two situation be not analogous . if the Labour party want to launch a campaign for extra visa and a special scheme match the one in Ukraine , I look forward to hear detail of it . my wife and I spend a wonderful holiday in Sudan a few year ago , and it be wonderful to see the amazing people there , as well as the rich cultural heritage that Sudan have to offer . there be many world heritage site , such as the pyramid of Mero ë — there be more pyramid in Sudan than Egypt — ancient cathedral , and even Lord Kitchener ' s boat . we hear that fighting have spread to some of the world heritage area . UNESCO be protect two world heritage area , Mero ë and Gebel Barkal , under the heritage emergency fund , to which the UK Government contribute , but what further work and money can the UK put in to protect this world heritage , bolster UNESCO and protect these ancient and important aspect of our civilisation ? my hon . friend be right about the great heritage and deep link , include heritage link , between Britain and Sudan over many year . the truth be that we have to do everything we can , hold the pen on Sudan at the United Nations as we do , to achieve this ceasefire and the reopening of political space . if we can do that , we can focus directly on the point that he make . what discussion have the Minister have with other country to apply pressure to stop the flow of arm into this conflict , and to try to bring it to an end as soon as possible ? these discussion be take place in the margin of the United Nations , and at the conference that take place in Paris on Monday last week . the hon . Gentleman be right to emphasise that we need to ensure that arm do not fuel the conflict , and that be why Britain urge everyone to ensure there be no further arming of either party . the arm embargo go all the way over Darfur , and would be over the whole of Sudan , if the Chinese and Russians be willing to sign up with the rest of we to implement it . I call Jim Shannon . thank you , Mr Speaker . you have catch I off balance ; I be just about to take my diabetic tablet when you call I . I thank the Minister for his answer to the UQ . he will be aware that more than 9 , 000 people have be kill , and nearly 6 million displace , and Christians be face persecution . what support be the Government offering to non - governmental organisation on the ground , such as Church missionary , who seek to help displace Christians not only feed child , but provide they with a semblance of an education and , most importantly , hope of a future life ? the hon . Gentleman will understand the great difficulty in help directly on the ground ; I know the matter be of great interest , both to he and to the Prime Minister ' s envoy for freedom of religion or belief , my hon . friend the Member for Congleton ( Fiona Bruce ) . we must continue to find every possible way of support the important group that he mention . I draw the Minister ' s attention to a report on the BBC website , in case he have not read it , by Zeinab Mohammed Salih , a sudanese journalist . she recall : " People have tell I of ethnically target killing and sexual violence . they remain traumatised , month afterwards . " the Minister may be aware that month before the war break out , sexual violence and gender - base violence be be use against woman . in June 2023 , it be estimate that there be more than 60 , 000 survivor of conflict - relate sexual violence in Sudan , and we continue to see report of sexual violence . what step be the Government take to address that really important issue , and to prevent further case of violence , and of rape be use as a war weapon ? I be afraid that the hon . Lady be entirely right . we have read these report and many other with horror . that be one of the reason why we be support the Centre for Information Resilience , so that we can do everything we can to deter there be any question of impunity , but it be extraordinarily difficult . as she rightly say , what be happen in Darfur bear all the hallmark of ethnic cleansing . the attention pay to the conflict in Sudan do not reflect the enormity of the suffering there , with million displace and face famine , violence and insecurity . as chair of the all - party parliamentary group for Africa , I thank my hon . friend the Member for West Ham ( Ms Brown ) for secure the urgent question . the Minister speak about the limited arm embargo , such as it be . be he aware that it be be break on a grand scale , and that there be a pervasive flow of arm into Sudan ? what be he do to monitor that , and to try to reduce that flow of arm , which be fuel the conflict ? on the hon . Lady ' s second point , I have set out the clear message from the British Government about the supply of arm , . on her first point , she be right that conflict elsewhere in the world — particularly in Ukraine and Gaza — have to some extent take attention away from Sudan , and indeed Ethiopia , on which , in Geneva last Tuesday , Britain be lead the effort to raise money to head off a famine . part of the benefit of the urgent question be that we can make clear the threat , what be happen in Sudan , and what Britain be do to try to assist . sudanese student at Heriot - Watt University in my constituency be desperately worried about their family member in Sudan when I meet they last year at the request of the university chaplain . many of their family member need help flee to neighbouring country , and other have seek family reunification with british citizen already live here . what be the Government do to help british citizen to save the life of their relative in Sudan ? the hon . and learn Lady will know the step that Britain take a year ago to help those who be seek to leave , but since then the vast amount of migration have be across the border into Chad and South Sudan , and indeed into Ethiopia . Britain have contribute £ 15 million to help those whom I see near Adr é , on the border between Sudan and Chad , at the end of last month . in respect of South Sudan , where there be a significant and increase programme of humanitarian support , we have directly contribute nearly £ 8 million . I recently meet the community president and secretary general of the Sudanese Community Association of Greater Manchester . we discuss the horrific civil war in Sudan and the desperate need to bring about a peaceful and sustainable end to the conflict . the war may be take place in Sudan , but it have huge implication for sudanese community in Britain , like the one in Manchester . what support be the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office provide sudanese community in Britain , who be try to support their love one who be flee from violence to reach a place of safety ? there be very little we can do until those people reach a place of safety . as I say , many have flee across the border into Chad and South Sudan . we be actively help those people in the way that I describe . Sudan be experience the bad displacement crisis in the world . it be not so much a civil war but a war on civilian , who be lose their home , livelihood and live on a scale that be hard to comprehend . the sudanese people feel forgotten , so it be vital that both aid and political focus be forthcoming . will the Minister work with his Home Office colleague to support sudanese people in the asylum system , who be beside themselves with worry about family member ? will he well facilitate reunion for those UK citizen who have family among the most affected and who be able to leave ? we will do everything we can to assist . the hon . Lady will understand the constraint we work within , but I will note what she say . if she have any specific case that she wish to raise , I hope she will do so . give the level of death , despair and starvation , we need an immediate ceasefire in Sudan . cross - border and cross - line humanitarian aid access be be block and impair by both side , even though they be , in effect , starve their own people to death . what step be the Government take to get the Adr é crossing open , and to expose the impact of rsf extortion on humanitarian aid convoy ? I be in Adr é when I visit the border between Chad and Sudan . I see the weight of human misery cross that border — 88 % of those crossing be woman and child , which show that the man have either be murder or go into hiding . the hon . Gentleman be quite right about the importance of Adr é . he be right about the two general effectively wage war on their own people — starve their own people , as he say . that be why everyone be urge the two general to desist , get their troop back to barracks and give a chance for a political track to reconvene and re - emerge . what assurance can the Minister give the sudanese community in Newport — who , as other have say , feel that the conflict and its catastrophic consequence have go largely unseen — that the Government be do all they can to get aid in through the Adr é crossing , and be try as hard as they can to build consensus among neighbouring and regional state that the war must end ? I hope that today ' s urgent question will be of some comfort in respect of what the Government be seek to do and the role we play at the United Nations — where we be the penholder — and in the Troika , with Norway and the United States , to try to bring this awful crisis to a conclusion . the information that we have receive via al - Jazeera and other about the situation in Sudan be truly horrendous : 8 . 2 million people have leave their home , 17 . 7 million be experience food shortage , and cholera , measle and other disease be rife . unless there be a rapid ceasefire , the planting season simply will not begin , and there will be even great and deep hunger , not just in Sudan but in neighbouring country . do the Minister have any realistic hope that the combination of the UN and the African Union — and anyone else who can intervene — will bring about a ceasefire to allow , at least , people to return to their home and to be able to feed themselves ? the former Leader of the Opposition make the case very clearly . the figure he set out show the scale of the disaster that have engulf Sudan . when I be on the border between Chad and Sudan near Adr é , I see for myself the work that be be do by organisation such as the World Food Programme , which Britain strongly support , but also the International Rescue Committee and M é decin Sans Fronti è re . the work be go on wherever it can , but it be extremely difficult because of the circumstance he set out . what assessment have be make of the potential level of food insecurity and the level of response need if the conflict go on through the summer and disrupt the next planting season ? the hon . Lady be entirely right . the World Food Programme tell I , when I be in Chad , that it effectively have supply of food only until the end of May . that be one of the reason why Britain have increase so substantially its bilateral aid , and why my noble Friend Lord Benyon go to the Paris meeting on Monday last week to make sure that other , too , put their money where their mouth be and support the desperate situation she describe . this morning I have the pleasure to meet some brilliant organisation work on behalf of people in Sudan who be desperate to be reunite with family here in the UK . they want answer to two question . first , give the circumstance people be have to live in , why be it take over a year for many application to be decide ? secondly , why do the Government demand that these people make dangerous and illegal cross - border journey before they will even consider their application , because they have to enrol biometric information ? that seem completely counterintuitive . will the right hon . Gentleman give the Home Office a polite kick up the backside and urge a change in approach ? if the hon . Gentleman would like to give I detail of any specific case , I will of course make sure they be look into . what step be the Government able to take to stem the flow of resource — not only weapon , but fuel — to the RSF across the border from Libya ? be the Government monitor the potential for onwards flow to Sudan as a result of continue russian supply of arm within Libya ? we urge all party not to supply weapon to the belligerent in Sudan . it will merely extend and continue the appalling situation that exist there . that be why Britain be so clear that we should seek to starve this conflict of any additional weaponry . the opposition welcome the Government ' s atrocity monitoring and prevention work in Sudan , even though it be belate . it be important to join up that work with our diplomatic effort in support of talk in Jeddah next month that be inclusive and effective . be there a strategy to use target pressure to help isolate those responsible for atrocity and bring they to justice , and to bring both war party to the table ? in respect of target pressure , the hon . Lady will have see the recent announcement about sanction against both the RSF and the SAF , and the early step that be take . she be right to focus on Jeddah 3 , which look to be the good bet at the moment for progress . Britain be give very strong support to that process . on Monday , the Government announce three sanction against business supply the SAF and the RSF . what assessment have the Deputy Foreign Secretary make of how effective they will be in the great scheme of all the arm that be be supply to those two war faction ? the hon . Lady be right to focus on the sanction . although we do not talk about future plan on sanction across the Floor of the House , the way these thing work be that when we see that sanction be not work as well as we have hope , we will always seek to reinforce they . that be the nature of impose sanction , as we have see in other area . we will do everything we can , through the sanction regime , to advance the objective that she and I share . the Minister refer to the problem of food security . it do seem very likely that the planting season will be disrupt again this year . what be the implication for food security in Sudan and South Sudan this autumn and into next year ? have a target be set for the amount of international aid to be gather to deal with that loom crisis ? the target that be require be the subject of continuous discussion , particularly with the World Food Programme and at the United Nations , and they help to inform the discussion that take place in Paris last week . however , the right hon . Gentleman be right about the danger of the harvest fail . the lean season approach in other part of Africa too , include Ethiopia . this be the nature of climate change and sometimes factor like El Ni ñ o , and it be extremely worrying . the effect of the harvest failing and the onset of the lean season be very serious in term of nutrition and food dependency . I thank the Minister for his previous engagement regard a number of my constituent whose family member have be stick , and affect by the ongoing conflict in Sudan . may I ask what conversation he have have with his counterpart in Egypt , who , as far as I understand , be still suspend the issue of visa to sudanese national who be hold UK travel document , with the result that people be stick in Egypt when they could well be here with their family right now if that be not be hold up by the egyptian authority ? we have an extremely effective embassy team in Cairo and elsewhere in Egypt , with very close relation across the top of the egyptian Government and in all part of it . if the hon . Lady wish to raise any specific case with I again , I hope that she will do so , and I will certainly take they up for she . point of order on a point of order , Mr Speaker . last week , on 15 April , I say : " all trans child and young people deserve access to high - quality and timely healthcare and support . around 100 study have not be include in the Cass report , and we need to know why . " — [ Official Report , 15 April 2024 ; Vol . 748 , c . 65 . ] I be quote from Stonewall ' s briefing . there be some fallout from that , so I have spend the weekend in conversation with Stonewall and Dr Cass . it seem that by quote from the briefing , I may have inadvertently mislead the House . as you know , Mr Speaker , I have be throw out of Parliament for call the then Prime Minister a liar , so it mean a lot to I to be able to come back and correct the record , and practise what I preach . I spend the weekend speak to Dr Cass , and I be very grateful for her time . she have make it clear — not just to I , but to the tran and LGBT + community in a number of valuable clarification on the radio and in other medium — that all report be include and that research of both high and moderate quality be consider as part of the evidence review . Dr Cass have also say that her report be be misrepresent and hijacked — but not by I , Mr Speaker ; let I make that clear . my question to the Secretary of State for Health be about additional funding for child ' s mental health service . the report be be hijack by anti - trans group , and that be why it be important that we can be as factual as possible about the research . I be also concerned about the advice that Dr Cass be give about her safety , and be shock that some people imply that I be partly responsible for — Order . I be really bother about this — it be mean to be just a quick correction , rather than open up a debate . I be grateful to the hon . Lady for be honest and correct the record ; she have absolutely do that , and have make it very clear that she be correct it . other member wish to speak , so I have to move on . we can not open up a debate . the Clerk be get very worried . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . last week , during question to the Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport , my hon . friend the Members for Bristol West ( Thangam Debbonaire ) and for Slough ( Mr Dhesi ) raise the issue of ticket touting . in response , the Minister for Media , Tourism and Creative Industries , the hon . member for Hornchurch and Upminster ( Julia Lopez ) make two claim that I believe be inaccurate . first , the Minister claim that legislation in the Consumer Rights Act 2015 and the Digital Economy Act 2017 deal with some of the issue relate to bot in the secondary market . however , there do not seem to have be a single conviction specifically for bot use , and there be a great deal of evidence that bot be still be use . secondly , the Minister claim that measure to cap resale price in Ireland have increase " fraudulent activity " . in fact , there be no evidence whatever that such activity have increase . Fraud be actually report to be down 27 % in Ireland in the last quarter of 2023 , and the Irish Government ' s post - enactment report on their Sale of Tickets ( Cultural , Entertainment , Recreational and Sporting Events ) Act 2021 conclude : " this be a positive endorsement of the operation of the Act and mean that the objective of the Act be be meet whereby genuine fan can attend event at affordable price . " I seek your advice , Mr Speaker , on how we might encourage the Minister to correct the record . I thank the hon . member for her point of order , and for notice of it . it be for minister to correct the record if they wish to . in the meantime , she have certainly put her point on the record for everyone to see . Bill present Thames Water ( Special Administration ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Sarah Olney present a Bill to require the Secretary of State to apply for an order for special administration in relation to Thames Water ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time Friday 21 June and to be print ( Bill 204 ) . safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Bill consideration of Lords message [ relevant document : Second Report of the Joint Committee on Human Rights , Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Bill , HC 435 , and the Government response , HC 647 . ] I can confirm that nothing in the Lords message engage Commons financial privilege . clause 1 - introduction I beg to move , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 3 g . with this it will be convenient to discuss Lords amendment 10f , and Government motion to disagree . it appear that I be indeed optimistic last week when I foresaw the end of ping - pong and look forward to the time when we be not debate this particular piece of legislation . it be disappointing that we be back here again . of course the other place should undertake its role as a revise Chamber , and of course it be entitle to ask the Government to think again , but we do think again , with the House now vote for the third time as part of ping - pong and strongly endorse this Bill . we need to bring the process to a conclusion . the Labour party have vote against our measure to tackle illegal migration 134 time . one hundred and thirty - four time it have tell the british people that it oppose our tough immigration legislation . enough be enough . the Opposition have delay this Bill for too long , and we must get on with it . I be sure that , like I , the Minister will have read the Law Society of England and Wales ' s briefing on these amendment . have he see the polling it have report , which show that the majority of voter think the Government should either accept some amendment to the Rwanda policy or scrap it altogether ? only a quarter of the public think the Government should try to get the Bill through in its current form , and all the Lords amendment be support by the majority of the public . have he see that polling , and will he stop try to turn this matter into a political football and address the gravaman of the amendment ? I certainly will . I be very grateful indeed to the hon . and learn Lady , because she get to the point of the amendment . she be absolutely right to say that we should address they in detail , and I will do just that . I say this with all humility and with respect for the Minister , who I know be an honourable person : do he agree that there be a simple way out of this deadlock ? it be to accept those who can demonstrate that they assist the british force in Afghanistan . do the Minister far agree that this back and forth be an example not of democratic exercise , but of democratic embarrassment ? a way forward must be find before we bring this place and our procedure into disrepute . I be very grateful indeed to the hon . Gentleman . as always , he engage with the substance of the matter . he and the right hon . member for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) have raise this point . I will turn to that specific amendment , and I hope to persuade he , through my word , that step have be take and reassurance have be make . I hope to reassure he personally that he will be able to support the Government in the Aye Lobby later today . I turn to the Lords amendment table by the noble Lord Hope of Craighead . I want to reiterate some salient point . first , as the House know , we will only ratify the treaty once we agree with Rwanda that all necessary implementation be in place for both country to comply with the obligation under the treaty . secondly , the implementation of these provision will be keep under review by the independent monitoring committee . thirdly , clause 9 make it clear that the Bill ' s provision come into force when the treaty enter into force . I know that there be a problem in detain illegal migrant at the moment under habeas corpus , but when the Bill come into force , will it be the legal position that we can then detain people before offshore they , because that be the only real deterrent ? my right hon . friend might have hear a few word from the Prime Minister in that regard this morning , and that be exactly right . specifically in relation to the amendment , however , I respectfully disagree with the noble Lord Hope . there be no obligation , whether in legislation or in the treaty , to send anyone to Rwanda , as my noble Friend Lord Sharpe have say . article 4 of the treaty set out clearly that it be for the United Kingdom to " determine the timing of a request for relocation of individual under this Agreement and the number of request for relocation to be make " . before my right hon . and learn Friend move away from the treaty , could he help with some clarity on the relationship , as the Government see it , between the Rwanda treaty and this Bill ? specifically , be an assessment of Rwanda ' s safety for the purpose of this Bill the same thing as compliance with the Rwanda treaty on the part of the state of Rwanda ? if not , what be the difference ? do the concept of safety extend beyond compliance with the treaty , or be it solely limited to the question of compliance with the treaty ? as ever , I be grateful to my right hon . and learn Friend for his engagement , both inside and outside the Chamber . he have be a regular attender at these ping - pong session . the treaty be the operate legal instrument between the two international body , the United Kingdom and Rwanda . that be the status of that treaty . this Bill bring it into effect in law in this country . he know about deal with the system of dualism . in fact , he have appear in the Supreme Court argue these very point , so he know in detail the difference between a treaty and an Act of Parliament . as I set out , there be no obligation within the treaty . it be plainly write in article 4 ( 1 ) that the " United Kingdom shall not be oblige to make any request for relocation under this Agreement . " that mean that the Government would not be oblige to relocate individual under the term of the treaty if , for example , there have be unexpected change of circumstance . I know that that be something my right hon . and learn Friend have be concern about . would my right hon . and learn Friend also care to note that Lord Hoffman , in the case of r v . lyon — in relation to a European Court of Human Rights case — be unequivocal when he say that a treaty be not the same as a statute , and that it be the statute that prevail ? when a statute be make and the word be clear and unambiguous , it follow that the court will obey what the Act set out , which be exactly the position in this case . my hon . friend have also be a consistent member of these ping - pong session and he have consistently cite paragraph 144 of the Supreme Court judgment . he know that I agree with he on this point , and that I firmly believe that this legislation , as draft , be clear and unambiguous . I hope that that reassure he . turn back to my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Kenilworth and Southam ( Sir Jeremy Wright ) , there be procedure already in place under the term of the treaty to monitor the safety of Rwanda for those who be relocate there . I can reassure he and the House that we have already establish the right mechanism so that , should the situation ever arise , the Government will respond as necessary . this would include a range of option to respond , include , as he know , primary legislation if require . implementation continue and I can now confirm that last Friday the Rwandan Parliament pass its domestic legislation to implement its new asylum system . the partnership be one important component of a much broad bilateral relationship , as my right hon . friend the Member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) have recently remind we . this be a migration and economic development partnership , and I would like to put on record my thank to all official , include those in the Government of Rwanda , for their hard work in implement the treaty and deliver this crucial partnership . I note what the Minister say about last Friday but , if Rwanda be truly safe , why be Rwandans exclude from be return under this legislation ? can he give we the reason why he and the Prime Minister refuse to accept the need to prove the safety of Rwanda as a requirement ? the proof of the safety be in the bind international treaty between two international partner , namely the United Kingdom and the Government of Rwanda . the treaty address the concern set out by the Supreme Court , namely the concern in and around refoulement , and I invite this House to accept that reassurance . that be why I say the amendment be unnecessary . the obvious reason why Rwandans be not cover by the Bill be because return a Rwandan to Rwanda would take they to their home country , not a third country . I be grateful to my hon . friend , who have be closely follow these proceeding not just throughout ping - pong but throughout his time in this role . he know deeply the interplay and the interrelationship between the two country . will the Minister give way ? I will make some progress , as I have give way too much . I have take criticism for the number of time I give way . on Lords amendment 10F , as my noble Friend Lord Sharpe and I have say previously , this Government greatly value the contribution of those who have support we and our armed force overseas , which be why there be legal route for they to come to the United Kingdom . there be already exist legislation , include but not limit to the Illegal Migration Act 2023 , under which the Secretary of State have a range of power to consider case and specific category of person . I have already make a clear commitment on behalf of his Majesty ' s Government that we will consider how removal would apply under exist immigration legislation , which mean that , once the review of afghan relocation and assistance policy decision for those with credible link to afghan specialist unit be conclude , the Government will not remove to Rwanda those who receive a positive eligibility decision as a result of the review , where they be already in the United Kingdom as of today . this be an important point , and it be a point that I emphasise to the House today . the Minister may have read about my constituent in the Guardian today : a man who be originally an Afghan , have british citizenship and serve with our armed force for 15 year . he and his family be call forward to the Baron hotel but could not get there because of an explosion , and they have be in hell ever since . his young child and wife be unable to join he here in the UK . he be not eligible for ARAP because he be a british citizen . the Government have write to I suggest that his child might apply to ARAP , but I believe that under - 10 will probably not qualify . the afghan citizen resettlement scheme be in tatter and will not accept they , as the Government be now try to say that they be invite , rather than instruct , to go to the Baron hotel . if the Minister take five minute to read the story of my constituent , who give so much of his life to support our force in Afghanistan , he would understand why it be not sustainable for he to stand at the Dispatch Box and say that there be safe , legal route for those who be eminently eligible , and why amendment 10f matter . this amendment be unnecessary . as I have tell the hon . Lady and try to explain to the House , there be already exist legislation , include but not limit to the Illegal Migration Act . I have confirm that the Government will not remove to Rwanda those who receive a positive eligibility decision as a result of the review . this Government recognise the commitment and responsibility that come with combat veteran , whether our own or those who have show courage in serve alongside we . we will not let they down . criminal gang be determine who come to the United Kingdom , as vulnerable people be lure into risk their life in unseaworthy boat . billion of pound of taxpayer ' money be be spend on illegal migration , and our resource and service be reach their limit . we must put an end to it . we must pass this legislation and stop the boat . I urge the House once again to send an unambiguous message to the other place that the time have come for the Labour Lords to respect the view of this House and to let this Bill now pass . I call the shadow Minister there be not a huge amount more to be say about this sham , this con of a Bill , that have not already be say . the plan be as unworkable as it be unaffordable . that be why Labour would instead repurpose the money that be be squander and set aside for the scheme into a cross - border police unit and security partnership , which would go after the criminal gang upstream and restore order to our border . labour would create a new return and enforcement unit to remove people from the country who have no right to be here , give that we have see the return of fail asylum seeker collapse by 44 % under the Conservatives and the removal of foreign criminal decrease by 27 % . our plan will end the Tory boat chaos , fix our broken asylum system and restore our border security . the Government ' s plan be , as the former Immigration Minister describe it and as a civil servant insider have admit , to get a few symbolic flight off the ground ahead of a general election , regardless of the wide impact . it really be tokenism and posturing of the bad sort . give that a permanent secretary have say that there be no evidence the plan will work as a deterrent , as it will account for just 1 % of those cross the channel , do my hon . agree that it be just a gimmick ? my hon . friend be right : the test of such a policy be whether it will work as a deterrent . when we be deal with people who have risk life and limb to cross continent , they be not go to be put off by a 1 % chance of be send to Rwanda . the policy fail on its own term , and the permanent secretary be absolutely right to put that red flag on it two year ago . it be extraordinary that we be where we be today . my hon . friend be make an excellent speech . do he agree that the tokenism of the bad sort that he speak about be carry on by the Prime Minister ' s announcement that 25 courtroom and 150 judge will be available to deal with legal challenge from asylum seeker ? give that our court be struggle with backlog , partly due to not have enough barrister and court , do he agree that it would be interesting to know how the Government would achieve that ? my hon . friend be absolutely right about that , although I have forget chapter 562 in this never - end story . my recollection be that the Prime Minister be then slap down by the judiciary , who say , " we have a huge backlog to get through and this be not a priority . " we should thank my hon . friend for remind the House of yet another disastrous chapter in this story . in the unlikely event that we have a Labour Government , would the shadow Minister be happy if future opposition party , which necessarily and usually dominate the House of Lords , frustrate they ? will he advise his friend up there to respect the will of the elect House ? I will advise the other place to do what it be do , as a revise Chamber : stand up for its constitutional obligation to look at every piece of legislation that we send to it from this place and take the measure that it feel strongly about . this set of amendment in no way prevent this policy from be enact or flight from take off ; what we be see be simply those member in the other place do their constitutional duty . the plan be not only completely unworkable , but shockingly unaffordable . it be likely to cost an astonishing £ 2 million per deportee . to add insult to injury , it put the ten of thousand of asylum seeker who be deem inadmissible and yet can not be send to Rwanda , because of the lack of capacity there , into limbo , in expensive hotel , stick in a perma - backlog at a staggering cost to the taxpayer . this be a dreadful policy and it be shameful politic . when the Bill be first introduce , the Prime Minister describe it as " emergency legislation " , yet the Government ' s management of the parliamentary timetable would suggest that the opposite be the case . minister have ample opportunity to schedule debate and vote on 25 and 26 March , before the Easter recess , but they choose not to do so . indeed , there be plenty of scope to accelerate the process last week . People could be forgive for conclude that the truth of the matter be that minister have be deliberately string this out for two reason : first , because they think they could make some grubby political capital from the delay ; and , secondly , because they have be scramble to organise a flight and all the other logistic that be not in place . the Prime Minister , in his somewhat whinging and buck - pass press conference this morning , admit that the first flight to Rwanda will not take off until — check note — July . today be 22 April . we be initially tell that this be " emergency legislation " , yet we be now be tell that there will be a 10 to 12 - week delay in get the first flight off the ground . I do not know what your definition of an emergency be , Madam Deputy Speaker , but a 10 to 12 - week response time seem a bit of a stretch . give that none of the amendment to the Bill could be see as wreck amendment by any stretch of the imagination , it be difficult to see why those on the Government Benches could not just accept the amendment and get on with it . the fundamental point be that not one of the amendment that have be come to we from the other place would prevent plane from get into the air . turn first to the amendment in the name of the noble Lord Hope , this amendment simply reflect what the Government have already say : that court judgment be take at a moment in time and that a country may well be safe at a give point , but not at another . if the Bill pass unamended , this House will , in essence , be assert that Rwanda will be a safe country for ever more . surely the indisputable lesson of recent time be that we live in a dangerous and turbulent world , where authoritarian be on the march and the rule - base order be under threat . who know what might happen in Rwanda in the future , or in any other country for that matter ? the Minister make the point that we have enter into a treaty and be tell that Rwanda be safe . do my hon . friend agree that set a very serious and dangerous precedent for the future , because that may not always be the case ? how will we be able to work our way out of any unsafe country where we have such a treaty in place ? I agree with my hon . friend . one reason we be see such a strong pushback from the other place be precisely that its member be deeply uncomfortable with try to make something true that be not true . the Supreme Court rule unanimously that Rwanda be not a safe country , yet we be be ask to legislate to say that it be . we can legislate to say that the sky be green and the grass be blue , but that do not make it so , and that be why we have such an important point of principle in the Bill . on that point , will my hon . friend give way ? order . before the hon . Lady make another intervention , I must draw the House ' s attention to the fact that we have only until 5 . 15 pm to debate this matter . eight back Benchers wish to speak and , at the moment , their speech will be limit to three minute , so it might not be entirely fair for the hon . Lady to keep make intervention . I withdraw my intervention . I thank the hon . Lady for her courtesy . the amendment in the name of the noble Lord Hope simply require the Home Secretary to lay a statement before Parliament confirm that the Rwanda treaty have be implement and that the country be safe . prior to issue his statement , the Home Secretary would presumably take account of advice provide by the Government ' s hand - pick monitoring committee , as specify in the treaty . Lord Hope ' s amendment also allow the Home Secretary to lay a statement make clear that Rwanda be no long safe , should the situation on the ground in Rwanda change . this " trust but verify " approach be embed in countless piece of legislation that have make their way on to the statute book over the century . it be a perfectly fair , measured , reasonable and non - controversial proposal , and it be simply bizarre and incomprehensible that the Government be refuse to accept it . let I turn now to the noble Lord Browne ' s amendment . frankly , I just do not know where to start with this one , Madam Deputy Speaker . it beggar belief that the Government be still insist on be able to deport to Rwanda Afghans who have bravely fight alongside british force against the Taliban . it really be shameful that we be still debate what should be a give . we owe a debt of gratitude to the Afghans who stand shoulder to shoulder with our troop , yet this Government be seek to trash our reputation as a country that honour its debt . what a disgrace . minister should hang their head in shame . over the course of the past few week , Ministers have deploy a variety of spurious and mealy - mouthed argument to defend their position , but the one that they have most frequently use be that there be already safe and legal route in place in the shape of the ARAP and the afghan citizen resettlement scheme , but that be simply not the case . operation Warm Welcome become operation cold shoulder when the Prime Minister torpedo both scheme and leave these Afghans strand — shocking but true . court document show that , in November 2022 , the Prime Minister issue instruction to halt flight from neighbour Pakistan for an entire year for Afghans who have already be grant resettlement right in the UK , and only restart they when the Pakistani Government threaten to send these heroic individual back across the border to meet their fate at the hand of the Taliban . let the content of those court document sink in : the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom explicitly instruct the Ministry of Defence and the Home Office to stop assist Afghans who have put their life on the line for our country . what a disgrace . what a betrayal of british value . what a hammer blow to our moral standing in the world , but the noble Lord Browne ' s amendment be drive not only by a basic moral imperative , but by our national interest and military logic for the simple and obvious reason that the ability of our armed force to recruit local ally to support we in the future will be severely constrain if this Bill pass unamended . it should therefore not come as a surprise to anyone that our armed force be outraged and repel by the Government ' s refusal to accept Lord Browne ' s amendment . indeed , just last weekend , 13 senior military figure sign a letter to the Sunday Telegraph state robustly that " any brave man and woman who have fight alongside our armed force or serve the UK Government overseas " must be exempt from removal to Rwanda . I urge member across the House to join I in support the two amendment that be in front of we today . this whole process have be a farce , but if we just pass these amendment we can at least send the message that we be not a country that choose to deport its military ally to a country on the other side of the world and that we be a country that care about whether we be send some of the most vulnerable people on the planet to a place that be safe for they . at the very least , we owe that basic level of respect and decency to ourselves as a nation and to the people whom this policy will affect . unfortunately , respect and decency for anyone , whether in relation to our nation , to asylum seeker or to the british taxpayer , be not something that this Prime Minister and his Government hold in any regard whatever . that be why their time be up . they be not fit to govern . I fear that tonight , yet again , they will demonstrate that point in spade . as I have just intimate , there will be an immediate time limit on Back - Bench speech of three minute . in view of the time , I wish to focus what I say on the second part of amendment 3 g ( 8 ) . it be clear that Lord Hope have draw attention to a flaw in the Bill ' s logic . we all understand that it be about parliamentary sovereignty , but if declare Rwanda safe in the first instance be a matter for Parliament then why be determine whether it remain safe not also a matter for Parliament ? yet the Bill cover only the first determination of safety and provide no mechanism for Parliament to change its mind if circumstance change , save for primary legislation , which we need Government to introduce . my quarrel with the noble Lord Hope ' s amendment have be that , whereas the theme of this Bill be parliamentary authority , the early form of his amendment give effective authority on the safety of Rwanda to the monitoring committee , because its conclusion on treaty compliance will be determinative of the question of safety . the later version of Lord Hope ' s amendment , however , would transfer authority to Ministers to determine — presumably on the advice of the monitor committee — that Rwanda be no long safe , and to make a statement to that effect . I do not think that be perfect either . I still think that for the Bill to have inherent logical consistency , it should be for Parliament to decide whether Rwanda remain safe in change circumstance — not the monitor committee or a Minister — but how much latitude Parliament would have in decide whether Rwanda remain safe in change circumstance rather depend on the point I raise in an intervention on the Minister . if adherence to the treaty be evidence contribute to an assessment of whether Rwanda remain safe but be not wholly determinative of the question of safety , it remain possible , if unlikely , that Parliament would consider non - compliance but none the less decide that Rwanda remain safe for the purpose of the Bill . if the only consideration on safety be the question of compliance with the treaty , Rwanda can not remain safe if it be in breach of the treaty . we need to be clear on which of the two it be , but either way — determinative or not — if Parliament be to be the sovereign decision maker , it must know of non - adherence to the treaty , and directly or indirectly the monitoring committee be the body that can tell we . it seem to I that we must look at Lords amendment 3 g in the light of this late stage in proceeding . we can not keep bat the Bill backwards and forwards across the building . as I say , I do not think that the amendment be the good way to solve the problem that Parliament have no mechanism available to it to change its mind if the fact change , but with all due respect to the Minister , whom I hold in high regard , the Government have not come up with a well alternative . he leave I little place to go other than to support the amendment , if he can not propose a well way of resolve this deficiency . the Minister open by say that he have look forward last week to not debate the Bill . I , too , wish that we do not have to debate it ; indeed , I wish that it have never be bring to this House in the first place . I wish that it have never see the light of day . if he never want to debate it again , he could of course have accept the Lords amendment last week , instead of string this out for even long . the Lords have table perfectly legitimate amendment , but Government Members be seek to get around the tedium of voting on amendment to render vulnerable people overseas . a text message be circulate on x in the name of the Government Chief Whip , say : " dear colleague , with a potentially long and historic night ahead , on behalf of the Prime Minister I would like to invite you to drink this evening from 21 . 30 . these will take place in the Prime Minister ' s office in the House of Commons . I look forward to see you there . " how absolutely heartless and despicable that Government Members will be quaff drink while think about send people to Rwanda . how utterly without any kind of moral background . should the Lords send back further amendment tonight and carry out the unusual procedure of double insistence , I will support they very much in that endeavour . we should use any mechanism that we can in this place to stop the Bill . I congratulate my hon . friend on use every procedure available to she to state the SNP ' s opposition to the Bill , not least by move amendment in the Reasons Committee last week . we in the SNP will take every single opportunity to express our opposition to this outrageous plan . I thank my hon . friend for his intervention , and note on the record that Labour do not vote on any of the reason that I seek to amend in the Reasons Committee . I have yet to hear any explanation for why Labour Members would not use any mechanism available to they to oppose the Bill . we have yet another press conference this afternoon . the Prime Minister do not come to this House to talk about his gurning and his greeting that those mean old Lords would not let he have his way . I point out that the Conservatives have over 100 more Lords than Labour . perhaps the lack of enthusiasm from their own Lords be reflective of the fact that many of they do not even show up to vote last week . the policy be not in the conservative party manifesto . the Government have no mandate for the Rwanda plan whatsoever . indeed , what manifesto would they put in front of people that would say , " we ' re go to set out to breach our international commitment and engage in state - sponsor people traffic ? " what manifesto would that be ? let I mention briefly some of the thing that the Prime Minister mention in his statement . he suddenly conjure up a whole load of judge to determine these case , when they could perhaps well serve by look at the appeal backlog that his incompetent bulk processing of asylum claim have create . he mention charter flight be book , but many commercial company , include the rwandan state carrier , have refuse to be involve in the charter flight at all , so which company have be engage to do that and at what cost ? we still do not know . the Prime Minister say : " the first flight will leave in 10 to 12 week . " will that be before or after we reach summer recess — we already know how far the timescale on this have slip for the Government — and what scrutiny will occur should they take off during recess ? if the government do manage to send anybody to Rwanda , where will they put they ? we know that the Rwandans have sell off the housing that they set up to place people in . will they be pile they up in tent ? I would not put it past this government , but that would be useful to know . we fully support the Lords amendment , which do their very good to mitigate an absolutely dreadful piece of legislation . I can not see what the Government ' s objection be to Lords amendment 3 g . they be all about take back control , but they want absolutely no parliamentary scrutiny of whether Rwanda remain a safe country . the right hon . and learn Member for Kenilworth and Southam ( Sir Jeremy Wright ) rightly point out that we in this place have no mean of declare Rwanda unsafe , so it be safe in perpetuity — forever and ever . we can not declare it unsafe should something happen , and that be just not logical . I note also that the Irish High Court rule last month that , in the light of these plan , the UK be not a safe country to send asylum seeker to . I fully support Lords amendment 10f relate to Afghans . I have mention many time before my support for the Afghans who serve and support UK objective in Afghanistan and how woeful the Government ' s response to their need have be . do my hon . friend agree that the £ 11 , 000 it cost per person to deport to Rwanda could be use right now to rescue my constituent and his wife , who get out of Afghanistan and into Pakistan and be now stick there wait for the UK Government to rescue they ? I wholeheartedly agree . I know of many case of people who have be sorely let down by the Government . we note that the figure that the Government bring out this morning show that there have be an increase in small boat arrival in the past three month compare with last year . the plan be hardly any kind of deterrent if people be still come over in small boat in their drove . among they be 1 , 216 Afghans — an increase on the 1 , 098 who come in the same period last year . if the Minister think that the afghan scheme be such a roar success , why be so many Afghans be force on to small boat just to get to safety ? many of they will have family in this country , many will have be unable to avail themselves of the afghan scheme that he so talk up , and many will not have be able to use family reunion , which be an exist safe and legal route . give the time , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will not go into detail on the afghan case that I wish to mention . however , I will say this to the government : this legislation be utterly despicable . it be state - sponsor people traffic , it be against our obligation in international law , and Scotland want no part of it . we will oppose it every step of the way . may I start by agree with what the Opposition spokesman , the hon . member for Aberavon ( Stephen Kinnock ) , say about there be nothing new to say ? the trouble be that he then spend 14 minute say nothing new . he say that the amendment do nothing to stop flight get off the ground , but the fact that we be still have to debate amendment be prevent the legislation from go through , which would allow the scheme — literally — to get off the ground . now it be time to get the Rwanda legislation do . on the remain amendment , many people have have day , week and month to make their point . the Government have give undertaking , and we have hear further undertaking about the treatment of afghan refugee today . the Bill do not oblige the Government to return anybody from Afghanistan ; there be explicit scheme to protect they . when it come to declare Rwanda a safe country , the only reason why the legislation state as such be that a court declare it not to be , base on limited and snapshot evidence . the Government have a white list of country that be deem not to be safe — the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office issue guidance about where it be safe to travel — but what constitute " safe " in the eye of those court ? be Spain safe to a Catalonian dissident who be in exile because they have take issue with the spanish Government ? be it safe to go back to France ? some of the refugee I have meet in the Napier barracks claim that they be beat by french police , and that it be not safe for they to go back to that country . indeed , in the eye of some court judgment , be London safe for a person who be " openly jewish " ? plenty of safeguard be give in this Bill : it will bring people back to the UK if Rwanda be deem not to be safe or appropriate . plenty of international legal scrutiny have now be add into the Bill . the issue of refoulement , which be the Supreme Court ' s major complaint , have be deal with , and legal assessment be available for those send to Rwanda . I will say it again : when the Home Affairs Select Committee go to Calais last year , we be tell by all those who be in charge of the police system on the beach that when the Government announce the Rwanda scheme the previous May , there be a surge in migrant around Calais approach the french authority to try to regularise their position in France , because they do not want to risk be send to Rwanda . it be disgraceful that , time and again , those behind these amendment — the Labour party , continue this ping - pong — have not come up with a single solution to the really important question of what we do with asylum seeker who have come to this country illegally , who have no credible case to be in the UK , but who it be practically impossible to return to their own country . it be also absolutely disgraceful that just this morning the shadow Home Secretary , the right hon . member for Normanton , Pontefract and Castleford ( Yvette Cooper ) , make it quite clear that a Labour Government would abolish the Rwanda scheme , whether it be work or not . they be say to people on the other side of the channel , " just wait a few month , and then you can come in your drove . " that be the truth of the matter , and these amendment need to be beat again . although at time I agree with quite a lot of what the hon . member for East Worthing and Shoreham ( Tim Loughton ) say , the point he have just make about Labour ' s policy be absolutely incorrect . I be very pleased that the Minister state at the beginning of his remark that the other place absolutely have the right to act as a revise Chamber and give its advice to this Chamber . lord amendment 3 g be table by the noble Lord Hope of Craighead , a former deputy president of the Supreme Court . it state that " Rwanda can not be treat as a safe country for … the purpose of this Act until the Secretary of State have obtain and lay before Parliament a statement from the independent Monitoring Committee " confirm that the treaty provision have be implement . it also allow the Secretary of State to rescind the confirmation if the treaty stop be adhere to , rather than the nonsense position of claim that Rwanda be safe for evermore . this be a sensible and measured amendment to deal with the fact , allow that they may change . on the day that the Prime Minister have state that some asylum decision maker and judge have be train , the joint monitoring committee have be set up and the president of the new appeal body have be select , we still do not know whether all the other provision of the treaty have be fully implement or whether a sufficient number of official be in place . with the Prime Minister insist that flight will begin in 10 to 12 week , Lords amendment 3 g provide a vital safeguard , ensure that everyone send to Rwanda will be protect by the implementation of the treaty provision . I think that be entirely reasonable , and I agree with what the right hon . and learn Member for Kenilworth and Southam ( Sir Jeremy Wright ) say . lord amendment 10f , table by the noble Lord Browne of Ladyton — a former Secretary of State for Defence — provide an exemption for people who support the UK armed force overseas , or who have otherwise be agent or ally of the UK overseas . anyone seek to rely on that exemption would need to provide notice to the Secretary of State " within one week of arrival in the UK " . minister have seek to reassure member that they be review the position , and will consider and revisit how the Illegal Migration Act 2023 and removal under exist immigration legislation will apply to those who be determined to be ARAP - eligible . however , I must note that , when respond in the House of Lords , the noble Lord Browne dub that assurance to be " worthless " . we should all be conscious of the strength of feeling among those former senior armed force personnel who support this amendment . when individual risk their life to support british troop overseas , we must honour our commitment to provide sanctuary , not outsource it . that be why I support Lords amendment 10f . I be mindful of time , as always , and the time be quite rightly be reduce as we deal with this Bill — in a rather similar way to how , with some sort of exotic recipe , the sauce be reduce on every occasion — and we be now down to two important amendment . I be glad that , in his tone and his approach , my right hon . and learn Friend the Minister have at the Dispatch Box , as he should , absolutely embrace this debate , which be all about the detail and about get it right . he know I support this policy . we have again hear a lot of rhetoric in this Chamber , which be unfortunate and misleading . we be do something genuinely innovative , and it be right that we should do so . I do think that the revise Lords amendment 3 g in its form now , particularly in the light of the remark of my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Kenilworth and Southam ( Sir Jeremy Wright ) , do actually strike an appropriate balance in make sure not only that the reality of the position in Rwanda be meet by the deeming provision in law , but that there be a mechanism by which we can deal with this as a Parliament if indeed circumstance change . with great respect to my right hon . and learn Friend the Minister , he do almost concede that , if there be to be a change in the situation in Rwanda , primary legislation would have to be at least consider by the Government . it seem to I that it would be far well to ensure against that and to avoid the need for further primary legislation by make sure we can wrap it all up in this Bill , and have a system that be not just strong when it come to potential legal challenge , but give this place its rightful role . so , alongside my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Kenilworth and Southam , I still commend and support that particular provision . on Lords amendment 10f , I note the comment my right hon . and learn Friend the Minister make at the Dispatch Box , with the assurance he give about the status of people who have have an assessment and be therefore find to have satisfy the requirement of the scheme , and that be an important step forward . I do not take the view that we should regard these matter as worthless . I do regard it as have quite a lot of weight , and I be grateful to he for that . I think that make that very clear in the Bill would probably clear up the matter once and for all , and it may well mean — not that I mind be here until the wee small hour of the morning — that we can clear up this business once and for all . I be in the market for sort this out now , so that the Bill can become law before it be too late this evening , which be why I would commend perhaps a little further movement on Lords amendment 10f by my right hon . and learn Friend the Minister . throughout the proceeding on this Bill , my party both here and in the other place have by and large give support to the Government , even though at time we have be sceptical and concerned about the effectiveness of some of the measure . however , I have to say that we draw the line when it come to Lords amendment 10F , on the protection of people who have serve with our armed force in dangerous situation and now find their life be put in jeopardy . the Minister have make the point time and again that some of these amendment be wreck amendment or attempt to create loophole and so on , but let we look at Lords amendment 10F . the people who would be cover by this amendment will , first , have serve this country . secondly , as a result , their life will be in danger . thirdly , when they arrive in this country , they must within a week immediately inform the authority they be here , which allow for the record to be look at , their claim to be verify and their connection with the armed force to be ascertain . lastly , if they have not do that , in any subsequent case the court can draw an inference from it . so nothing could be more watertight than this amendment , yet the Government be refuse to accept it on the basis that there be already arrangement in place . why be it — and my hon . friend the Member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) have raise this time and again in the House , as have other — that people who serve the armed force in Afghanistan find themselves in danger at present ? they be on the run from the police in Pakistan , and they be hide because the police in Pakistan want to send they back to Afghanistan , where they will be in danger . why ? because the system have not work for they . that be why it be important that the amendment be accept . we have a moral duty and , as have be point out , if we be to look to the future and recruit people in trouble spot to help the armed force , we have a strategic duty . if the Minister really want to get this stuff through tonight he have a political reason for do this , because by accept the amendment he will at least take away another leg on which the other House be seek to stand in oppose the Bill . for all those reason I hope the Minister will accept the amendment , to protect those who have serve we , get the Bill through , and avoid any further delay . I think this be a disgraceful Bill and I want to oppose it at every opportunity . however , to follow on from the right hon . member for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) , we have to accept that at some stage the Bill will go through , and it be the normal run of thing in these matter that the Government will have compromise on a number of issue , usually by this time . for the life of I I can not understand why we have not reach that compromise so far , particularly on this amendment . as the right hon . Member say , if the system be work at the moment , we would not be find the case that we have get . the situation in Afghanistan in particular be deteriorate at the moment . for example , I be deal with a woman who be now in this country but who campaign for woman ' s right in Afghanistan . the Taliban be now arrest and torture her family , just because she stand up for woman ' s right . if anyone be associate with the British Government in any form , that make matter even bad . I have a constituent asylum seeker in one of the hotel whose family simply rent out property to the BBC and some of the british authority . the family get out , but they still have a connection , and they show I video of the Taliban turn up and beat , almost to a pulp , the staff who be work in those premise . the situation be deteriorate and the exist system be not work . People who be in any way associate with the British Government , and british force in particular , be target , and their family be target . they be not just abuse ; they be torture . I think we have a debt of honour , and that compromise have to be do tonight . the amendment can not be see as a wreck amendment in any way ; it be simply a logical conclusion to the debate that we have have in both Houses . I urge the other place to stand firm on this amendment , because I think the british public support it . indeed , I think that perhaps a majority in this House want to support it too . I urge the Government to think again , because this have go beyond the normal process . my hon . friend the Member for Aberavon ( Stephen Kinnock ) ask what there be to gain for the Government by continue this process . if they think it be about demonstrate their bravado and commitment , and try to milk some publicity out of it , it be go the other way . at the moment , the general political and public mood be that , for goodness ' sake , accept that when a compromise be offer we should seize it , particularly on this issue . I hear impatience and irritation from the conservative Benches that we be still here debate this , but I respectfully point member towards the impatience , irritation , and even outrage on the part of my constituent at the fact that the Government be waste vast amount of their money on something that they know , and the Government know , will not work . if there be a one - in - 200 chance that an asylum seeker might be send to Rwanda , it will clearly not be a disincentive . what might be a deterrent would be to process the application that we have , and remove that 25 % of asylum seeker who turn out not to be genuine , but we will never know that if we do not have the competence to process they . it would also be sensible to set out safe route , so that people be able to bypass and therefore undermine the model of the evil people trafficker . that outrage from my constituent be also due to knowledge of what could be do with the money that have be spend on this nonsense scheme so far . it be the equivalent of 5 . 7 million GP appointment , if the Government have the priority that the british people want they to have . the two amendment be entirely sensible . I do not need to repeat all the argument for they , but we should have independent verification , rather than simply declare that a place be safe despite the lack of evidence , which be nonsense . as an aside , if Rwanda be a safe place , why would it be a deterrent ? if it be not a safe place , why would any decent government send anybody there ? I support the Lords in push their amendment 3 g and 10f . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will not give way , because we be about to finish and it be unfair on other . lord amendment 10f guarantee that those who have risk everything to protect and serve our servicemen and woman in Afghanistan can not be betray by this or a future government . that be basically a simple and decent thing to ask for . whatever motivation the Government ascribe to those press the amendment , it be clearly totally reasonable , and a reasonable Government would accept it . to finish , I will address the conservative party ' s irritation that we be still here . I gently encourage conservative Members present to imagine a time — sometime in the future maybe — when they be in opposition . let we imagine a time when a Government of a different colour ignore the rule of law , bypass the court , think themselves above the law and then try to use their number in Parliament to steamroller through something that be not in their manifesto and for which they have no mandate . an honest answer to that question would lead to this Government yield . this be awful legislation . it be cruel , inept and expensive . we should vote to keep the amendment , the Lords should keep go , and the Government should concede . with the leave of the House , may I address directly my right hon . and learn Friends the Members for Kenilworth and Southam ( Sir Jeremy Wright ) and for South Swindon ( Sir Robert Buckland ) , who both address Lords amendment 3 g ? it do not do what they be look for . they be look for a parliamentary moment , and this amendment would merely produce a statement . I invite they to imagine a scenario whereby what we have be discuss would not produce an urgent question or a moment for a Secretary of State to make a statement in the Chamber of the House of Commons in any event . I repeat to they : this amendment do not meet the challenge they have set . I encourage they to be with the Government in a few short minute . we must get on and put an end to this . we must pass this legislation to stop the boat . perhaps in the word of my hon . friend the Member for Stone ( Sir William Cash ) , I urge this House once again to send a clear and unambiguous message to the other place . question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 3 g . Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Graham Brady Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Damian Collins Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Oliver Dowden Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith Jonathan Gullis Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Lia Nici Neil o ' Brien Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Rob Roberts Laurence Robertson Mary Robinson Andrew Rosindell Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Andrew selous Jim Shannon Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy Rishi Sunak James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Joy Morrissey Mark Jenkinson Diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Jon Ashworth Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Mhairi Black Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Nick Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Robert Buckland Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Alistair Carmichael Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Joanna Cherry Feryal Clark Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Angela Crawley Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Edward Davey Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Tim Farron Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Colleen Fletcher Stephen Flynn Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Drew Hendry Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Gen Kitchen Ben Lake David Lammy Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Simon Lightwood David Linden Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Kenny MacAskill Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Rachael Maskell Keir Mather John McNally Steve McCabe Siobhain McDonagh Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Gavin Newlands John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Bridget Phillipson Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Steve Reed Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tommy Sheppard Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Alex Sobel John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Alison Thewliss Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz christian Wakeford Catherine West Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart Jeremy Wright Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Tonia Antoniazzi Mary Glindon the House divide : Ayes 306 , Noes 229 . question accordingly agree to . lord amendment 3 g disagree to . More than one hour have elapse since the commencement of proceeding on the Lords amendment , the proceeding be interrupt ( Programme Order , 18 March 2024 ) . the Deputy Speaker put forthwith the question necessary for the disposal of the business to be conclude at that time ( Standing Order no . 83F ) . after clause 5 - exemption for agent , ally and employee of the UK Overseas Motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 10F . — ( Michael Tomlinson . ) Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Graham Brady Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Damian Collins Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Sarah Dines Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Oliver Dowden Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith Jonathan Gullis Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Lia Nici Neil o ' Brien Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Rob Roberts Laurence Robertson Mary Robinson Andrew Rosindell Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew Selous Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy Rishi Sunak James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Joy Morrissey Mark Jenkinson Diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Jon Ashworth Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Mhairi Black Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Nick Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Robert Buckland Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Alistair Carmichael Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Joanna Cherry Feryal Clark Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Angela Crawley Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Edward Davey Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Tim Farron Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Colleen Fletcher Stephen Flynn Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Drew Hendry Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Gen Kitchen Ben Lake David Lammy Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Simon Lightwood David Linden Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Kenny MacAskill Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Rachael Maskell Keir Mather John McNally Steve McCabe Siobhain McDonagh Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Gavin Newlands John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Ian Paisley Jnr Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Bridget Phillipson Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Steve Reed Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Jim Shannon Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tommy Sheppard Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Alex Sobel John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Alison Thewliss Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Tonia Antoniazzi Mary Glindon the House divide : Ayes 305 , Noes 234 . question accordingly agree to . Lords amendment 10f disagree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order No . 83H ( 2 ) ) , that a Committee be appoint to draw up reason to be assign to the Lords for disagree to their amendment 3 g and 10f ; that Michael Tomlinson , Scott Mann , Dr Kieran Mullan , James Sunderland , Stephen Kinnock , Colleen Fletcher , and Alison Thewliss be member of the Committee ; that Michael Tomlinson be the Chair of the Committee ; that three be the quorum of the Committee . that the Committee do withdraw immediately . — ( Suzanne Webb . ) Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Graham Brady Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Damian Collins Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Oliver Dowden Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith Jonathan Gullis Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Lia Nici Neil o ' Brien Guy Opperman Ian Paisley Jnr Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning Andrew Percy Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Rob Roberts Laurence Robertson Mary Robinson Andrew Rosindell Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew Selous Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy Rishi Sunak James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Joy Morrissey Mark Jenkinson Mhairi Black Deidre Brock Alan Brown Amy Callaghan Joanna Cherry Ronnie Cowan Angela Crawley Martin Docherty Allan Dorans Marion Fellows Stephen Flynn Patricia Gibson Patrick Grady Drew Hendry Stewart Hosie Ben Lake David Linden Kenny MacAskill John McNally Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald Anne McLaughlin Gavin Newlands John Nicolson Brendan O ' Hara Kirsten Oswald Anum Qaisar Tommy Sheppard Alyn Smith Chris Stephens Alison Thewliss Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Claudia Webbe Philippa Whitford Hywel Williams Pete Wishart Peter Grant Steven Bonnar the House divide : Ayes 309 , Noes 37 . question accordingly agree to . committee to withdraw immediately ; reason to be report and communicate to the Lords . that conclude consideration of the Lords message of 18 April relate to the Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Bill . for clarity , I should say that the result of that Division mean that the House have decide that the Reasons Committee should be appoint . I would normally say at that point that the Committee do withdraw immediately , but those in it have probably already go . [ laughter . ] the House may be call upon to consider a further Lords message later today , if necessary . business of the House ( today ) order , that , notwithstanding the provision of paragraph ( 14 ) of Standing Order No . 80a ( carry - over of bill ) , the Speaker shall put the Questions necessary to dispose of proceeding on the Motions in the name of ( 1 ) Secretary Kemi Badenoch relate to the Digital Markets , Competition and Consumers Bill : carry - over extension ; ( 2 ) Secretary Michael Gove relate to the Renters ( Reform ) bill : carry - over Extension ; and ( 3 ) Secretary Michael Gove relate to the Economic Activity of Public Bodies ( Overseas Matters ) bill : carry - over Extension not later than one and a half hour after the commencement of proceeding on the Motion for this order ; such question shall include the Questions on any Amendments select by the Speaker which may then be move ; proceeding may continue , though oppose , after the moment of interruption ; and Standing Order No . 41a ( defer division ) shall not apply . — ( Suzanne Webb . ) Digital Markets , Competition and Consumers Bill ( carry - over Extension ) order , that the period on the expiry of which proceeding on the Digital Markets , Competition and Consumers Bill shall lapse in pursuance of paragraph ( 13 ) of Standing Order No . 80a shall be extend by 232 day until 12 December 2024 . — ( Penny Mordaunt . ) renter ( Reform ) Bill ( carry - over Extension ) order , that the period on the expiry of which proceeding on the Renters ( Reform ) Bill shall lapse in pursuance of paragraph ( 13 ) of Standing Order No . 80a shall be extend by 210 day until 12 December 2024 . — ( Penny Mordaunt . ) economic Activity of Public Bodies ( Overseas Matters ) Bill ( carry - over Extension ) Motion make , and question put , that the period on the expiry of which proceeding on the Economic Activity of Public Bodies ( Overseas Matters ) Bill shall lapse in pursuance of paragraph ( 13 ) of Standing Order No . 80a shall be extend by 177 day until 12 December 2024 . — ( Penny Mordaunt . ) Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Graham Brady Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Damian Collins Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Oliver Dowden Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax James Duddridge David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois George Freeman Mike Freer Louie french Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith Jonathan Gullis Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Neil o ' Brien Guy Opperman Ian Paisley Jnr Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Rob Roberts Laurence Robertson Mary Robinson Andrew Rosindell Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Paul scully Andrew selous Jim Shannon Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy Rishi Sunak James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Joy Morrissey Mark Jenkinson Diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Jon Ashworth Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Mhairi Black Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Nick Brown Chris Bryant Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Alistair Carmichael Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Joanna Cherry Feryal Clark Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Angela Crawley Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Edward Davey Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Chris Evans Tim Farron Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Colleen Fletcher Stephen Flynn Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Gill Furniss George Galloway Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Patrick Grady Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Drew Hendry Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Gen Kitchen Ben Lake David Lammy Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Simon Lightwood David Linden Rebecca Long - Bailey Holly Lynch Kenny MacAskill Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Kit Malthouse Rachael Maskell Keir Mather John McNally Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Anne McLaughlin Anna McMorrin Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Gavin Newlands John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Steve Reed Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tommy Sheppard Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Alex Sobel John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Alison Thewliss Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Claudia Webbe Catherine West Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Peter Grant Steven Bonnar the House divide : Ayes 304 , Noes 222 . question accordingly agree to . pension ( Special Rules for end of Life ) Bill ( Money ) king ' s recommendation signify . resolve , that , for the purpose of any Act result from the Pensions ( Special Rules for end of Life ) Bill , it be expedient to authorise the payment out of money provide by Parliament of any increase attributable to the Act in the sum payable under or by virtue of any other Act out of money so provide . — ( Suzanne Webb . ) International Freedom of Religion or Belief Bill ( Money ) king ' s recommendation signify . motion make , and question propose , that , for the purpose of any Act result from the International Freedom of Religion or Belief Bill , it be expedient to authorise the payment out of money provide by Parliament of any expenditure incur under or by virtue of the Act by a Minister of the Crown . — ( Ms Nusrat Ghani . ) first , I declare an interest as chair of the all - party parliamentary group for international freedom of religion or belief . I rise to ensure that the money and staffing that be necessary for this measure be in place . I heartily welcome the House ' s decision to appoint a special envoy for freedom of religion or belief and to pass this Bill — and hopefully this money resolution — to ensure that the envoy have the staff and support necessary for this position , so that this be not simply a token gesture , but effective in secure freedom of religion and belief . I want this not just in our nation , but across the world to secure the right for people to hold and practise a christian belief or another belief , or to hold no belief . will the Minister confirm that this be undoubtedly money well spend in term of our international obligation , and that the secretariat will have sufficient staff and money to ensure that this gigantic task that we have before we tonight will be fully deliver ? the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) raise some very important point . he will know , have see the Bill pass through so many stage , that all the resource be in place . the Public Bill Committee be sit on Wednesday and I will be take the Bill forward . I be absolutely committed to the role and to provide the support service to enable the role to continue for as long as it can . the language that we have use establishe this role permanently and in perpetuity . the recommendation come on the back of the Bishop of Truro ' s 2019 independent review into the work of the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office and the freedom of religion or belief brief . furthermore , the implementation be also a manifesto commitment , so we can be absolutely sure that the support will be provide . question put and agree to . Hospice Funding I beg to move , that this House have consider the postcode lottery of funding for hospice ; and call on integrate care board to urgently address the funding for hospice - provide palliative care in their area . as a member of all - party parliamentary group for hospice and end of life care , I be very happy to be co - lead this debate with my lovely friend , the hon . member for Darlington ( Peter Gibson ) , who apply for this debate today . I have so much admiration for hospice and palliative care provider , and empathy for those experience die , death and bereavement . both my parent die of cancer , and I will always be grateful for the amazing care that they receive . hospice care be important to so many people and we be very lucky to have St Michael ' s Hospice in beautiful Hastings and Rye , and Demelza House , which offer palliative care for child — largely through outreach work . when my right hon . friend the Member for Bromsgrove ( Sir Sajid Javid ) be Health and Social Care Secretary , he announce the legal right to palliative care for all age . this be in an amendment to the Health and Care Act 2022 , which declare , for the first time , a duty for integrate care board in England to commission palliative and end of life care that meet the need and demographic of the population it serve . I could not believe that end of life care be not already a legal right . we should all want to see the good support available for those people who be near the end of their life as well as their family , and excellent palliative care — support for people physically , mentally and spiritually — be vital . I agree with everything that the hon . Member have just say . I wish to highlight the importance of palliative care for child and the amazing support that some child ' s hospice be able to provide not just for the child , but for the entire family . it really be wraparound care , and so important for those parent go through that bereavement process . I thank the hon . member for his intervention , and I could not agree more ; he be absolutely right . my hon . Friend ask why this support be not fund . in Southend we have the absolutely brilliant Havens hospice , which include the child ' s hospice Little Havens . More than 80 % of its funding come from donation , so it be dependent on sky dive and cycle ride , which be fantastic , but give that we fund , on the NHS , the beginning of life with maternity care , do she not think that we should be fund the end of life ? I do , and I will be come to that a little later . the future of end of life care be uncertain , as increase cost and demand be put huge pressure on hospice and care provider . when it come to the debate on assist suicide , it be important that people feel confident that their end of life care will protect they from pain and suffering . certainly , we need increase funding . More resource be need for end of life care service , include hospice , home care and palliative care team . St Michael ' s Hospice , for example , cost around £ 7 million a year to run and it receive about £ 2 million a year from the integrate care board and the remain £ 5 million come from the community in various form . like all hospice , St Michael ' s be heavily dependent on the generosity of local individual , company , group and trust . this funding model be uncertain and unsustainable and place hospice under considerable strain . I thank the hon . Lady for give way and congratulate she on this important debate . on the point that the hon . member for Brent North ( Barry Gardiner ) make about child ' s hospice , I have the fantastic Shooting Star child ' s hospice in Hampton in my constituency , which serve a wide catchment area . the hon . Lady mention the statutory duty , introduce by the Government , on icb to commission and fund palliative care , but the problem be that there be such huge variability . Surrey Heartlands , which be one of the icb that Shooting Star serve , spend only a paltry £ 39 per child , even though the average should be about £ 151 , and other icb will not even disclose the amount . do she agree that we need multi - year contract with icb to serve these hospice ? I agree , and will come to that later in my speech . Demelza receive just 10 % of its income from the child ' s hospice grant , which end in March 2025 , and just 4 % of its income from spot purchase , so 86 % of its income must come from fundraise . I be concerned that neither the UK Government nor NHS England have set out whether the child ' s hospice grant , which be worth £ 25 million , will continue beyond 2024 - 25 . the grant be a vital source of funding for child ' s hospice . Dependence on the generosity of member of the public to pay for vital healthcare would not be tolerate in other core area of healthcare such as maternity service , cancer care or A & E . hospice be the only statutory service that rely on fundraise to keep go , despite end of life care be an essential service that so many of we will need . what make hospice so remarkable be their independence . my fear be that the more one demand that they be fund by the state , that independence will be curtail and question . the hon . member for Twickenham ( Munira Wilson ) put her finger on the difficulty : the problem be in the difference between the policy of different icb . be they fund centrally by the grant available , as they be during the pandemic , I think it would be much well . I agree . it be important to point out that most hospice do not want 100 % funding from the government because they need the flexibility to do what they want . fundraising be a really important part of the local community effort , bring people together , but when the dependence on fundraising be so vast we might need to intervene to provide extra funding . end of life care be an essential service that so many of we will need , but the situation be make bad by inflationary pressure and rise demand . we have an excellent ICB in Sussex — NHS Sussex , lead by Adam Doyle — which have highlight that hospice be recognise as have become increasingly fragile in recent year , due to a lack of resilience in their funding model , which be heavily reliant on gifted income alongside NHS grant . Royal Trinity Hospice in my constituency support people across central and south - west London to live and die well . next year it will cost it £ 19 million to deliver care for its around 2 , 500 patient and support for their nearly 1 , 000 love one — a 20 % on - year increase . meanwhile , the NHS funding that it receive will decrease in real term to 24 % of the cost of run its service . do the hon . Member agree that the Government should commit to maintain the funding level that hospice such as Royal Trinity require to ensure that people receive the quality of end of life care and the dignified death that they deserve ? this be the point of the debate : to work out what sort of funding model we need . icb also need to be give the freedom to assess the priority in their local area , but I take that on board . we have eight hospice across Sussex , and in 2019 seven of they form the Sussex hospice collaborative — partnership work to ensure that the hospice ' combined resource can be use to maximise the impact , reach and cost - effectiveness of their activity . NHS Sussex work closely with that collaborative arrangement , which have support the ability to have collective conversation . in January , the APPG on hospice and end of life care publish a report on Government funding for hospice . the inquiry find that despite the introduction of a legal requirement for integrate care board to commission palliative and end of life care , ICB commission of hospice service be currently not fit for purpose , and the value that hospice provide to individual in the wide health system be at risk . Hospice funding have historically not rise in line with inflation , which have be bring starkly to light during the period of high inflation in recent year . cost to keep palliative service run have increase rapidly over the past few year , but that be not reflect in the Government funding that hospice receive to deliver the service , which have increase by only 1 % each year on average . the hon . member be be generous , and make an outstanding speech . I congratulate she on bring this matter to the House . St Mary ' s hospice , St John ' s hospice and Eden Valley hospice , which serve the community of Westmorland , struggle like other to find the funding that they need to keep go . one issue be increase pay settlement in the NHS , which be good , but to compete , and to get and retain staff , they need to raise their pay to keep pace . do she agree that one model may well be that , rather than devolve this to icb , which be not elect and not directly accountable to anybody , the Government fund through the national health service pay rise at NHS pay rate directly to all our hospice , so they at least do not have to worry about that ? the hon . Gentleman raise a valuable point , which I be sure the Minister will take onboard . I be grateful to my hon . friend for her excellent speech , and for secure this important debate . she come to the crux of the matter . I be really interested to hear from the Minister , because our Mountbatten Isle of Wight hospice in Newport be much love , and one of the core institution on the Island . its inflation cost in the last two year have be way above what it have be get from the ICB . our ICB be in special measure . we have two meeting with the ICB last week , and it be very unclear about some of its long - term plan and how it be use its funding . do she agree that we need to ensure that our icb be properly manage and run ? I be delighted that she have a great ICB . for we , it be a little more complicated . we need to ensure that funding go through to hospice , so that when there be a state element of funding — one can debate the important nature of fundraising — the NHS money get through . right now , it do not seem to be do so . it be unfortunate that your ICB be not very good at all — order . it be the hon . Gentleman ' s ICB , not mine . yes — my hon . friend ' s ICB be not very good . obviously , leadership structure and a clear list of priority be essential to deliver what the public need . the significant funding challenge be particularly concern in the context of increase need . Sue Ryder , a palliative and bereavement support charity , project that the demand for specialist palliative care service in England may rise by 55 % over the current decade . that rise in demand be due to several factor , include increase mortality rate and a grow desire by patient to die at home rather than in hospital . we clearly need a commitment from Government to fund a much high percentage of total palliative care cost than at present to ensure the sustainability of the hospice sector and the vital service that hospice provide in the medium term . icb can not commission specialist service without the funding to do so . the APPG ' s report make a number of recommendation to Government , the NHS and local authority . on funding , the APPG recommend that the Government produce a national plan to ensure the right funding flow to hospice , and conduct or commission a piece of work to understand the cost of provide different model of palliative and end of life care . it also call for Government funding to address immediate pressure of pay increase staffing cost for hospice , and say that icb must ensure uplift to hospice contract that be equitable with uplift receive by NHS - run service . we have a Marie Curie hospice in Belfast that give excellent care to those who have cancer . do the hon . Lady agree that , while it be important to have the financial part in place — without it , hospice can not go on — the faith aspect be important as well ? many people need hospice care on their last journey , ever mindful that their last journey be not in this world ; the next world be the one that matter . when it come to ensure that money be available , do she agree that faith be important as well , and that the faith care that the Marie Curie hospice give in Belfast be an example of what we all need ? whatever our faith may be — Christianity or another religion — it be important to have something that look after the hereafter . faith be important for so many people . even for those without a faith , there be a spiritual aspect that need to be look after . my hon . friend the Member for Darlington will cover the report in more detail . hospice need to be able to plan and invest in their service and develop and train specialist staff , so they need to know in advance how much funding they be get . hospice already face issue of training and recruitment , and whether they will be able even to provide an adequate service because of funding restraint should not be another worry . my goddaughter be a young doctor who want to specialise in palliative care , which be remarkable for a young person . we need more young people — more medic , nurse , occupational therapist and so on — in this grow area . a three - year funding cycle at least be require , as it would allow hospice and palliative care provider to plan accordingly . I conclude my remark with a worrying Hospice UK statistic : it estimate that the end of life care sector be on track for a £ 77 million collective deficit for the financial year 2023 - 24 . that would present the bad end of year figure for the sector in around 20 year of tracking . those loss be not sustainable , and our right to end of life care be at risk unless immediate action be take . our hospice , palliative care and end of life service need to be properly fund . will the Minister outline what step she be take to ensure that that happen ? I thank the hon . member for Hastings and Rye ( Sally - Ann Hart ) and for Darlington ( Peter Gibson ) for secure this important debate . hospice do incredible work . in community across the country , they hundred of thousand of people every year with essential palliative and end of life care . the service that hospice deliver be absolutely crucial to improve the quality of life for people in their final week and day , help to provide a dignified , comfortable and compassionate end of life . that support be vital not just to people at the end of their life , but to their family and friend . end of life care impact not just the patient but all their love one , and the specialist support that hospice provide patient in their final stage of life , and their family who be watch they pass away without suffering or pain , be immeasurable . it be why hospice be so important . in my Enfield , Southgate constituency , we be lucky to have a facility of the incredible North London Hospice , which have be care for people since 1984 . its health and wellbeing centre in Barrowell Green help to enable the good of life at the end of life for people across the borough of Enfield , Haringey and Barnet , provide tailor care , include physical , emotional , spiritual , wellbeing and bereavement support for patient , friend , carer and love one . I must also mention those in the wonderful North London Hospice photography club , who support each other and take amazing picture , which they sell to raise fund for the hospice . I remember hear from a constituent of mine , Joy Watkins , who be receive care and support at the hospice . Joy have sadly now pass away , but her word about the importance of the hospice and the care that she receive be incredibly move . Joy speak about go to something call a death caf é — an informal space for people to talk about end of life , share their concern and listen of other express their thought , hope and experience of death . she say that go to the death caf é enable she to make choice about the end of her life . she could make choice about who to spend time with and about the finance that she would make use of at the end of her life . it transform the way in which she view and handle the end of her life . the way in which we talk about and approach die matter , and Joy ' s word have really stick with I . indeed , they be one of the reason I introduce my private Member ' s Bill — the Terminal Illness ( Provision of Palliative Care and Support for Carers ) Bill — back in 2018 . next month , Hospice UK will be promote its campaign for Dying Matters Awareness Week , and I look forward to support its effort on that important initiative . honest and timely conversation about death and dying be essential to good end of life care , but barrier include lack of confidence , taboo around discuss death , and confusion about who should be have these conversation all too often mean that patient , carer and family may not understand what be happen or get all the information and support that they need . that be where hospice and their brilliant staff come in . more recently , a close family member of mine receive support from North London Hospice , and although Gabby sadly pass away , I be so grateful for the hospice ' s specialist care . yesterday I and about a dozen hon . member run the London marathon . I be proud to do so to raise money for North London Hospice . when pound the street of London in such a wonderful festival of community yesterday , I be strike by how many runner be , like I , raise money for their local hospice . that demonstrate the sad reality of inadequate central funding for hospice . I have be try to bang the drum for North London Hospice since I be first elect , and although it take I a few year to muster the courage to put on the run vest and put my knee on the line , as each year pass it feel as if the challenge face hospice grow great and more acute . as we know , hospice be an integral part of our health and social care system . they work in partnership with local health and care system , help to reduce the pressure on our NHS by care for patient who would otherwise be directly support by NHS service . as a community , we be reliant on hospice — they be important part of the community that they serve — but they be also reliant on we for support , through fundraising and donation , because they be largely charitably fund . on average , around two third of adult hospice income be raise through fundraising such as charity shop and marathon , and the figure be high for child ' s hospice , which must raise around four fifth of their income . on child ' s hospice , Shooting Star in my constituency , which I have already mention , be very grateful that the Minister have commit to the child ' s hospice grant for 2024 - 25 , which come centrally from NHS England . the problem be that that be a year - to - year commitment , which do not help hospice such as Shooting Star to plan for the long term . do the hon . Gentleman agree that a ringfence should be place around that funding and that it should be peg to inflation year on year so that child ' s hospice can plan properly ? the hon . Member make an excellent point . long - term funding be absolutely essential if hospice , particularly child ' s hospice , be to be able to plan ahead . North London Hospice be reliant on donation from the community each year to fill its £ 10 million funding gap , as only a small proportion of its cost be fund by the NHS . of course , the cost of living crisis continue to eat away at people ' s finance , which directly impact on our community ' ability to provide the vital charitable support that hospice rely on . the reality of the current state of funding be that hospice be struggle to keep up with inflation and rise cost , which be lead to service be cut . however , demand for palliative care continue to grow — for North London Hospice , it have grow at a rate of 5 % year on year . the cost of run hospice service , include energy bill and the cost of pay staff a fair wage , also continue to rise rapidly . hospice recruit from a small pool of staff in the NHS and care sector , but they be not provide with the same Government funding to meet NHS pay level , mean that many hospice staff be do the same job as their NHS colleague but be pay less for it . as a result , Hospice UK ' s figure suggest an 11 % growth in payroll cost this year , which mean around £ 130 million of additional spending that be not meet by increase statutory funding . as I have mention , those cost be not meet with additional uplift from NHS funding or contract , and despite a legal requirement for icb to commission palliative care service that meet the need of the local population , the funding that hospice receive from icb vary significantly across the country and mean that charitable donation make up much of their income . as a former hospice fundraiser — it be what I do before I come here — I be grateful to the hon . member for Hastings and Rye ( Sally - Ann Hart ) and for Darlington ( Peter Gibson ) for secure the debate . part of the problem that I face at first hand be that when I be go out to private company , trust and foundation in order to raise fund to increase pay with inflation , that be often the hard thing to fundraise for . the ICB be never very forthcoming , particularly when we would enter into conversation with it in the year prior to the year be fund . my hon . friend make an excellent point . fundraising be hard enough ; inflationary cost make it much hard for fundraiser to do their excellent job of bring an enormous amount of money together to make sure that all our hospice be run adequately . many hospice , like North London Hospice , will continue to operate a deficit budget for 2024 - 25 , with the shortfall be meet from reserve . indeed , Hospice UK estimate that the sector be on track for a £ 77 million collective deficit for financial year 2023 - 24 , the bad end of year figure in around 20 year of tracking . this funding model be simply unsustainable , and will undoubtedly lead to hospice cut back essential service for patient . the issue be become increasingly urgent . we need to look at how hospice be fund in this country . they provide essential support ; they should not be a voluntary service that be top up by whatever fundraising be available . an integral part of our healthcare system be reliant on charitable donation . no other service be fund in that way ; it be unthinkable that it would be leave up to charity to plug shortfall in maternity service , for example , so why be end of life care reliant on the kindness of stranger ? it be really worrying . we need a far more secure , long - term model of funding that protect our hospice and partner they with the wide health and care system . if we do not properly support our hospice , we be in danger of lose they . I appreciate that funding model be different across the UK , but the hon . Gentleman have raise a point that I have a bit of concern about . there be two hospice in my constituency , one of which , St Margaret of Scotland , be the large and old in Scotland . the voluntary capacity on the board of management have allow it to develop and increase its palliative care provision . do the hon . Gentleman agree that we should maybe look at parity of esteem between the voluntary hospice sector and our different NHS structure , in order to have equity of approach and investment ? the hon . Member make an excellent point . we need to look at what model work well for each region . I do not know about the model he talk about , but we need to look at the long - term funding of hospice , and what work well for each hospice and region . I be pleased that today ' s debate have show the strength of feeling on this issue , and that member have highlight the need for great support and funding for hospice in the UK . that point be make clearly in the excellent speech by the hon . member for Hastings and Rye , as well as in intervention . I look forward to hear from the Minister on the Government ' s response to the challenge that have be outline . finally , I once again thank everyone at North London Hospice for all their amazing work in my community and beyond , and I also thank Hospice UK for all its advocacy on these issue and its excellent briefing ahead of today ' s debate . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Enfield , Southgate ( Bambos Charalambous ) ; it be great to see he in the Chamber after his performance yesterday in the London marathon . I congratulate he on complete it . it be a pleasure to be call to speak in this long - await debate , and I thank and congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Hastings and Rye ( Sally - Ann Hart ) for move the motion . I thank hospice around the country that have engage with I in my preparation for today ' s debate , and I thank the Hospice UK team — Toby , Katie and Olivia in particular — for their ongoing support for I and the all - party parliamentary group on hospice and end of life care , which I co - chair along with Baroness Finlay of Llandaff . I draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests : I be a trustee of North Yorkshire Hospice Care , which operate both Herriot Hospice Homecare and Saint Michael ' s hospice in Harrogate . I have serve as a trustee of that hospice for over a decade , and have see the difficulty that piecemeal commission cause for our precious hospice . to my mind , this debate be not simply about ask the Government for more money — we know that there be serious public financial challenge post pandemic — but an opportunity to discuss on the Floor of the House solution to the challenge that our hospice face . I thank the Backbench Business Committee for allow we to have this debate . the number of member who wish to speak in support of their local hospice today be testament to how much each and every one of our community value its local hospice . this be a matter of life and death . the hospice movement be there to deliver good death ; that might seem a strange thing to say , but palliative care deliver in the right environment — be that a hospice , a child ' s hospice , or a person ' s home through a hospice at home service — be a truly wonderful thing . those precious final few week of a person ' s life be imprint into our memory , and it be right that those who be die , and those who be love , support and care for they , do so in an environment where there be proper funding and commissioning , and where we can plan and prepare to provide continue care . I thank my hon . friend for his contribution , as well as the Members who make the previous contribution , both of which focus to some extent on palliative and end of life care . two hospice serve my constituency , St Andrew ' s in Grimsby and Lindsey Lodge in Scunthorpe ; both provide an excellent end of life environment . do my hon . friend agree that if we be to defuse the movement towards encourage assist dying , we need to ensure that our hospice provide a service as an alternative ? I be very grateful to my hon . friend for his intervention . I have my personal view about assist dying , and I be sure that in the fullness of time , this House will debate that issue . this debate be not about assist die : it be about our hospice , and how we fund and support they . with the great of respect to my hon . friend , conflate the two issue be not helpful . even post death , our wonderful hospice movement provide much - need bereavement care to those who have suffer the loss of a love one . the Health and Social Care Act 2021 make provision for the very first time for the commissioning of palliative care . that be a landmark . integrated care board around the country now have responsibility for commission palliative care to meet the need of the community that they serve , which be a good thing . it ensure that local commissioner , work together with local provider and local representative , can deliver the palliative care need of their respective community . this be a timely debate . tomorrow morning , the Health and Social Care Committee will have a topical session on hospice care . my hon . friend mention " icb " , plural . I have Naomi House and Jacksplace hospice in my constituency . its trouble be that on top of all the rise cost and inflationary pressure that it face , it be negotiate with six icb for the same amount of grant . when my hon . friend come to summarise the recommendation of his excellent all - party group , will he recognise that challenge that many hospice face across multiple commission body ? I be very grateful to the Chairman of the Select Committee for his intervention , and for his continue engagement with I on this important topic . he raise a really important issue . as I will come on to say , this be not simply about each ICB meet its own challenge . we need national and Government attention to resolve the issue . there be a very mixed patchwork picture across the country . during covid , the Government step up to the plate , act decisively and provide much - need financial support to the hospice movement . that support not only prevent many hospice from fail and collapse , but ensure that much - need palliative care could continue to be deliver around the country . the picture today , however , be one of immense challenge for our hospice . many have fail to receive increase support under their contract with icb to meet the rise cost of energy and staffing . at the same time , our hospital face increase pressure for bed . it be a fact that one night in a hospice cost less than a night in a bed in hospital , and while there be reason why a person may need to remain in hospital , well palliative care can be deliver in the more appropriate surrounding of a hospice . just last week , I meet the chief executive of Sue Ryder , Heidi Travis , who also serve as a commissioner for Cambridgeshire and Peterborough ICB . it be interesting to learn that work be be undertake to explore way in which hospice can do more with the same funding , or in some case less . however , if we be to explore creative new way of deliver hospice care , either through hospice - at - home model or virtual ward , full and frank conversation need to be have between hospice and their integrate care board to truly explore the art of the possible . in the Tees Valley , I have be pleased to be able to bring together , on multiple occasion , St Teresa ' s in Darlington , Alice House in Hartlepool , Butterwick hospice in Stockton , and teesside hospice in Middlesbrough . they work collectively with all eight member of Parliament cover the Tees Valley , so that there be a collective voice for the region , and so that we can be a beacon of excellence in the provision of palliative care in the north - east . the uplift in funding for those four hospice under the North East and North Cumbria integrate care board be simply not enough , but the fact that they be work together and meet the ICB be a sign of improve relation , and there be hope for the future . I wish to touch on the work of our child ' s hospice , which a number of member have mention . they be an integral part of palliative care across the country , and I be grateful for the engagement I have have in recent week and month with together for short life . the NHS child ' s hospice grant of £ 25 million from the Government be gratefully receive by the sector . however , that funding should be guarantee for a minimum of three year to enable those hospice to plan properly and commission service , and the amount should be uprate in line with inflation each year . furthermore , the money must be ringfence , so that when it be pass on through regional icb , the entirety of the money flow to the frontline — to those child ' s hospice . I ask the Minister to address that point in she sum up . in prepare for today ' s debate , I ask for information and evidence from Hospice UK about hospice in each of the four nation of our country . Saint Michael ' s , a hospice of which I be a trustee , be the local hospice care charity support people affect by terminal illness and bereavement across Harrogate . each year , the vital care it provide cost almost £ 6 million to deliver . of that , just 17 % be fund by the Government ; that equate to a little over £ 1 million of its total running cost . that leave over £ 5 million to be raise through the generosity of its supporter and community . the rise in inflation have put additional strain on its finance , but have be meet with a funding increase of just 1 . 2 % from the ICB . Shalom House in Pembrokeshire need to raise around £ 288 , 000 to keep run , which be equal to £ 24 , 000 per month . it receive only £ 5 , 000 per month from its health board , and this amount have be halve in the last five year from £ 10 , 000 . it have not receive an uplift for at least the last four year . it anticipate that funding end in September 2024 , when the new commissioning model in Wales come into effect . without a cash injection , it be in danger of close within the next 12 month , as its reserve be low . while Shalom House be small , the impact on the community , like that of all hospice , be huge . in Scotland , Ardgowan in Inverclyde be , despite a very generous community , face a deficit of £ 100 , 000 . it expect this to rise to £ 172 , 000 for the next financial year . in the last 18 month , it have see utility cost rise by 67 % and insurance cost by 10 % . it need increase support . in Northern Ireland , 65 % of the funding for Foyle hospice in Londonderry come purely from fundraise . it be unable to plan ahead or reconfigure service because of the uncertainty about statutory funding , include the outcome of the recent day hospice review . it have receive some non - recurrent funding through the cancer charity relief fund , but may be unable to provide those highly valuable service when that funding run out in March 2025 . we be a compassionate and wealthy country . we have a national health service that , despite some of its challenge , do incredible thing , but so too do our hospice — be they base in building or in patient ' home . our hospice really must be see as an integral part of our national health service . I want to push the hon . gentleman on the point I make to the hon . member for Enfield , Southgate , because I have hear this notion of symbiosis with the NHS , but they be two very distinct approach to care . from my perspective , the palliative care sector be at its good when it be run as a voluntary local body . would he expand a wee bit more on what he mean by that kind of convergence with the NHS ? there be a fear among those in the voluntary hospice sector that what they be do to push palliative care forward could be hold back by more physical integration in the NHS . order . before the hon . Member continue , I just remind everybody that there be quite a bit of interest in this debate . if we could ensure self - discipline in the length of speech , that would be very helpful . I be very grateful for the intervention , and the hon . Gentleman raise some really important point , which I be not sure I have time to go into in detail . if the Government be go to give the national health service enough money to increase the wage of everybody in the national health service and the integrated care board be commission service from hospice around the country , the very least those hospice should expect be an equal minimum uplift so that they can maintain parity of wage . our hospice be not seek to be nationalise . they cherish their independence passionately , and it be because of their independence that they be so integrated into our community , but if we be go to rely on they to provide service , the least we can do as a society be to meet the cost of the service we be expect they to provide . Mr Deputy Speaker , mindful of your word , I will bring my remark to a close in a moment . philanthropy and charitable giving have be the foundation on which our wonderful hospice movement have be establish . to my mind , hospice ' charitable status have enable they to be flexible and to develop an holistic pattern of palliative care outside the NHS . however , in the 21st century it can not be acceptable that funding be reliant on pensioner perform skydive and community bake cake to fund palliative care . much work have be do , and much work must be do by our icb and the Government to map the demand and need for palliative care across the country . we must end this postcode - base patchwork of provision . it really be time that the Government establish a rapid taskforce to collaborate with the entire hospice movement and our integrated care board to ensure that we as a nation have the good provision in palliative care , and that everybody can have a good and peaceful death . I thank the hon . member for Hastings and Rye ( Sally - Ann Hart ) and for Darlington ( Peter Gibson ) , as well as the APPG , for secure this hugely important debate on the Floor of the House . in Coventry , we be extremely lucky to have Myton hospice . like other hospice across the country , Myton be a critical part of the healthcare system and play a vital role in provide care for people from the point at which their illness be diagnose as terminal to the end of their life , while also support the need of their family . the service that Myton provide be a crucial part of palliative and end of life care in Coventry . the work it do and the service it provide not only ease pressure on the wide health and care system in our city , but ensure that patient receive exactly the care they need when and where they need it . without Myton , patient might find themselves unnecessarily rely on A & E or other hospital department , which would massively increase the burden on , and cost for , the NHS . I know at first hand how important Myton be to our city and local community , because my husband , Ian , receive end of life care there . diagnose with leukaemia in 2014 , he have a stem cell transplant and be fight his way back to reasonably good health when , three year later , he become ill with an aggressive secondary cancer and be diagnose as terminally ill in 2018 . he want to die at home , but we be advise that domiciliary end of life care be " clunky " . those be not my word , but the word of the NHS care team who be advise and talk to we . that mean that we could not be sure of a timely home visit if my husband need more pain relief — and he be on a lot of pain relief . he be on a pain driver and I could give he liquid morphine , but that shot , which only a district nurse could give he , might not have be there immediately and he might have have to wait an hour or two hour for the nurse to come . he decide to go into Myton hospice , which be only a stone ' s throw away from where we live , so it be very local to we . he go into Myton hospice , and I stay with he until he pass peacefully away just one week later . it be a tranquil , respectful place , where all his need be meet , and our . we be grateful for that real quality time together . just before Christmas , I go to an event at Myton hospice where I meet staff , the love one of those who have receive palliative and end of life care there , and the people who fundraise to help ensure that Myton can continue to provide its vital service . it take just moment when speak with people at such an event not only to understand the importance of the hospice sector , but also to recognise the huge funding challenge it face . we know that the hospice sector ' s reliance on fundraise for much of its income bring with it significant risk , and those risk have be compound in recent year , first by the pandemic and now by the cost of living crisis . as a result , the hospice sector be face a perfect storm , with the cost of deliver service increase , while charitable donation be volatile and NHS funding be fall in real term . take Myton Hospices as an example : just 20 % percent of its funding come from the NHS , and in real term that be decrease every year . that come at a time when its cost be consistently increase year on year . for the financial year 2024 - 25 , its running cost will be £ 14 . 3 million , and it will need to raise £ 11 million of that in voluntary income . that be compare with run cost of £ 13 . 25 million and raise voluntary income of £ 10 . 5 million last year . those funding challenge inevitably increase pressure on and access to service . I know that more people need a hospice bed than ever before , and demand for bed at Myton have increase by 25 % over the last year . as a result , over 70 % of people accept for a bed at Myton will not be able to access one straightaway and will have to join a waiting list . sadly , three out of four people wait for a Myton bed will die before they can access one . although I understand the funding pressure that Coventry and Warwickshire integrate care board be operate under , that certainly raise question about whether it be meet the requirement to commission palliative and end of life care to meet the population ' s need . indeed , I know that with funding for just four more nurse , Myton could open eight more bed and eliminate its waiting list completely , ensure that everyone in Coventry and Warwickshire get the palliative and end of life care that they need and deserve . those funding challenge be certainly not unique to Myton , and most — if not all — hospice be face similar problem . this need to change . if we be to ensure that demand for hospice care be meet , both in in - patient unit and in the community , and eliminate the inequality and postcode lottery of service , we need hospice funding to be sufficient , resilient and sustainable . I ask those at Myton hospice what step they believe need to be take to ensure we have a thriving hospice sector , with long - term sustainability at its heart . they tell I they believe there need to be a tariff - base approach to funding that reflect the core service provide , so that funding be base on what each hospice provide against clear criterion . they also feel that essential hospice service , include doctor and nurse , should be fund by the NHS . we must ensure that all patient with a terminal illness receive the right care to meet their need , that that care be deliver with dignity , respect and compassion , and that the end of their life be value as much as the beginning . to achieve this , hospice must be fund fairly and sustainably . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Coventry North East ( Colleen Fletcher ) and her powerful speech . I also thank my hon . friend the Members for Hastings and Rye ( Sally - Ann Hart ) and for Darlington ( Peter Gibson ) for secure such an important debate , and I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Minister , who be an excellent Minister . I enjoy work closely with she at the Department , and I know she will listen carefully and act where she can on the issue raise during the debate . hospice play a vital role in local community and within the wide health and care system , provide care to those at the end of their life , and support and comfort to their love one . St Helena hospice in my constituency be no different , and since its opening on 20 May 1985 it have support countless family in and around Colchester and north Essex during their most difficult time . however , over the last two year it have be more challenging for it to carry out its vital work . St Helena have average a deficit of £ l million per year over the past two year due to rise demand , increase cost , and real - term cut to its NHS funding . similar to case raise by other colleague , only 27 % of St Helena hospice ' s income come from our NHS , which mean that 73 % of the income need to run it be raise through the local community . as be unfortunately common across the country , that income stream have face its own difficulty due to the increase cost of living . East Anglia ' s Children ' s Hospices also play a hugely important role in care for family and child in my local area . during 2022 - 2023 it care for 532 life - threaten baby , child and young people , and deliver more than 72 , 000 hour of care and wellbee support for family . however , every year each face the ongoing challenge of generate 85 % of its income from non - statutory source . it receive only 15 % of its income — about £ 2 . 7 million — from the NHS and local authority , mainly on a year - by - year basis via grant and zero - base contract . have see at first hand the impact that hospice have on local community , and the fondness with which St Helena and each be think of in Colchester and more widely in our region , I can see that it be essential that hospice all over our country be not allow to fail . that be not only because outcome for patient will be arguably bad , but because , as a recent Sue Ryder report show , adequate funding for hospice be more cost - effective than replace service with the NHS . as a former Health Minister I want to urge some caution in call for national solution for commission . of course we should look at address postcode lottery wherever they exist , but in do so we must remember that every area be different . the need of our population be different , and hospice provision in and of itself be different in every one of our constituency . icb be set up to make local , holistic , system - wide decision base on their population ' need and priority , always put at their heart the need and outcome of patient , but also look at system cost , so that there be not that silo mentality in working , and ultimately at what be in the good interest — in term of outcome and value for money — for our NHS and the taxpayer . have say that , I think there need to be more consistent commissioning . icb should commission against service specification . to conclude , I will make a more general observation : we be not very good at talk about death . notwithstanding what I say about icb , there be a national role here . I would like to see the Government support a population approach to end of life care , involve more people in their care planning , promote choice and dignity , and support community care alongside that . many people would rather spend their last day at home around their love one , their pet and their family , if possible , than die in hospital . support hospice and community service be a way of help to keep people at home if that be their preference , with not just well outcome for patient but ultimately well value for our NHS and the taxpayer . I close by thank all those at St Helena Hospice and each for the amazing work they do . I thank the hon . member for Hastings and Rye ( Sally - Ann Hart ) and for Darlington ( Peter Gibson ) for secure an excellent and important debate . we think of hospice as place where people go to die , but they be not ; they be place where people go to live comfortably , support and care for while they be ill , until that moment of death and — for many of the family — beyond . I might not be the only MP in the Chamber for whom this debate have make I remember my mortality , but I think we would all agree that when we come to that time , we want to be look after by kind , supportive staff who can give we the care and attention we need . those staff should be able to look after patient and their family without worry about how they will feed their own child . room should be warm , and director of hospice should be think about how they can support as many people as possible , not when they will have to switch off the heating or turn someone away . hospice across the UK provide care and support to 300 , 000 people every year . they be absolutely vital to our health and social care system , but unfortunately , they be face serious financial challenge . it have now become a postcode lottery for many of our constituent . I be listen to my hon . friend ' s impassioned speech , and the experience that she bring to this House be valuable . the brilliant Keech Hospice serve so many in Luton North . it do amazing work , not just on end of life care , but on vital bereavement support for everyone , include child . in the past year alone , Keech ' s energy cost have increase by a quarter of a million pound . that , combine with the cost of living crisis , put financial pressure on fundraising , which make up two third of its total funding . do my hon . friend agree that we need sustainable funding model for hospice care ? failure to provide that put much - need service at risk . I absolutely agree with what my hon . Friend say . we absolutely need those model . as I go through my speech , I will be agree with what she have just say . John Taylor Hospice in my constituency , which be run by Birmingham Hospice , do unbelievably important work to support my constituent and their family in Erdington , Kingstanding and Castle Vale . the staff work day and night to make sure people be care for while they be ill , and I could not be prouder to support they in this Chamber today . I must add that I have work there in the past . Birmingham Hospice care for almost 1 , 000 local people with a life - limit illness every day . last year , it cost more than £ 16 million to run its service , some 40 % of which need to be recover through fundraising income . over the past few year , the hospice have see a significant increase in cost , include the price of energy , food and vital medicine , and a shortfall in funding for staff pay award . at the same time , fundraising have decline across the hospice sector with the cost of living crisis hit poor area like mine the hard . Birmingham Hospice be currently lose £ 200 , 000 a month . with inflationary cost and fall voluntary income , the only option to keep the hospice go be to reduce the service it provide . a reduced service will increase inequality across our city of Birmingham and the country . sadly , more people will die in hospital or A & E as a result , when they could have have outstanding care at the hospice or at home with the support of the community team . the hospice be dedicate to ensure that outstanding care at the end of life be available to all , but it have recently be in the difficult position of have to make essential staff redundant to maintain financial security . that be not just happen in Birmingham ; nationally , Hospice UK estimate that 100 , 000 people in the UK who could benefit from palliative care die without receive it each year . hospice play a huge role in alleviate pressure on our NHS , and they do not have the ability to reset their budget on 1 April each year , as the NHS do . instead , their deficit continue and the valuable care that they provide to local community such as mine be at risk of be lose . I have work in the health service all my adult life . when we speak about hospice , we rarely mention the vital role that they play in provide respite care and support to the family of someone who be ill . I thank my hon . friend for her wonderful contribution to the debate . many people want to stay at home — I have stay with four people right through to their death at home — but hospice give a different care from hospital . if you go into hospital , you might not get into the hospice . we have 10 bed in the most beautiful hospice , which be fund 71 % from fundraise . if they be not in a hospice , and they do not have care at home — not everybody can do it at home ; they might not have the family to provide the care they need — they can end up in a hospital for hour . do my hon . friend find that in her area ? they can get triaged in an ambulance outside the hospital , and they do not get the palliative care and support , and their family do not get support — it be a completely different service . do you agree that we should be look for more hospice care , not less , but we should not be change it to a hospital ward ? it be a different atmosphere in a hospice . do you find that be the case ? that be not decry hospital , but hospital be not somewhere to die . I absolutely agree with your sentiment and statement . as be say early , we need to move away from look at individual to look at population health and how we will support the local community . I will move on swiftly so that I can finish . my constituency be the fifth poor in the UK , and our community be in some of the UK ' s so - call leave behind neighbourhood . for place like mine , respite care be so important to ensure that carer get the break and support they need to keep they do the incredible work that they do . I be a nurse , and it break my heart that the NHS be in the bad state it have ever be in . throughout the 14 year of this Tory Government , I have see doctor strike , nurse strike , technician strike , people queue around the block for a GP appointment , people pull out their own tooth , the high waiting time in history , and complete disdain for the service that quite literally serve we from birth to death . we must have a national care service and we must properly invest in our NHS . it be no long acceptable for hospice to rely on charitable donation to try to survive . now more than ever , our hospice and our NHS need a Labour Government . I gently remind the House that when people use the word " you " , they be refer to I , so please try to resist that . it be a great pleasure to follow the hon . member for Birmingham , Erdington ( Mrs Hamilton ) , and I congratulate my hon . friend the Members for Hastings and Rye ( Sally - Ann Hart ) and for Darlington ( Peter Gibson ) on secure the debate . I wish to highlight foremost the significant challenge and opportunity before we in the care sector across the United Kingdom . in Southport , Queenscourt Hospice stand as a pillar of community strength , with its Star Trek night walk , which have raise nearly £ 100 , 000 , annual Christmas fair and summer ball — and who could forget the annual Santa sprint that unite our community in support of its service ? queenscourt initiative be vital . it be a privilege to visit Queenscourt Hospice in 2022 and meet the dedicated nursing , operation and fundraising team . I find their passion and commitment to serve Southport and the surround area truly inspiring , and I be committed to support their invaluable work . it be clear that the hard work of Debbie Pierce - Lawson and her team be pay off in Southport , and it be testament to the hospital ' s embed role in our community . similarly , my visit a few year ago to Claire House Children ' s Hospice highlight the immense dedication and heartfelt contribution make by staff and volunteer . their commitment to provide care for every child be commendable . their work bring indispensable comfort to affected child and their family during unimaginably difficult time , yet despite those immense and inspiring local effort the recent Hospice UK briefing project a £ 77 million deficit across the hospice sector for 2023 - 24 . Queenscourt Hospice , which need nearly £ 3 million to operate each year , receive only 20 % of that and have to raise the remain amount through exceptionally hard fundraising work . that figure be not merely a statistic but a stark indication of the financial hurdle face our hospice care system . hospice be cornerstone of our healthcare system , offer invaluable support to over 300 , 000 individual annually . that support extend beyond patient care to provide relief and assistance to family during the most challenging time . hospice ' remarkable effort in fundraise underscore the community ' s recognition of their vital role . however , the sector ' s reliance on charitable income highlight the need for a more structured approach to funding . it be hearten to see the Government ' s commitment to palliative care , notably through the Health and Care Act 2022 , which introduce a legal duty for integrated care board to commission palliative care service . that be a positive step forward , ensure that the need of the local population be meet . nevertheless , despite those stride , the variability in funding across the country and escalate operational cost represent ongoing challenge . I be proud of our Government ' s record in support hospice in the broad NHS . however , I recognise that as the demand for palliative care increase , we must continue to evolve and support the system so that it remain sustainable for the future . the anticipated growth in palliative care need , with an estimate 130 , 000 additional death annually by 2040 , underscore the urgency for develop a sustainable funding model . such a model would empower hospice to continue their work in partnership with the NHS , provide compassionate care and support . as I participate in the debate , I firmly believe in the Government ' s ability to address those challenge . I hope to hear that commitment from the Minister when she wind up the debate . by foster a collaborative approach with the hospice sector , we can ensure that hospice in Southport and across the United Kingdom be not just sustain but support to continue to provide critical service to those who need they . I welcome the debate , because it allow we to pay tribute to the wonderful work that hospice do in all our constituency across the country , while raise the peril that some of they be in , the insecurity they be face and the fragile nature of their funding . I be mindful of your caveat on time , Mr Deputy Speaker , so I will make just make two point , if I may . the first point be about adult service for my constituent . for many year , those service have be provide by the Pembridge palliative care unit , which be an adult community - base specialist palliative care unit just over the border in North Kensington . it be a fantastic place — I have visit friend who have be die there — and I be aware of its wide range of service . those be — or at least be — not just in - patient care but telephone advice , community care nursing and therapy team . as I say , there be a wonderful in - patient unit ; unfortunately there be not at the moment . the ICB be consult on various option , some of which would see that unit reopen . it close allegedly not because of funding but because the consultant leave and it be not possible to recruit a consultant to fill the post . I would have some sympathy with that be it not for the fact that it close in 2018 and we be still wait for the NHS to provide a consultant so that we can reopen the service , which be exactly what all my constituent want . I note that in the late consultation , in which there be option to reopen , the NHS say : " we have hear there be still a strong desire for the Pembridge in - patient unit to be reopen and that option from the public for how we could reopen the unit could be more widely consider than they have be to date . " that be put it somewhat mildly . it be an indication of the parlous state of some service around the country , despite the hugely high - quality service they provide . the other issue be about child ' s hospice service . those for my constituency — in fact , for the whole north - west London ICB , which cover a population of 2 million people — come from Shooting Star Children ' s Hospices , which the hon . member for Twickenham ( Munira Wilson ) mention because it be base in her constituency . it write to I recently and say that it support " 700 family live across Surrey , south - west London and north - west London . our specialist care and support be completely free of charge to family and available 24 hour a day , 365 day a year . it include specialist nursing in the community , symptom management and pain relief , overnight respite stay , end - of - life care , specialist bereavement care and a comprehensive range of therapy , group , and clinic for the whole family . " the majority of its funding — we have hear this from hon . member on both side of the House this evening — come from fundraising ; approximately a third be fund from statutory channel . each £ 1 receive from statutory channel necessitate the raising of an additional £ 2 to sustain its service . I can not imagine that happen in many other area . there be other example of charitable funding , such as for air ambulance , but I be pleased that that be not the norm in the health service . the plea that Shooting Star Children ' s Hospices make be for " properly fund paediatric palliative care across the UK " , to " create a level play field in term of funding " . what could possibly be unreasonable about that request or — I would rather say — demand ? on the back of that request , I attend — I think a number of hon . member in the Chamber do — the recent meeting hold here , which be organise by together for short life . I be incredibly impressed by it . at the meeting I meet the chief executive of Shooting Star , Paul Farthing . at his request , I have write to the head of my local ICB to request , in the first instance , simply that it meet , discuss and get to know the service that be well offer . one of the problem with the majority of funding come from the voluntary sector through fundraising — I understand why that be important and we want it to continue , as it renew link with the community — be that there be less of a connection with the statutory sector than there would be in other respect . icb need to work very closely with their local hospice , even if they be not base in the same geographical area , as be the case in my constituency . they jointly need to have a plan for how to go to the Government and persuade they that we need stable and ongoing funding , last more than one year and cover the impressive range of service that I have mention . without that , a lot of service such as Pembridge will be in doubt . a Member mention assist dying , which we be debate next week . the two thing be relate but separate . we want the most compassionate and clear service for people at the end of life . part of that be ensure properly fund hospice service , whether for adult or for child . I again thank the organiser of the debate , the hon . member for Hastings and Rye and for Darlington , for bring this matter to the House ' s attention . I hope the Government be listen . I congratulate my hon . friend the Members for Hastings and Rye ( Sally - Ann Hart ) and for Darlington ( Peter Gibson ) on their hard work to secure the debate , and on their work on the all - party parliamentary group . I lead a Westminster Hall debate on this subject on 14 June 2023 . I be pleased that we be have this debate , but disappoint that no further progress have be make on the problem we express then , give the problem that hon . member be express this evening . as have be say , the hospice sector do a remarkable job and play a pivotal role in our health system , provide care and the support need to those who watch their love one pass away , and wonderful care in those week until that point . that happen to I and many of my dear friend upon the passing of my office manager Sue Hall on 30 March 2023 . she pass away at the age of 57 from lymphoma , leave her husband Jerry and her daughter Phoebe and Rosie . she be care for fabulously by the team at Mountbatten hospice in my constituency . the family and I be able to count on the support of the fantastic staff at that hospice , who not only provide the good care that Sue want , need and deserve , but give we the wraparound support during and after that period . like many hospice , Mountbatten provide 24 / 7 in - patient and community domiciliary care to Southampton and large part of Hampshire . it support around 1 , 000 family every day . demand for its service be expect to rise by 40 % in the next 18 month . it cost £ 11 . 5 million to run every year and rely on fundraising , which equate to around 70 % of its total budget . nhs contracting represent around 30 % of service deliver . however , the funding model in place be inadequate , with the ICB give only a 2 . 4 % uplift in the contracting of service , when the real rise in cost require an 8 % uplift . for 2025 - 26 , the Hampshire ICB have once again say that there will be no uplift , which mean that Mountbatten will need to find an extra £ 750 , 000 just to provide the same service that it do today . strengthen our local hospice take pressure off our NHS . my hon . friend make a good point that the benefit of fair funding be plain to see , yet some hospice get no public funding at all from the local NHS . one such hospice be Sidmouth Hospice at home in my constituency . Dr Sarah Wollaston , formerly of this place and chair of the NHS Devon ICB , still need to provide a detailed idea of what fund Sidmouth Hospice at Home can get . it do not receive a penny from the NHS in Devon . that be wrong . do my hon . friend agree that it can not be right that some hospice service and charity get fund from integrated care board — something we should be proud of — while other get nothing at all ? I agree . in Hampshire we be lucky that 30 % of Mountbatten ' s service be contract by the NHS . the ICB — which be in special measure , as my hon . friend the Member for Isle of Wight ( Bob Seely ) say — be not do a good enough job of provide those service . if a hospice want to explore get some of that funding from the national health service , it should be allow to do so , while recognise the independence of spirit of many hospice that choose to go their own way . my hon . friend be right to raise the work of the hospice in his constituency , and I hope that it will be able to acquire some ICB funding . it will cost Mountbatten an extra £ 750 , 000 just to provide the same service , while the number of people it support will rise by 200 % . the Minister will say that this Government award another £ 1 . 5 billion for hospice service through icb . that be entirely welcome , and I congratulate she on her announcement in my debate last year . but I say now what I say in that debate : the icb be not pass on the money for the purpose set out . icb — particularly mine in Hampshire — be ride roughshod over the Government ' s wish and be exacerbate a problem in a system that already fail to take into account the vary nature of need across different part of the country . my hon . friend the Member for Isle of Wight ( Bob Seely ) and I have a meeting last week with representative from our ICB . I ask how much of that £ 1 . 5 billion have be award to the Hampshire ICB . they could not give an answer . I ask how much of that be allocate to hospice in the region . they could not give an answer . I say what I say last June to the Minister , who be do an excellent job : that money be very welcome but I hope we can look at a well way of hold icb to account , to ensure that when the Government put hard - press money into our health system , icb deliver it to the frontline service for which it be intend . that be no different in Hampshire . the leadership of Hampshire ICB need to look at that seriously . Mountbatten also have to compete with the NHS for its workforce . it rightly choose to pay and award its staff along the same pay guideline as NHS staff . this year , that represent a 4 . 8 % rise in cost , and will represent a further 5 % next year . again , I thank the Government for award an extra £ 450 , 000 to Mountbatten , but that will still leave a deficit of £ 1 million overall this year . it be right that it choose to pay its staff adequately , but that will mean Mountbatten will have to lay off some of its workforce , harm outcome for family in my constituency . that will be the case in the rest of the UK if other hospice have the same problem . the funding instability — which in my case I blame on the ICB , which be lead a review into hospice care — seem entirely one - sided . it will end up cost the NHS more money , as hospital will pick up the burden of care , and bed will be use by people who should be in hospice . we all know the impact that energy bill and covid have on the sector . I do not mean to sound depressing to the House , but we must continue to look at this issue . the Government ' s investment be extremely welcome , but we need more . I would like to hear from the Minister how the Government and the NHS nationally intend to work together to provide a sustainable long - term funding settlement for hospice care , while retain that independence that hon . member have outline . we need the Minister to review how much money icb be pass on to hospice , and to take a strong line in review the role of icb and hold they to account if they be not give that money to the frontline . the Government , the hospice sector and the icb have a clear choice : a sustainable funding model for our hospice , or more pressure on an already stretch national health service . the hospice staff I have meet care and want to deliver on the challenge that many of our constituent face across the United Kingdom , but they need a level playing field in order to provide that care . let we help they do that and improve hospice care . rise — Order . I thank member for shorten their speech . we still have another 15 people who wish to contribute . I congratulate everyone who have speak in the debate . the House have come together to highlight something that I be struggle with : when people be at their most vulnerable , they be have to beg for money to fund important service . that should not be the case , yet here we be with an nhs that be clearly not function and other service be also feel the pain . the reorganisation of the NHS devolve power to icb , but we must remember that it be the responsibility of the Government to ensure that the structure function . that be not happen at the moment , and our constituent be lose out . a word that keep echo in my mind , roll off our lip as it always do , be the NHS : the " national " health service . yet we be hear about a postcode lottery , where different area have different experience , with different icb fund to different tune and where you live account for how you die . surely , we be well than that ? in the word of one clinician about the extraordinary provision at St Leonard ' s Hospice in York : " have work with people at the end of life through my career , I didn ' t know care like that be possible . " however , as with all hospice , if funding be not address , such care will not be possible . it be this Parliament that infer the duty , through the Health and Care Act 2022 , to address the inequality in access to palliative and end of life care , so that everyone can have the good clinical and holistic support possible , if the right funding be stabilise and put in place . currently , however , we know that many people — Hospice UK say one in four — be not access palliative care . that be 150 , 000 people every year who die without the support they require . that number be set to rise 25 % by 2048 and , accord to Marie Curie , by 13 % in the next decade . this debate can not just be about what happen now , but what happen in the future . in York , the hospice run an £ 800 , 000 deficit last year . the hospice at home funding have remain static for the past seven year , while demand have double and the ICB have provide just a 1 . 2 % increase . Sue Ryder believe that the real cost increase over the past year be 10 % . Hospice UK figure release say there have be an 11 % increase for the payroll this year to around £ 130 million . Martin House , the local child ' s hospice , cost £ 9 . 9 million to run . with a total income of £ 8 . 6 million , it have a £ 1 . 3 million deficit . only 18 % of its funding come from the statutory source , £ 1 . 1 million come from the national child ' s hospice grant and £ 700 , 000 come from the ICB . Hospice UK estimate a £ 77 million deficit for the financial year just past — the bad for 20 year . as demand and cost be rise , the funding be not rise to match . as of 12 April 2024 , St Leonard ' s hospice in York do not know how much money it be get from the ICB : leave to carry all the risk and leave to depend on its reserve , and that , of course , not guarantee for the future . Martin House , which be also use its reserve to expand its service , know that it will have only six month of reserve . it certainly do not know what be happen with its funding after this financial year . the child ' s sector , yes , have receive a grant , but what come next ? we can not just run our hospice by run marathon and run charity shop . it be drive inequality . in area of great deprivation , fundraising be even hard and therefore the hospice be get even less money . I thank my hon . friend for give way and I thank the hon . member for Hastings and Rye ( Sally - Ann Hart ) for secure the debate . it have be a wonderful and sincere debate , but do my hon . friend agree that there should be more equality between care at home — hospice at home — and care at the hospice ? there be no doubt that there be nothing well than care in a hospice — absolutely no doubt . I have nurse four member of my family at end of life , and get clinical support at home when it be need be always a problem — my brother have to search for morphine at night . do she agree that staff be fund even less and be on the minimum wage ? I be really grateful to my hon . friend for raise those point and I will come on to the issue of hospice at home . we know it be absolutely vital that people can choose where they die . not everyone want to die in a clinical setting — indeed , a hospice be barely a clinical setting — but many choose to die at home and they should be able to receive the care they need . she be right . we must have integration with the rest of the NHS . a district nurse may not be able to push palliative care to the extent that a palliative care specialist would in provide pain relief and the support somebody need at the end of life at home . we need it to be timely and we need to ensure it be fully fund . the Health and Social Care Committee find that when it visit Royal Trinity hospice , as part its assisted die inquiry . the point be make that we need to ensure we have the training so that clinician have the competency and the confidence to administer the pain relief and the palliative care that be necessary , and to ensure that the service be available universally . it be not and that must be address . in York , of the 1 , 000 people who benefit from St Leonard ' s hospice last year , 50 % receive hospice care at home . that number will grow over time and we need to ensure those service be there as they be need . of course , we know that if people be not on that pathway they end up in the acute service . they be put through the trauma of A & E , cost the NHS goodness know how much , and then they do not get the care they need . Trinity Hospice talk about what it be do to divert people away from that pathway and into proper care , either at home or within its wide service . there be much still to secure on that front . if I may , Mr Deputy Speaker , I will raise just one more major point before I close , which relate to inequality . we know there be real inequality at the end of people ' s life . some of it be base along socioeconomic line , and some of it be emphasise within minority community . we need to deal with that to ensure we have universal provision , address the death literacy of our nation , and ensure the support be there when it be need . I be particularly concerned about the lack of comprehensive funding for our palliative care service . I urge the Minister to look at funding staffing cost , which be 69 % of all funding . it have be suggest by Marie Curie that 70 % of funding come from the state , and I think that be about right . we can phase that in , but we need to ensure we address the inequality that be drive through the system . we need to put in the research that be need , so there be well datum on who be access care and who be not , and we need to ensure that we be push palliative care as far as we can . if we do not , and we debate assist dying , I be worried that people will be fearful that they will not be able to access the care that could be possible should that service be properly fund . I really urge the Minister to make that a priority before that debate take place . Mr Deputy Speaker , I will end on that point . rise — Order . I be go to try to protect everybody so that they can get in , so it be a seven - minute limit forthwith . thank you very much , Mr Deputy Speaker , not least for enable I to reassure myself that I can still get out of my seat , despite my London marathon leg from yesterday — I have to find a way to get that in ! may I start with some positive ? I do not want to steal the Minister ' s thunder , but there have be some really good support for hospice in recent time . we hear about the covid support . the Government give around £ 400 million to increase capacity and to enable patient to be discharge from hospital . we see hospice benefit from the Government ' s energy bill relief scheme until April last year and , since then , the discount scheme until March this year . as we hear early , there have be an increase in the NHS England child ' s hospice grant from £ 12 million in 2019 - 20 to £ 25 million in 2023 - 24 . I believe that that have , since July last year , be commit through to 2024 - 25 , albeit it be now allocate through icb rather than directly . so why be hospice struggle ? I think that the answer be well encapsulate in a recent report from the Health and Social Care Committee , which state that funding for specialist palliative and end of life care be " insufficient and unsustainable " and be create " inequality in access to and quality of care . " what do that mean for hospice in my constituency and across Cheshire ? let we take the Hospice of the good Shepherd in Chester , which be just outside my constituency but serve many of my constituent . as its chief executive , Rhian Edwards , inform I , last year it deliver more than 2 , 000 hour of direct care per week , support 476 patient and their family . to do so , it use £ 4 million of its own charitable fund , with the ICB contribute £ 1 million . over three year the ICB contribution have fall from 22 % to 20 % , and be expect to fall far to 16 % in the next financial year . this be against a backdrop of run cost — 80 % of which be staff cost — shoot up , mainly as a consequence of the requirement to match pay award for medic and nursing staff , welcome as they be for those worker . the impact be a forecast operating loss of just under £ 1 million for 2024 - 25 , and there be a similar scenario in nine out of 10 hospice in the country . Rhian tell I : " although we ' ve always struggle to balance our book , this level of deficit be feel very different . " another example be St Luke ' s hospice in Winsford , which have be provide palliative care since 1988 . it have 162 member of staff , and 95 % of the workforce live and work in Cheshire . it have 700 volunteer and 10 charity shop . at the heart of this incredible organisation be a charitable purpose , and it do amazing work , but only 12 % of its income be receive through the NHS and the ICB , one of the low percentage in support package of this kind across the country . it cost £ 5 million to run St Luke ' s , so it have to raise — I have work this out — £ 8 a minute to keep its service go . within the Cheshire and Merseyside region , it receive about £ 1 million less grant funding than a hospice of a similar size in Merseyside deal with the same end of life care . welcome though the extra funding be during covid , the fundamental financial issue face hospice have not go away ; they have simply be postpone . this financial year , for example , will see a £ 350 , 000 black hole in the finance of St Luke ' s , not help by a staggering 60 % increase in its utility cost . Neil Wright , its chief executive , explain to I : " as a charity , we have a fiduciary duty to balance the book . this mean that without progressive investment of sustainable funding , hospice will have to reduce and eventually stop service over the come year . this will then place 100 % of the financial burden of EoL " — end of life — " care back onto the already overstretch NHS " . so what can be do ? hospice such as St Luke ' s be not look for , or expect , 100 % funding ; they just want a sensible , sustainable funding formula . at present , however , ICB funding do not reflect the true cost of clinical care . when it come to sustainability , as other member have say , we need multi - year contract to give hospice the confidence to deliver their service and invest , grow and develop to meet the need of their community . we have the NHS long - term workforce plan , which be hugely welcome and , I believe , provide a real opportunity to assess — fully and rigorously — and deliver the palliative and end of life care service that be necessary to meet the grow demand over the come year and decade . it be also worth remember that some people face great barrier in access palliative care , include those who live alone , in poverty or with dementia , as well as those with learn disability . in the end , if we do not secure the long - term future of hospice , we will have create a false economy and a false reality . if we do , we will not only reduce pressure on NHS service and have few unplanned and potentially avoidable hospital admission , but will ensure that we can deliver compassionate care for those come to the end of their life and for their family and love one , thus demonstrate that we be a society that value both a good life and a good end of life . I be a trustee of Harlington hospice , and have be for the past decade . I hope to stand down shortly , because we have recruit four excellent new trustee and I be terrified that someone might ask I to run a marathon or something like that . together with my hon . and learn Friend the Member for Eddisbury ( Edward Timpson ) and the hon . member for Glasgow North ( Patrick Grady ) , I do run the marathon yesterday — on behalf of St Giles hospice , for which I raise more than £ 3 , 000 . may I invite the right hon . member to join we in that endeavour next year ? let we not allow the opportunity to pass . I set myself up for that , didn ' t I ? I congratulate all those who do run , but run a marathon might well see I off . over the last year or two , our hospice have merge with the Michael Sobell sport centre . we now provide a bedded unit , daycare facility , respite care — particularly for unpaid carer — and a hospice - at - home service . my hon . friend the Member for Hammersmith ( Andy Slaughter ) say that debate such as this allow we to pay tribute to organisation , and I certainly pay tribute to Harlington hospice . I pay particular tribute to the volunteer , include the chair over recent year . I hope they will not mind my name they : Brian Neighbour , who be formerly one of our local councillor , Carol Coventry and , now , Michael Breen . these volunteer give up their time and bring their professional skill to this work . we have a wonderful medical director , Ros Taylor , and an incredibly hard - work chief executive , Steve Curry . their effort provide the service and have enable we to survive , but it have be tough . like the hospice mention by a number of other member , we have just have to lay off some staff . there be nothing tough than have to lay off staff who be so dedicated . the issue for we , as always — this have be reflect throughout the House today — be the need for core funding on a sustainable basis . we need something like a five - year plan that we could work to . I know that sound a bit stalinist , but sometimes they work ; sometimes they do produce the tractor ! we need consistency over a period . as member on both side of the House have say , include my hon . friend the Member for York Central ( Rachael Maskell ) , if we could rely on staff funding from the state , that would lift the burden to a certain extent . we will continue the fantastic fundraising that be currently happen , but in a working - class community like mine , during a cost of live crisis , it be not that people do not want to give , but they do not have the resource to give . we have have a bit of a rough time now and again . a number of corporate organisation have help we through , but even then , when they be look at their margin during an economic recession , or when time get hard , there be a downturn for we as well . we just need the consistency of funding over a period that will enable we to build on our service . at present our service be swamp , and the range of service be become more complex as well . we be provide a lymphoedema service at one point . the complexity of the million with which we be deal require more specialist , and that in turn require more funding . although there have be percentage increase in NHS funding , they have go nowhere near meet the real cost that be challenge we at present . we have a good relationship with our ICB — we work with bid for contract , and with other community organisation deliver on the ground — but we want consistency of approach . we have organise a conference for 8 May . it be call " death , Dying and all that jazz ! " , and it will bring together a range of clinician and other , along with Hillingdon Hospital and other volunteering service , under the auspex of Harlington hospice . we will look at what we be undertake , what be need , and how we plan for the future . if the Minister would like to visit the conference or send representative , we would welcome that . we want to engage in discussion . we be come up to a general election , but I hope that this will not become a general election issue , because what we have see in the House and in the work of the all - party parliamentary group , which I commend , show that there be consensus on the core principle of the way forward . if we could secure a long - term commitment on a cross - party basis , we could go back to our hospice , talk to our executive and trustee , congratulate they on what they be do , and give an assurance that they will have a rock - solid financial base on which they can build , thereby allow they to rise to the challenge in our community . my final point be about the demand that we face . eight people die in hospital for every person who die in a hospice , yet most of those eight people would prefer to die either at home or in a hospice . that be the challenge we face , and we have see tonight that we have the wherewithal to meet that challenge , and idea on how to do so . may I add my thank to my hon . friend the Members for Hastings and Rye ( Sally - Ann Hart ) and for Darlington ( Peter Gibson ) for call for this debate , and to the Backbench Business Committee for grant it ? above all , I thank my constituent , who have contact I in great number to express their support for our hospice in Basingstoke , St Michael ' s . that heartfelt support have be echo by member of all party . we love our hospice ; they have a special place in our constituency , our community and our life . it be really important that we take a moment to reflect on exactly what hospice be ask for , because there have be a slight variety in what hon . member have say . it be as the right hon . member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) say ; I may not agree with he about have a five - year plan — that be too reminiscent of tractor production — but I agree that hospice be call for consistency of funding . one of the many constituent who write to I talk about the need for a national plan to ensure that the right funding flow to hospice , and so that there be national measure to support integrate care board with their commissioning decision — we hear about that early . as a result of the Health and Care Act 2022 , we also need to make sure that hospice have multi - year contract , that they be pay the full cost of commission clinical service , and that they see the same uplift in payment that other part of the NHS see . we know that that be not happen in Hampshire . my constituent be not call for hospice to be take over by the NHS . that be a really important point to make . it would be the wrong way forward . the amazing hospice in my constituency , St Michael ' s , together with Naomi House and Jacksplace , which my hon . friend the Member for Winchester ( Steve Brine ) refer to and be in his constituency , provide support for more than 1 , 000 family a year in our area . they be amazing because of the people , and I thank all the staff , the volunteer and the people who help run the shop — they be an incredible army . the hospice be also amazing because they be fiercely independent charity and can , as a result of their independence , do thing that the NHS find it difficult to do " at pace " , as they now say . I give the example of the introduction of hospice at home in my constituency many year ago . it be do because there be a need in the constituency , not because that be set out by central Government or the NHS . the other reason why we need to retain the fierce independence of our local hospice be that they involve the community . I want to mention the people I be join on Saturday for the bluebell morning in Steventon , which be organise by Julian Pilcher . I be go there with my right hon . friend the Member for North West Hampshire ( Kit Malthouse ) and other , because the walk raise thousand of pound every year to support our local hospice . the hospice be part of our community — we help to shape it , and we absolutely help to fund it — but there need to be a well balance in the way that our hospice be fund . the Health and Care Act 2022 , which introduce the statutory duty on icb , force that point . I hope that the Minister can help we understand how she will assist icb to do their job well , but also that she will look at the variance in funding . the hospice in my constituency receive a very small proportion of what some other hospice in Hampshire receive , and the disparity in funding be cause feel unfair , particularly when cost , especially wage cost , be increase and there be an increase in demand . I hope that the Minister can consider three point . first , how will she support the ICB to well plan for remove the enormous disparity in funding between hospice ? hospice ' need be no different , although sometimes their fundraising capacity be a little different . More than 80 % of my hospice ' s funding come from local fundraising , but how can we make sure that the NHS disparity be iron out ? secondly , how can we make sure that as fund move from NHS England to local icb , funding stream such as the child ' s hospice grant do not create administrative nightmare ? my hon . friend the Member for Winchester talk about that — about place like Naomi House have to negotiate with up to six icb to ensure that it continue to receive the same amount of funding . thirdly , I hope that my hon . friend the Minister can touch on the situation follow the introduction of the Health and Care Act 2022 , because there need to be more certainty in forward planning for hospice . there need to be multi - year contract to provide that certainty , especially give the cost pressure that hospice face . I draw my remark to a close by give additional thank to all the organisation throughout my constituency and north Hampshire that help fund my local hospice , whether through the Sherfield Oaks golf day or the moonlight walk around Basingstoke . I thank our local furniture store and the six shop — the list go on . People go above and beyond , give their time , money and energy to make sure that St Michael ' s hospice be at the heart of our community . I do not want to see that change , but I want the Minister ' s help to make sure that that fantastic organisation get support from the NHS when it need it , and certainty around funding . I congratulate the hon . member for Hastings and Rye ( Sally - Ann Hart ) , and for Darlington ( Peter Gibson ) , on secure this important debate , with cross - party support . the debate be a time for we to thank all the people who work in hospice in our local community . hospice have touch so many life in all our constituency . St Gemma ' s hospice in Leeds serve my community and have a special place in my heart because my grandma , mum and auntie all receive care there before pass away , and the staff do a fantastic job . it be 20 year ago last month that my mum pass away there . look at the St Gemma ' s hospice Twitter feed this evening , I see that a friend of mine , Liam Raftery , who be a fantastic musician in a Leeds band call the Latchicoes , pass away there at the age of just 30 in 2017 . I do not realise that it would have be his 37th birthday yesterday until I see the St Gemma ' s hospice Twitter feed . the work that hospice do touch all our life , and they do a fantastic job under incredibly difficult circumstance . St Gemma ' s care for over 300 people every day , and around 2 , 000 patient each year , but as we have hear from various speaker tonight , funding be a huge issue . St Gemma ' s funding from the NHS cover less than 30 % of the total hospice need , so we need core funding on a sustainable basis . St Gemma ' s hospice be budget for a deficit of over £ 500 , 000 in this financial year , which be why it have have a fundraising drive online over the last 48 hour . if people donate to St Gemma ' s hospice before 8 pm tonight , their donation would be match — in other word , it would be double . I be delighted to see that , due to the generosity of people in Leeds , the hospice more than exceed its target of raise £ 200 , 000 in just 48 hour . that show how value the hospice be in our community , as well as the generosity of local people . when I last go to St Gemma ' s hospice and meet the chief executive Kerry Jackson and her team , one of the thing they make clear , and be still make clear , be that fundraise drive in general be become hard and hard to do . that be because of the cost of living crisis . People want to give but they can not necessarily give as much as they use to . the people who run and work at St Gemma ' s hospice be clear that NHS funding be not sufficient . they say that it cover less than 30 % of the total hospice need , so we need to see a change . People have mention the independence of hospice , and that be important . we can not have a situation where the people work in and running hospice in some of the most stressful circumstance imaginable , at a crucial and painful time for those who be lose love one , be worry not only about how to care for people in the last moment of their life but about funding . would my hon . friend agree that the Government should provide an increase level of funding that be long - term sustainable to all child ' s hospice , include Claire House and Zoe ' s Place in Liverpool , West Derby , which provide magnificent and crucial support for everybody in West Derby and beyond who need it ? I thank my hon . friend for that intervention . he have speak to I before about the hospice in Liverpool and how they serve the people of West Derby , and he be correct to say that sustainable , reliable and sufficient funding be need — especially as we be see increase demand — if the hospice that member on both side of the Chamber have celebrate tonight be to continue to provide the service that be need by the people in our community . I want to end by say thank you to each and every person who work at St Gemma ' s hospice in Leeds , to the team who work there day in , day out , and also to the people in Leeds for their generosity . even in tough time , they be donate and raise money for St Gemma ' s hospice . long may it continue the fantastic work that it do , but we need to ensure that sufficient core funding be provide so that it can do that work more easily in the decade to come . I want to take advantage of tonight ' s debate to raise the specific issue of the North Devon hospice and its hospice to home service . when I last meet its excellent chief executive , Stephen Roberts , last October , he flag to I that the hospice be no long in a position to continue its non - commission service after the end of this financial year . at the time , he write to the then Secretary of State , my right hon . friend the Member for North East Cambridgeshire ( Steve Barclay ) , detail those concern . I instantly phone my hospital trust , because North Devon be home to the small hospital on the UK mainland and it already suffer with discharge issue and an overstretch A & e service . in February when I meet Dr Sarah Wollaston , the chair of the Devon integrate care board , I ask about the service and be assure that it be all fine and the money be be find . when this debate be announce — many thank to my hon . friend the Members for Hastings and Rye ( Sally - Ann Hart ) and for Darlington ( Peter Gibson ) for secure it — I contact Stephen Roberts at the end of the recess and say that I would like to check that this be all okay . he tell I that my email be timely because everything be not okay , despite have have endless meeting with the integrate care board . he ask I to share with the House tonight some of the email that he send back to the integrate care board follow a phone call with its new chief executive , in which he say : " thank you for your time yesterday . I think it would be prudent to summarise in an email where we have get to as there be nothing on paper or email that correspond to the discussion we have around your offer of £ 95k . as a summary as to where we stand today : North Devon Hospice ' s Hospice to Home Service be dedicate to support palliative patient who be at the ' end of life ' stage through : increase care at home , reduce unplanned / avoidable hospital admission , and expedite hospital discharge . " he go on to detail the 15 staff who deliver that vital service , which cost just £ 495 , 000 and which the North Devon Hospice charitable fund have cover for the last decade . he say : " North Devon Hospice ask for funding support of £ 157 , 540 which represent the same level of commission support as our bedded unit and community nursing team receive . Devon ICB have state that they be willing to provide £ 95k as a one off " before the next commission review period . but he say that the hospice have to state in return : " due to our year on year million - pound deficit , have fund the service for 10 year and prop up the cost of this service through cost management elsewhere in the organisation we be no long able to support the service which be at its minimum establishment to be able to operate . " the hospice have be advise the ICB of this for three year . my hon . friend illustrate one of the big single challenge for hospice at home . hospice at home relie on transport , which in an urban community can be deliver at a relatively small cost , but in a deeply rural constituency like hers , those cost need to be address and meet in order to deliver that care . do she agree that the funding model need to address the cost of transport and travel in rural constituency deliver a hospice at home service ? I could not agree with my hon . friend more . there be many element of healthcare , but the rurality of constituency like mine be not fully reflect in the funding settlement . my hospice request that the ICB find the additional £ 65 , 000 to get it through to the end of the year . the chief executive take this back to the board to see whether we could get that seven month of cover through . however , it have now be through a full board meeting and consultation , and this be where my email come in . he finish his email to the ICB by say : " I sincerely hope that the good faith you have ask of we extend to Devon ICB ' s good faith in find the extra £ 65k . " the email that he send to I at the end of the recess say that he meet the ICB chief executive , " and he ask for 8 more week to see if he can do something , no promise make . my Board meet last night where we agree to wait for his response before make any decision on the service . therefore , any pressure you can apply would be greatly appreciate . the headline be : ' have it really come to the point where we have to beg for £ 62k to stop 32 people die in an Emergency Room ? ' " that be four week ago , and the hospice have still hear nothing . our ICB be also in special measure . I beg the Minister to intervene and see if we can help our much - love hospice , as well as tackle the ever - grow issue we have with our integrate care board back home in Devon . the hospice to home service be hugely value by family and ensure that their love one can spend their final day at home , not in hospital . it also help by take the pressure off North Devon ' s much love , very small hospital . as it say across the shop back home in North Devon for our hospice , " your life be a story , and the end matter . " I very much hope that there be a way to secure the future of this hospice to home service to ensure that we have many other happy ending . I thank the hon . member for Hastings and Rye ( Sally - Ann Hart ) for set the scene so well , as well as all those who have make substantial contribution . hon . and right hon . member have be incredible in their joint effort to support hospice across this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , and I want to add my bit from a Northern Ireland perspective . there will be no member in this House who have not have some form of contact with hospice care , either through our role as member of Parliament or in a more personal nature , as many of we have . I will tell the House a quick story about that . we can not talk about hospice care without acknowledge the level of care that be provide by the world - class staff in hospice . every one of we know that , have deal with those who give that care . have see the work that they carry out and the compassion with which they do so , I know that it be certainly a calling , because money could not pay enough to deal with the emotional toll of this work . I know a lady who work as an occupational therapist in the national health service , and we get on quite well . she go on holiday to Greece one September , and she come back and go to the hospice . she be not feel well , and the doctor tell she that she have only four week to live — she have cancer of the liver . I remember go to see she at the Marie Curie hospice care headquarters on Knock Road , Belfast ; it be my first introduction to hospice care . I say to the girl on the desk , " would you tell Anne that I come to speak to she ? " and the lady say , " just a minute , and I ' ll go and see if she want to speak to you . " I say , " no , don ' t worry about that , because it ' s not important — just tell she I call . " I realise that day that Marie Curie hospice care be incredible , have see what it do for Anne and her family . as I say in my intervention on the hon . member for Hastings and Rye , I believe that faith and family be important whenever our heart be break and our world be fall apart . the Marie Curie hospice in Belfast make sure that people have faith to help they through those difficult time , which be important . from offer light - hearted banter while help people in embarrassing situation to be the scapegoat for anger or frustration , to be the last person to hold a person ' s hand when their family do not make it in time , be a care giver in a hospice be more than a job . from the bottom of my heart , and from the bottom of all our heart , I thank all those who do what most of we could not do — love and serve to people ' s last breath , day in and day out . I thank every healthcare attendant , every nurse , every doctor , every porter and every pharmacist , and the entire team who provide the good end of life care and offer a support system to lost and grieve family . the shop that do the fundraising for our hospice have be mention , but an unmentioned group of hero be the shop volunteer who provide a wonderful service in my constituency — a wonderful recycling service , as well — and fund for many of our hospice . that be good to remember . I will mention the volunteer . the hon . member for Walsall North ( Eddie Hughes ) be no long here , but he mention a sponsor walk and encourage the right hon . member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) to be involve . like the right hon . Gentleman , I could not run a marathon , and I probably could not walk it , but he and I could probably dander it — that be the third category . we be danderer . I could do 26 mile , but it would be at my own pace . I be sure everyone else would be on their way home whenever he and I cross the line — that be a story for another day . we can not pay hospice worker enough , but we have a responsibility to ensure that there be enough money to pay they . I do not feel we be currently do enough , as other member have say very clearly . the consensus be that we all want to see they pay well , and we want to see the care continue . Northern Ireland Hospice provide specialist palliative care for more than 4 , 000 infant , child and adult in Northern Ireland with life - limit condition . the charity , which include the only child ' s hospice in Northern Ireland , say that it face a number of challenge , " not least of which be the ever - grow cost of this service . government fund approximately 30 % of service cost " . the hon . member for Darlington ( Peter Gibson ) speak about Foyle hospice , which have to find 65 % of its service cost . well , every other hospice in Northern Ireland have to find 70 % , rely on the " goodwill and generosity of voluntary donation and other fundraising activity . " one thing that have not yet be bring out in any of the speech be the fact that a significant amount of the money that go to our hospice through their fundraising and charitable fundraising come in the form of legacy giving . that in itself , because of the size of estate and the value of property , create a postcode lottery . be that part of the problem ? could we use this debate to highlight legacy giving to hospice ? I understand the issue that the hon . Gentleman highlight , and I will speak about donation . the people of Northern Ireland be generous to a fault . understand Society datum suggest that londoner donate the most , with an annual average of £ 346 per donor . that be due to a handful of large donor , which I understand be the issue . People from Northern Ireland donate £ 344 a year to charity in all sector , not just hospice care , and last week ' s figure show that Northern Ireland donate more than anywhere else in the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland . Scotland , at £ 282 a year , and the south - east , at £ 270 a year , be the next high donor . I be proud that we in Northern Ireland be giver , but this have allow what be tantamount to an abdication of responsibility by those whose duty it be to see this care carry out . we all support the Marie Curie coffee morning . they be bun fest , which be not good for a diabetic . People make their donation and drink their tea or coffee . that be what it be about . it be not about what people get out of it ; it be about what they give . to I , the Macmillan coffee morning and Northern Ireland Hospice event should be about provide additional help , not provide the foundation of their funding . we and the Government must step up . People do not have great disposable income , so the coffee morning intend to raise money for a nurse raise less than half the amount need to pay for a nurse ' s pay increase . we can no long rely on public generosity to make the difference , and I therefore believe that we must step up and see hospice care not as a charitable extra but as an integral part of the NHS . that be what it need to be , otherwise we have fail . I be ever mindful of the seven - minute time limit , Madam Deputy Speaker . if we can not supply child ' s hospice place with specialised staff , we be fail , and we can not afford to accept failure . the Minister be a good lady , and she believe in hospice . I know she will respond positively , but I want to ascertain how we can do well for palliative care hospice , not in the next budget round but start here and now . there be a consensus on want it to happen , and I believe the Minister and the Government should ensure that it do . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) . I congratulate my hon . friend the Members for Hastings and Rye ( Sally - Ann Hart ) and for Darlington ( Peter Gibson ) on secure this incredibly important debate . member have be so positive in talk about the contribution of their local hospice , which ought to be regard as a very positive , uplifting thing , even though they sometimes have a negative association . when we speak about our hospice , we ought to reflect more on their huge positive contribution to the community . that be certainly the feeling I have have when visit Bolton Hospice , Wigan and Leigh Hospice and Derian House Children ' s Hospice . it be not just the institution themselves but the staff , include the doctor , the nurse and the volunteer — so many people make a positive contribution right across the organisation . that really drive the fundraising ; the vast majority of the hospice movement ' s funding be from the charitable sector , with people give of themselves because they believe in their local hospice . that be immensely important and we ought not to be challenge that relationship with the local community . that take we immediately on to the other aspect of the funding : the part that local authority and the NHS give . when we be go through a difficult time in the economy , it be more difficult for people to give money . some part of the country be wealthy and perhaps find it easy to donate to the local hospice , whereas other part of the country be poor and perhaps have be hit hard in recent year . Covid and the lockdown hugely disrupt the ability of hospice to fundraise . we hear of colleague do a marathon , skydive or undertake all sort of other activity that so many people around the country do to contribute to their local hospice , but such thing be not possible for such a long time . it take a while for coffee morning and so many other activity that hospice do to be organise again and for people to get back into that routine of come along to support their local community event . that be why it be especially important for national and local government , the NHS and , since 2022 , when the Health and Care Act 2022 put they on a statutory footing , the integrate care board to play their part — this be their responsibility . as be point out early , the icb not support the hospice movement in the way they ought to in the short term , because they be under immense financial pressure themselves , will create problem for the wide system . it will create problem for not only the hospice , but the local NHS if hospice can not continue in the short , medium and long - term to support their local community . a big question that have come out of this debate be about the NHS , which be immensely important , and something that be at the heart of the creation of the icb : the ability to have the right care for the community that be represent by the ICB . how do we bridge that divide between the NHS and that local responsibility of the ICB — how do we meet that challenge ? can the icb do this or do the Minister have to intervene ? it be a pleasure to speak in this debate , and I thank my hon . friend the Members for Hastings and Rye ( Sally - Ann Hart ) and for Darlington ( Peter Gibson ) , and indeed the Backbench Business Committee , for allow we time to debate this issue . we have hear some powerful contribution today . any of we with friend or family who have go through end of life care will know exactly how the hospice movement play such an important part in ensure that death be dignified and deal with properly , and that the wide family consideration be at the heart of the way in which hospice support people in that position . this be about not just the brick and mortar of those hospice , but their work in the community ; what they do in people ' s home ; how they offer domiciliary support ; and how with a good plan , agree between the various agency of our local health service , death can be dignify and an experience that be entirely fitting , bear in mind the obvious sensitivity that exist around this issue . we do not talk enough about death in modern society . we rightly talk a lot about sexuality and sex , but we seem to talk more about that than we do about death . the Victorians do it exactly the other way round , be obsess with death and never talk about sex . we need to get the balance right and talk frankly about death . as my hon . friend the Member for Darlington say , this evening be not a time to debate assist dying — assist suicide , as I would call it — but it be a time to talk not just about the invaluable contribution of hospice , but the future of our hospice movement and how we strike a balance between the need to maintain their independence , flexibility and character , which reflect the local community they serve , and the support that it be incumbent on the NHS and central Government to provide , especially in respect of commission clinical service . that be where the interplay come between the independent voluntary sector and those vital statutory service — the clinical one — that government have a duty to provide and the NHS have a duty to support . I be particularly lucky as the local hospice that serve Swindon and the north and east of Wiltshire be situate almost next door to where I live in my constituency , in Wroughton . Prospect Hospice be found in 1980 , and have grow and thrive due to the generosity and good will of our local community . some 30 % of its income come from fundraising appeal and activity . another 31 % come from profit make by its charity shop , which exist throughout the length and breadth of our area . we have many in Swindon ; in fact , a new one open in one of our shopping centre only a few month ago that be already do very well and serve its local community admirably . some 11 % of the income come from legacy gift . I be glad legacy gift be mention by my hon . friend the Member for Darlington ( Peter Gibson ) , because they be vital . together with other investment income , the amount raise in those way come to about 75 % , with about 25 % come from the statutory service provide by icb . we have all talk about the pressure of inflation , which be a reality for Prospect Hospice as well . cost have increase significantly and the sad challenge we have face in our hospice be that we have have to halve the number of bed , from 12 to six , and close the day therapy unit . that unit be invaluable . we very much miss the volunteer who work in it and the support it give people at end of life . in common with other hospice , covid wreak havoc on the fundraising ability of Prospect Hospice ; last year , it be leave with a shortfall of just over £ 1 million . with the good will in the world , it be get very difficult to make up that shortfall . this debate be important not just for Prospect Hospice , but for Julia ' s House , the child ' s hospice serve Wiltshire and Dorset , base in Devizes , which I visit very often . I know the benefit for child who be my constituent . in this debate , we be talk not just about fundraise effort , but about the involvement of volunteer in the service . such involvement bring huge fulfilment and allow many thousand of people to make a difference by offer their time and talent . none of we want to lose that , but a sense of reality be need on the funding of commission service . there be no doubt that the Government have move in the right direction — we have move league in the last 10 or so year . the support that the Government give to the hospice movement during covid be admirable . the introduction of the statutory duty , which we see for the first time in the Health and Care Act 2022 , be a signal moment when the hospice movement come of age , and end of life and palliative care be recognise , quite rightly , as an integral part of the way in which we provide and commission healthcare in this country . my local ICB have set up an end of life alliance , which be good . however , more work need to be do to ensure that the come together of service around patient — client — result in an avoidance of duplication , rather than the other way around . we need an acknowledgment that without hospice , such as Prospect Hospice , we will fail thousand of people who have come to rely upon this invaluable service . there be much more that I could say . I pray in aid the excellent submission and remark make by right hon . and hon . friend and Members . we be make a unified clarion call that we want to see our hospice movement thrive . that can not happen without the input of Government and local health service . I welcome today ' s debate on this very important issue . I congratulate my hon . friend the Members for Hastings and Rye ( Sally - Ann Hart ) and for Darlington ( Peter Gibson ) on secure this excellent debate . everyone should receive appropriate and dignified care , personalise to their individual need , as they approach the end of their life . hospice be central to deliver that care , include loros hospice for adult , base in Leicester West , which provide care to my terminally ill adult constituent , and the fantastic Rainbows hospice for baby , child and young people , locate in my Loughborough constituency . since become an MP , I have visit rainbow hospice on a number of occasion and see at first hand the professionalism and dedication of its staff , who provide the high level of care to around 300 of the estimate 1 , 739 child and young people with life - limit condition in Leicester , Leicestershire , and Rutland , as well as their family . rainbow also care for hundred more baby , child and young people with serious and terminal condition across the wide east midland area , provide support at its hospice in Loughborough , as well as in local hospital and at home . rainbow be particularly concerned about the access of child and family to round - the - clock end of life care at home , provide by nurse and support by advice from consultant paediatrician specially train in paediatric palliative medicine . I be tell that only a third of local area in England be meet the require standard in this area . rainbow have inform I that in Leicester , Leicestershire and Rutland there be no 24 - hour end of life care available at home , other than that base on goodwill provision from the Diana team . therefore , in October 2023 rainbow launch its hospice at home service , which it provide jointly with community nursing team . however , there be no paediatric palliative consultant across the east midland and no funding available to support this essential service . as such , Rainbows be currently pay for remote support from a consultant in another region . rainbow also fund two clinical nursing specialist work at the Leicester Royal Infirmary . in addition , it provide paediatric palliative care single point of contact , which be a pilot and be currently fund by the Paediatric Palliative Care Network , although the future of this funding be not guarantee . furthermore , rainbow provide end of life care , symptom control and short break at its hospice in Loughborough . its therapist offer support in the hospital , and provide ongoing bereavement support to family . I be tell that in 2024 - 25 it will cost rainbow £ 12 . 1 million to provide its service . over the same period it will receive roughly £ 1 . 7 million in statutory funding , which work out to be around 14 % of its cost — enough to keep it open for only seven week . it will also receive £ 99 , 000 from Leicester , Leicestershire and Rutland integrate care board and £ 1 . 4 million from the child ' s hospice grant for all five county . this income total £ 3 . 2 million , leave a shortfall of £ 8 . 9 million , which rainbow have to try to find itself . furthermore , although rainbow have be tell that it will receive the child ' s hospice grant for 2024 - 25 , the ICB have still not confirm whether it will receive the funding in subsequent year . together for short life have also highlight that , while icb and hospice be now clear about their process for distribute the grant — thank to the confirmation from the government — it still remain unclear when and how hospice will receive the funding from icb and to what extent NHS England will hold icb to account in ensure that the money be pay out . as a result , at the moment hospice do not have the reassurance of a long - term NHS funding plan , so I seek clarification from the Minister on those point . although Rainbows be fantastic at fundraise , its current position be simply not sustainable , particularly give that the number of child with life - limit or life - threaten condition be increase . if we restrict the service that existing hospice provide by not support they with adequate funding , the provision will have to be find elsewhere , and responsibility will likely fall on the state . I therefore encourage the Government and NHS England to accept together for short life ' recommendation to review child ' s palliative care funding go forward and to fill the £ 295 million annual gap in NHS spending on child ' s palliative care in 2024 - 25 . this should either be meet centrally by maintain ringfence NHS England funding beyond 2024 - 25 , or by set out a framework under which icb be require to provide sustainable funding . if urgent action be not take , I share rainbow ' concern that more seriously ill child and their family will be deny choice and control over their palliative and end of life care . in conclusion , I ask the Minister not to change a single atom of LOROS hospice or rainbow child ' s hospice , because they both provide excellent care . however , I urge she please to work alongside they as much she can and to get the icb , in particular , to deliver on the funding that be mention early in the debate . thank you for call I to speak , Madam Deputy Speaker . I will not take up too much of your time . I thank my hon . friend the Members for Hastings and Rye ( Sally - Ann Hart ) and for Darlington ( Peter Gibson ) for organise and secure this very important debate ; I be hugely grateful that they have do so . it be clear from the amount of people who have take part in the debate that hospice be hold in great affection not only in our heart , but in the heart of our constituent , both on the Isle of Wight and across the country . clearly they be a comfort in time of extraordinary difficulty and death , not only for those who be die but for their family . these be very difficult time , and hospice provide succour , professional support and , probably above all , love and comfort . on the Island we have the Mountbatten hospice . I know that my hon . friend the Member for Eastleigh ( Paul Holmes ) speak about Mountbatten . I will develop some of point he make and echo they . the Mountbatten hospice in Newport be one of our most cherished institution on the Island . I thank all the people who work there and support it for the fantastic work that they do care for people on the Isle of Wight . I pay special tribute to the head of our hospice , Nigel Hartley , one of the most impressive people we have on the Island and one of my favourite Islanders . he be a concert pianist before he start look after people in the London Lighthouse clinic in the relatively early day of the AIDS pandemic . he learn to care for people at that time before move eventually to the Island , and bring a unique sense of occasionally eccentric but organised , highly competent and very love leadership to that institution . we be hugely lucky to have somebody like Nigel . on the hospice ' s behalf , I will raise a few issue and get some clarity from the Minister . I know that I be not the only one say that , but for Back Benchers there be clearly strength in number . many of the issue that I will raise have be raise already , but I want to put they on the record . I do not want the NHS to take over hospice . we need to respect the charitable status of our hospice because it give they strength . they be so directly relate to and engage in our community , but we do need the NHS to pay its way in relation to our hospice . in the last two year , the Mountbatten hospice on the Isle of Wight and in Eastleigh have have cash increase from the NHS of under 2 % , if I understand the figure correctly , and under 3 % . their cost increase have be much high . we be put our hospice under very considerable financial pressure , so we be have to dig deeply into fundraising or look at way of make cut . that be not acceptable . we be not ask for the NHS to step in , but we be ask for the NHS to pay its way and , if it be use hospice , to give they sufficient funding . otherwise , the burden of look after the NHS ' s responsibility , for want of a well term , be fall heavily on folk in the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Eastleigh and on the Island . we have our major fundraiser for the Isle of Wight Mountbatten hospice on 12 May . walk the Wight be a fantastic event . last year it raise £ 460 , 000 , but run a hospice be expensive and when it be deal with below - inflation increase from our ICB , that be problematic . I will raise one other issue . my hon . friend the Member for Eastleigh and I have two conversation with the ICB last week , one on the Isle of Wight Mountbatten hospice and the Eastleigh Mountbatten hospice , and the other a share conversation with Hampshire colleague about the work of the ICB . it be in special measure . we be tell that somehow that be a very good thing . clearly there be pressure on its expenditure and budget , and its management decision in relation to that budget . I be concerned that when icb be in special measure , cut funding to hospice — as oppose to acute service , which be hugely expensive — and potentially to primary care be see as a quick win . yet effective spending on primary care actually ease pressure on acute service , as do effective spending on hospice . it be about the NHS pay its way ; I be not talk about it take over the system . give a little more funding — near inflation increase — to hospice enable they to perform a hugely important moral and medical duty not only to those who be die but to their family . hospice not only support people in the hospice ; increasingly now my Mountbatten hospice — I suspect this the same for the hospice in Eastleigh — look after people as they near death in their own home . on behalf of my hospice , I ask that we ensure that the ICB cover Hampshire and the Isle of Wight be do its job effectively and properly . I think it fair to say , without be ungenerous towards those people , that some of we have concern about some of the decision be make . can we ensure that the ICB be manage its affair well and that , in so do , it be give support to hospice both in Eastleigh and in Newport and the Isle of Wight ? our hospice , the Mountbatten hospice , so badly need it . it be a pleasure to contribute to the debate . I note that Dorset be well represent , as my constituency neighbour and hon . friend the Member for South Dorset ( Richard Drax ) be also here . there be few charity more cherish by people in West Dorset than Weldmar Hospicecare . the Weldmar hospice in Dorchester must be one of the most — if not the most — respected and cherish hospice in Dorset as a whole . Most of my constituent will have have a family member or know someone whom Weldmar have look after at the end of their life . that be why the hospice be so dearly love not just in Dorchester or West Dorset , but across the county . the Weldmar nurse look after my aunt in her final day some 15 year ago , and I be eternally grateful to they for all that they do for she and continue to do for friend of people I know , not just in the Dorchester hospice but through the community nursing team . Weldmar be Dorset ' s large independent charity , and it have provide specialist end of life care since 1994 . over the past three decade it have look after 24 , 882 patient , both in the community and in its specialist in - patient unit in Dorchester . the care be free of charge , and last year alone 1 , 745 family benefit from Weldmar ' s vital care and support . that be undoubtedly why the community feel so passionately about our hospice and , with it , the innovation and fundraise success of the incredible Weldmar team . however , as be the case for many hospice , in order to sustain itself and keep its service run , Weldmar need to raise £ 27 , 200 every single day , on top of its NHS income . in January 2024 the APPG on hospice and end of life care publish its " government funding for hospice " report . it find that , despite statutory guidance , " ICB commission of hospice service be currently not fit for purpose " , and the value that the service provide individual and the wide health system be " at risk . " the Government announce additional funding for hospice during the coronavirus pandemic , and in a Westminster Hall debate on 17 January this year my hon . friend the Minister set out the wide financial support available to hospice , include the energy bill discount scheme , eligibility for a reduction in vat from 20 % to just 5 % , and the £ 1 . 5 billion of additional funding that NHS England release in 2022 to provide integrate care board with support for inflation . it be my opinion that palliative and end of life care need to be give much great priority — as it have in many other area — in the integrate care partnership strategy . we want to ensure not only that we sustain Weldmar and other provision long into the future , but that we consider and support more end of life care . place such as Lyme Regis , where travel to a hospice be long , would greatly benefit from additional provision . in summary , I be contribute to the debate so that it be know and understand that we in West Dorset can not speak highly enough of our hospice ; we value the Weldmar team so much . I ask the Minister and the Government to give consideration to the matter that we have be debate this evening . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Hastings and Rye ( Sally - Ann Hart ) and my hon . friend the Member for Darlington ( Peter Gibson ) — who be sit beside I — on secure this debate , and it be a pleasure to follow my hon . friend the Member for West Dorset ( Chris Loder ) . I start by thank all those who work in hospice ; they do a remarkable job , and we should be very grateful for all they do . in 2003 , when I be report for BBC South today , I be send to the official opening of Julia ' s House in Corfe Mullen , Dorset . little do I know that the first person I would meet there be my mother , who sadly die in 2019 . her instinct for caring and compassion draw she to that remarkable hospice for child like a moth to a flame . I be immediately strike by the wonderful environment that the dedicated staff have create : a desperately need service to provide practical and emotional support to family care for a child with a life - limit or life - threaten condition be bear . Julia ' s House be one of more than 200 adult and child hospice that care for and support about 3 , 000 patient a year . they work hand in hand with local health and care service , take the pressure off the NHS . as we have hear , hospice be mainly fund through charity : on average , around two third of the income for adult service be raise through fundraising . alarmingly , for child , that figure be four fifth . in 2022 , for the first time , as we have hear , the Health and Care Act introduce a legal duty for integrated care board to commission palliative care service that meet the need of the local population . however , a recent report by the APPG on hospice and end of life care , co - chair by my hon . friend the Member for Darlington — again , we have hear this in the Chamber , but I make no apology for repeat what colleague have say — find that despite that legal requirement , funding from icb vary significantly across the country . today , the sector be under significant financial pressure : Hospice UK estimate that the sector be on track for a £ 77 million deficit for the 2024 financial year . nowhere be that pressure more real than at Julia ' s House . its chief executive , Martin Edwards , say that over 90 % of its annual running cost be meet by fundraise ; the Government ' s contribution remain low , at only 8 % . that over - reliance on people ' s generosity — which be enormous — will see Julia ' s House face a budget deficit of £ 1 million this year . [ interruption . ] if SNP Members could refrain , I would be grateful . this dire situation be exacerbate by the ending this year of a share grant of £ 25 million from NHS England . at its two site , Julia ' s House care for 176 family across Dorset and Wiltshire . Mr Edwards say that it be cope with child with more complex need , require more staff and put more pressure on budget . the care provide be intensive , with a family be support for up to five year follow the death of a child . as one might imagine , palliative care come with all kind of issue , not least medical , emotional and financial . who do you turn to for help and advice ? how do the patient wish to be care for ? who support the carer ? this be where a remarkable charity , Lewis - Manning Hospice Care , come into play . its chief executive , Clare Gallie , tell I that its team come to the patient ' s home and , in effect , respond to the need of the patient and their family by signpost they to relevant service , from treatment to transport . importantly , it be the need of the patient that be most significant : for example , if their wish be to die at home , everything possible be do to ensure that that happen . importantly , this free service be proactive rather than reactive , anticipate what the patient and the family want , reduce crisis at the end of life , and save the NHS a lot of money by free up GPs ' time and negate the need for a hospital . a pilot scheme be run in a part of Dorset have already save the NHS £ 140 , 000 in April alone . imagine if this scheme be roll out across the country ; it would save the NHS million . let I conclude . there be no doubt that there be a need for more Government funding for hospice , independent — fiercely so — as they be , but the funding disparity , as we have hear from virtually every speaker , must be look at . yes , I hear the Government say that this be another call for money and there be many other demand , but well - fund hospice care would safeguard this very effective and necessary sector , which can not live on charity alone , and nor should it . I congratulate my hon . friend the Members for Hastings and Rye ( Sally - Ann Hart ) and for Darlington ( Peter Gibson ) on so ably lead this debate and set the scene . while it be important to recognise the great work do across the eastern region by East Anglia ' s child ' s hospice , in the Great Yarmouth and Waveney area , as represent my right hon . friend the Member for Great Yarmouth ( Sir Brandon Lewis ) and I , there be at present a hospice vacuum . throughout the rest of Suffolk and Norfolk , there be locally base hospice well embed in and provide great service for their community . the good news be that plan be be carefully prepare to fill this vacuum and this void . a local partnership be evolve to build a local hospice lead by St Elizabeth hospice , include the local NHS , council , a community interest company , volunteer and fundraiser . for it to be successful , to open the hospice and then to run it , the national Government must join this partnership , and I hope my hon . friend the Minister , who be currently not in her place , will in she sum up accept this invitation . the Waveney and Great Yarmouth area desperately need a hospice . we have an age population and pocket of deprivation , and as Chris Whitty have highlight , there be acute health inequality in coastal community that a hospice can help level out and remove . as I have mention , a well - research case for the hospice have now be prepare , though it be important to recognise the work do by so many over the year in support those in need of end of life care and their family — from the late Margaret Chadd , who found East Coast hospice and have the vision of build a hospice on land buy at Gorleston , to Roberta Lovick , who found the Louise Hamilton Centre , from which such great support be provide to patient with life - limit condition and their family ; the James Paget University Hospital , where the Louise Hamilton Centre be base ; and East Coast Community Healthcare , the Lowestoft - base community interest company that , in partnership with St Elizabeth , operate six specialist bed in Beccles Hospital , as well as provide care both in people ' s home and in care home . build on the work of these local people and organisation , a framework be emerge through which a local hospice can be build . the cornerstone of this be , as we have hear , the Health and Care Act 2022 , which set out the legal requirement for icb to commission palliative and end of life care . the Norfolk and Waveney ICB have respond by carry out a review of palliative and end of life care . this be complete last autumn , and it highlight the need for nine urgent and six medium to long - term action . last March , St Elizabeth hospice merge with East Coast hospice , and straightaway set about conduct a feasibility study into the viability of build up hospice facility on the Gorleston site . the study have just be complete , and the conclusion reach be that a hospice should be build in stage . expression of interest be now be invite from architect . that be an exciting landmark for which so many people have strive for many year . St Elizabeth be confident that it can successfully fundraise for a hospice capital appeal , but it be for the ongoing revenue cost of provide core clinical service for a full in - patient unit , as well as outreach community service , that national Government support be require . the Norfolk and Waveney ICB — indeed , all icb — need central Government support and a fundamental rebalancing of national policy , so that they can meet the project growth in demand for palliative care . it be good news that after so many false dawn over so many year we now have a coherent and well think - through plan for fill the hospice void in the Waveney and Great Yarmouth area , but while we should be sanguine , we should also be realistic . we be not even at the starting point of the rest of England , as we have hear from other colleague who have a hospice up and run — we do not . that be why the Government need to join the partnership that have evolve , and support Norfolk and Waveney ICB so that it can commission hospice service on a long - term , multi - year basis . I urge the Government to join we on that exciting journey . I call Steve Double . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker — it be become a bit of a habit for I to be the warm - up act for the wind - up , although I gather I will not get that honour this evening . it be a great privilege to speak in this debate , with heartfelt contribution from across the House , and I congratulate my hon . friend the Members for Hastings and Rye ( Sally - Ann Hart ) and for Darlington ( Peter Gibson ) on secure it . Most of we hope we never need to experience hospice at first hand , but when we do experience they because a love one need their care and support , we realise how important and valuable they be . I be incredibly proud and privileged to have two exceptional hospice in my constituency . Mount Edgcumbe hospice , which be part of Cornwall Hospice Care , be open in 1980 and be Cornwall ' s first hospice . it have recently be rate as outstanding by the Care Quality Commission , which highlight the caring and personal nature of the service provide by the staff , who be responsive to the need of the patient . I do not need the CQC to tell I that . indeed , my family and I know that first hand , because back in 2007 my mother die from cancer at Mount Edgcumbe hospice . she lose her second battle with breast cancer , and the care and support that we receive as a family be outstanding . I place on record my huge thank to they . I be also greatly privileged to have Little Harbour , which be part of child ' s Hospice South West in my constituency . it open in 2011 , and its state - of - the - art facility be some of the very good in any child ' s hospice in the country . have visit a number of time , I can testify that the atmosphere there be truly amazing , and one can not help but be move by the place . it support child and young people up to the age of 21 , include the young baby who need its care . the CQC praise the staff for their personalised care and support . that reinforce the important point that it be not just about the brick and mortar or equipment that the hospice provide ; it be the staff and volunteer who work there who make our hospice the amazing place they be . we be lucky in mid - Cornwall to have those two excellent example out of some 200 hospice across the country . both be support by amazing people — volunteer , fundraiser and donor — who play such an important part in ensure that those hospice can continue . it be not just about the care that the hospice provide to the people who be sick ; we have hear many time in the Chamber today about the wraparound care that hospice provide to family and friend , which be so important and valuable . my hon . friend be make a moving and powerful speech , and he make I recall my experience at Chestnut Tree House , which provide hospice care for child across Sussex . it be strive hard to meet all the demand on service . one group that we have not mention be those who the hospice may yet reach . it know that many more family would benefit from its care , and it be work hard on that . have my hon . Friend also find that in his constituency ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for that intervention ; she make precisely the point that I be come to . it be clear that there will be a grow need for hospice care in our country . we feel that incredibly acutely in Cornwall ; our elderly population have grow by more than 50 % in the past 10 year . Cornwall be at the point where almost one in four of our population be over 70 year old . that proportion will only grow in the year ahead , and it will simply mean that there be more demand for hospice care in our country . that be why it be so important that hospice care be properly fund . I believe that it be good for our hospice to stay in the independent sector as charity . they gain most of their support from the public ; I have see that time and again for the two hospice in my constituency . be independent from the NHS give they a special place in our community . People feel a great connection to they . they feel that they have a personal stake in the work that hospice do , particularly if they engage in fundraise for they . I fear that that would be lose if hospice be effectively nationalise . it be so important for our hospice that we continue that situation . however , the Government need to well recognise the important role that hospice play . we have hear several time about the postcode lottery for NHS funding for our hospice . I tell the Minister that we need to address that . Cornwall Hospice Care , I be tell , have the second low funding of any hospice charity in the country . just 9 % of its funding come from the NHS , which mean that 91 % be raise through fundraising , donation and legacy . that can not be right . I be all for donation play a significant part in the funding of hospice , but the NHS should step up , particularly in Cornwall , and provide more funding to our hospice . we need to look at regional variation . funding must be base on need for hospice facility in each region . I urge the Minister and the Government to look at what more can be do to provide a level playing field on NHS contribution to our hospice . we have all hear that the past few year have be difficult for our hospice , with the grow pressure of rise cost and demand . one thing we could do for the hospice sector be provide more certainty about fund through multi - year funding settlement , so that hospice can plan far well , and at least know what funding be come from the NHS . with that certainty , they could plan accordingly . in sum up , I place on record my huge thank to those in every hospice in our country for the incredible work that they do — to the pay staff , the volunteer and the fundraiser . they work so hard , and be so generous in provide this vital service to our community , particularly the two hospice in my constituency . there have be real consensus across the House this evening . although we value and celebrate all the work that hospice do , more need to be do to provide they with fair funding , so that they can continue to play a vital role for our community . I be humble to be call in the debate . I commend my hon . friend the Members for Hastings and Rye ( Sally - Ann Hart ) , and for Darlington ( Peter Gibson ) , for bring the debate to the House , as well as the Minister for sit through the debate and show amazing resilience during a long evening . member who have speak in the debate fall into broadly two camp . first , there be those who have have personal experience of hospice through family member who have suffer and need those facility . their speech have come across amazingly , with real pathos and depth , and I commend all hon . member who have speak so personally about their journey . secondly , there be member like I who have not have personal experience of hospice but recognise the importance of what they do . if I may , I will talk about two important hospice for my constituency . Thames hospice — it be first know as Thames Valley hospice — be officially open by her Majesty the Queen in November 1987 on Hatch Lane in Windsor . it have be serve my constituent and other in Berkshire since that time , and have show amazing strength of character in support so many people . with the Minister in her place , I contend that , as we have hear numerous time , we need to refine the funding model for hospice . in my view , the NHS need to cough up a bit more support , but this be also about timing . Thames hospice be await its funding settlement for 2024 - 25 from the ICB , with barely two week to go , so the issue be how much can be fund by the taxpayer , and about be notify of fund up front . that be really important , because it mean that hospice can plan ahead for the year . Thames hospice , have provide care for all that time , be in 2017 grant planning permission to build a new £ 22 million , state - of - the - art facility on a brand - new 8 acre site by Bray lake , just outside Maidenhead in the Royal Borough of Windsor and Maidenhead . that be important , because through the ICB , it serve many constituent in the east of Berkshire , include in Bracknell . I know of many constituent who have have fantastic care there . in January 2019 , work begin on construction . I visit early last year , when the site have be build . it be incredible , with so many fantastic staff , a caf é and dedicated service . Thames hospice support about 2 , 500 patient and their love one annually with high - quality medical and emotional support . this be all about make people ' s live easy , and make sure that their remain time on earth be as dignified as possible . we should not underestimate or put a price or value on that . that be why we have a responsibility to fund hospice care properly . as for the future , by 2030 , 15 million people in the UK will be over 65 year old . also , the number of young people with life - limit neurological condition have increase by 64 % in the last 10 year , and the incidence of cancer in people under the age of 50 rise by 79 % between 1990 and 2019 . we should think about that . those be really serious figure , and they mean that the demand for hospice service be likely only to increase over time . in the past year , cost at Thames hospice have increase by 9 % , with no commensurate increase in Government funding . we have hear something similar from other hon . member this evening . to put a figure on it , Thames hospice have to raise £ 38 , 000 every day to subsidise the cost of care . that will increase to more than £ 50 , 000 a day by 2030 , base on a 4 % increase , year on year — and that be without even consider investment for growth in the future . the picture be similar elsewhere . to put it in perspective , Thames hospice need £ 18 . 5 million for 2 , 500 people every year . that be really stark . as I mention , Thames hospice be the end of life care provider for the Frimley integrate care board in east Berkshire . it be of direct relevance to my constituent . I can not thank the staff and the director at Thames hospice enough for what they do . I want to mention Sebastian ' s Action Trust in Crowthorne , which be important because it provide palliative care for child age between zero and 18 and support their family . a key part of the support that the brilliant Sebastian ' s Action Trust provide be memory - make support for the family who use the facility . it also continue to support the family once the child go to end of life care . lose a child be devastating anyway , but the fact that Sebastian ' s Action Trust provide such brilliant support to family , even after that life event , be remarkable . on the issue of funding for child ' s palliative care , I be fortunate to have , in my neck of the wood in West Yorkshire , the forget I not child ' s hospice and the Kirkwood hospice . I also want to highlight the Together for short life campaign ask , as other member have do . the issue be not just sustainable funding , but surety of funding — a multi - year promise and confirmation of funding beyond ' 24 - 25 , so that child ' s hospice can plan for the future , and continue care for child with life - limit illness and their family . I thank my hon . friend for his timely intervention . as we know , palliative care be privately fund and not formally fund by the NHS . it can not be right that such an important function be fund in a hand - to - mouth way . to prove that point , Sebastian ' s Action Trust be to close its Crowthorne site , the Woodlands , later this year . a sale be expect in autumn 2024 , because it can not afford the care that it be give to so many family , so it have to rationalise its estate and move elsewhere . in my humble view , the funding for the NHS , for our hospice and for palliative care be not enough . my hon . friend be make a powerful case for the hospice movement , as all colleague have do in this debate . do he agree that every penny that the Government give to the hospice movement take pressure off the national health service ? hospice be do the job that , otherwise , the NHS would have to do . will he join I in congratulate the Saint Francis hospice in the village Havering - atte - Bower in my constituency , which be establish in 1975 ? it have for many year serve people from the London Borough of Havering and the surround area . it be a magnificent organisation . the hospice movement do a fantastic job for the entire country , and it be time for the Government to do more . I commend all the staff in the Saint Francis hospice in Havering on what they do . it sound remarkable . we have hear so many story this evening of hospice and palliative care provider right across the country . the message be clear : we need more funding . we must establish well funding model . we can not rely so much on charity and donation . we must make sure that funding be provide up front . this be a life - and - death issue . hospice take pressure off the NHS . the facility at Thames hospice be state of the art ; we can sweat the asset an awful lot more . perhaps the underused capacity of hospice could sometimes be hire back to the NHS . I want to make one final point in this final Back - Bencher contribution to the debate . many people have call for multi - year funding settlement . that be not to make life easy for the hospice ; it be just more sensible , so that they can plan into the future — sign lease , buy equipment , and train , recruit and retain staff . the request for multi - year funding settlement will allow they to put plan in place to provide the care that be need . I thank my hon . friend and I agree completely . nobody can plan in a vacuum , so this be about more money , early money and the ability to plan so we know where the delta be . I will conclude now . Madam Deputy Speaker , thank you for the opportunity to speak this evening . we need more money , Minister , and I know you will give it to we . I call the SNP spokesperson . I congratulate the hon . member for Hastings and Rye ( Sally - Ann Hart ) and for Darlington ( Peter Gibson ) on secure the debate and bring this vital issue to the Floor of the House after a series of Westminster Hall and other debate . in the context of the spring Budget , at the start of a new financial year and with a general election on the horizon , this be an incredibly timely debate . it also coincide with the publication of Hospice UK ' s report , which estimate a deficit across the UK hospice sector of £ 77 million , and for Scotland of around £ 16 million , for the financial year 2023 - 24 — perhaps the bad financial outturn for the sector in nearly 20 year . the same report suggest an 11 % increase in payroll cost to hospice , represent around £ 130 million . People who work in hospice have every right to expect a decent competitive salary that allow they to ensure that their own household be safe and warm , but that be a challenge be drive by the wide cost of living crisis , which be itself have an effect on the hospice . heating , food , drink and other consumable be not discretionary expenditure . hospice must run 24 hour a day , seven day a week . they have to maintain a comfortable temperature . they have to provide nutritious , high - quality food . all that come at a time , as the hon . member for Bracknell ( James Sunderland ) just say , when the demand for such wonderful care have perhaps never be high . People be live long and die at later age . that mean an ever - great need for palliative care . the Office for National Statistics estimate that in Scotland an additional 10 , 000 people a year might be expect to seek access to palliative care by 2040 . we have hear some very move individual testimony from member across the House . the hon . member for Coventry North East ( Colleen Fletcher ) , for West Dorset ( Chris Loder ) and for Leeds East ( Richard Burgon ) all speak of personal experience of the hospice movement . the hon . member for Birmingham , Erdington ( Mrs Hamilton ) make some very worthwhile point about hospice be a place where people can really live the final day of their life . the hon . member for Eastleigh ( Paul Holmes ) have be very passionate about the issue for reason he explain about his former chief of staff . we echo the condolence that have be pay . I be incredibly grateful for the love and care show to my good friend Melanie , who pass away in the Highland hospice just over a year ago . I be proud to be one of the runner yesterday in the London marathon in her memory and in aid of that hospice . I congratulate the hon . member for Walsall North ( Eddie Hughes ) and for Enfield , Southgate ( Bambos Charalambous ) , who run for their local hospice , and the hon . and learn Member for Eddisbury ( Edward Timpson ) and the hon . member for Colchester ( Will Quince ) , who also take part in the debate and run for other worthy cause . I understand that in a few week ' time , the hon . member for Lancaster and Fleetwood ( Cat Smith ) will take part in the 40 - mile Keswick to Barrow walk through the Lake district in aid of St John ' s hospice in Lancashire . I pay tribute to the work of the Marie Curie hospice in Glasgow , which have provide care at the end for other friend , particularly some I have know through the SNP . in recent week , close friend have have reason to be grateful to everyone at St Vincent ' s hospice in Renfrewshire in very sad and difficult time . those personal experience be what help to inspire the incredible generosity that allow the hospice movement to continue its work . as we have hear , around two third of adult hospice income come from voluntary fundraising . at the same time , the Sue Ryder charity estimate that the hospice sector actively save the NHS nearly £ 600 million a year by free up bed space , or even avoid hospital admission in the first place . the hon . member for South Dorset ( Richard Drax ) give some example of exactly how that can work . from all the evidence we have hear today , it seem that the current model for hospice funding be increasingly unsustainable . some have even use the word " existential " . Healthcare be devolve , so it be not for the Scottish National party to determine how the Minister or her shadow on the Opposition Front Bench prioritise their spending decision , but if the UK Government be to find new or additional funding for the hospice sector in England , that would have consequential for the budget available to Scotland ' s Government . the current 2024 - 25 budget for Scotland provide over £ 19 . 5 billion for NHS recovery , health and social care , which be a real - term uplift despite the austerity we be face . the Scottish Government have also establish a new strategy steering group to oversee the development and delivery of a new palliative and end of life care strategy and associate work programme . that work aim to ensure that everyone in Scotland receive well co - ordinate , timely and high - quality palliative care , care around death , and bereavement support base on their need and preference , include support for family and carer , to ensure that Scotland be a place where people and community can come together to support each other , take action and talk openly about plan ahead , serious illness , dying , death and bereavement . there be other action that the UK Government could take that would continue to help hospice across these island . energy cost remain stubbornly high , but the Government be bring many of their energy support scheme to an end . as I say early , energy be a fix cost for hospice , not an area in which saving can readily be make . in this context , the hon . member for Darlington speak about the situation of Ardgowan in Inverclyde . many of the reform to the energy market and energy price support that the SNP and other have call for would make a difference in the hospice sector , as in many other part of the economy and society . regrettably , the Government ' s approach to immigration be also have an impact . how many nurse , doctor and other specialist have arrive in the UK — some , perhaps , on small boat or by other irregular mean — but have be deny the opportunity to work ? how many more be not even come in the first place now that the Government have decide that they can not bring family member , or be massively increase the cost and threshold for visa applicant ? how many might have come from Europe , or might have stay , have it not be for Brexit ? every country in the world be have to face up to the legacy of covid and the impact of conflict in Ukraine and elsewhere , but the UK Government have be make deliberate policy choice in many of these area that be exacerbate those challenge rather than mitigate they , and the impact of that could have long - term consequence . if the hospice sector do have to make radical saving and scale back service provision , the cost of palliative care and support people at the end of life will still have to be meet ; they will just have to be meet elsewhere , which could mean increase cost for the NHS , for social service or , bad still , for individual family and household — not just in financial term , but in emotional and psychological term — if they be deny that support at the end . People will always want to give and to raise fund for hospice , but if we want collectively to be able to rely on hospice to be there for individual and family when they be need most , we can not expect the hospice movement simply to rely on the good will and effort of voluntary fundraiser . a number of important suggestion have be make during this debate , in the motion , and in the evidence give by hospice themselves and by the all - party parliamentary group about how the Government can put the sector on a more sustainable footing for the future . I hope that the Minister will be able respond positively , in the spirit of consensus that we have observe this evening , and that the Government will work with their counterpart and with service provider across the United Kingdom to ensure that the hospice sector be give the support that it need so that everyone who work for hospice can focus on what they do good , and continue to provide love and care for those who need it at the end of their life . it be a pleasure to respond to the debate . we have have a very thorough discussion over the past few hour , so let I start by thank not only the Backbench Business Committee for grant the time for we to debate this important issue — albeit a week later than most of we have expect — but the hon . member for Hastings and Rye ( Sally - Ann Hart ) and for Darlington ( Peter Gibson ) for secure the debate ; I congratulate they on their speech . I thank my hon . friend the Members for Enfield , Southgate ( Bambos Charalambous ) , for Coventry North East ( Colleen Fletcher ) , for Birmingham , Erdington ( Mrs Hamilton ) , for Hammersmith ( Andy Slaughter ) and for York Central ( Rachael Maskell ) , my right hon . friend the Member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) and my hon . friend the Member for Leeds East ( Richard Burgon ) , as well as the hon . member for Colchester ( Will Quince ) , for Southport ( Damien Moore ) and for Eastleigh ( Paul Holmes ) , the hon . and learn Member for Eddisbury ( Edward Timpson ) , the right hon . member for Basingstoke ( Dame Maria Miller ) , the hon . member for North Devon ( Selaine Saxby ) and for Bolton West ( Chris Green ) , the right hon . and learn Member for South Swindon ( Sir Robert Buckland ) , the hon . member for Loughborough ( Jane Hunt ) , for Isle of Wight ( Bob Seely ) , for West Dorset ( Chris Loder ) , for South Dorset ( Richard Drax ) , for Waveney ( Peter Aldous ) , for St Austell and Newquay ( Steve Double ) and for Bracknell ( James Sunderland ) — not forget , of course , the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) and for Glasgow North ( Patrick Grady ) . I also congratulate all those who take part in the London marathon ; I be not one of they . let I now turn to the subject that we be here to debate . end of life care be a subject that have touch the life of most of we . it be a time when our love one , and the family and friend who surround they , can be at their most vulnerable and in need of the great support . manage well , it can be a healing time for family to come together , but manage badly , it can leave deep and traumatic scar . I need only look at the experience of my family — the experience that I have during the death of my parent to know how this bear out . it be 30 year ago that I lose my mum to ovarian cancer — I be 19 . her final hour be spend at the end of an old victorian ward with the curtain pull around she , and she be in immense pain and suffering , which I remember vividly to this day . that be incredibly hard for our family to manage . more recently , in 2022 I lose my dad follow his own battle with cancer . unlike my mum , he die at home , with my wife and I take he in for the last few month of his life , and we be support by a superb army of care staff . in fact , when the time come for my dad to decide whether he want to go to the local hospice , Willow Wood , or stay at home with we , the final word that he communicate to I and my wife be , " stay here . " I come back to the point make by the hon . member for Colchester about how we talk about death , how we deal with death and the end of life , and the fact that many people want dignified end of life service at home ; we should do all we can to facilitate that . in my dad ' s case , the whole system work . it come together in a way that , as I know from my constituency casework , it rarely do . the hospital , social service , Macmillan , Marie Curie , the GP , the pharmacy , the district nurse and Willow Wood hospice all work together seamlessly , and my die pass away in comfort , peacefully and surround by those who love he most in the world . we have hear from my hon . friend the Member for Coventry North East and other member that we have to get the end of life choice right for people , and hospice at home play an important role in that . the sharp contrast between my parent ' journey emphasise to I , in a deeply personal way , just how impactful end of life care can be . for all of we , death should be about choice and what we want , and we should leave this planet with dignity . we talk about the integrate care board , and the clue be in the name : they should be integrate , with both social care and other service , include hospice service . in my dad ' s case , that work , but as we have hear from member across the House , in too many case the integration just be not there yet . the Government have rightly devolve money to the icb for a specific purpose , but it be not be spend as we would want . hospice play such an important part in that deeply personal journey for hundred of thousand of people and their family every year , right across the country . work in partnership with exist local system , hospice ensure that people receive the care that be most appropriate for they , consider all their need . I pay particular tribute to one of my local hospice , Willow Wood hospice in Ashton , Tameside . the tireless work and dedication of its staff be a vital support when we be care for my dad in his final day . those staff show hospice care at its good , and they have my immense gratitude for all that they continue to do . but they , like so many other , find themselves in a perilous financial position ; Willow Wood face a structural deficit of £ 750 , 000 this financial year . without find a way to plug the gap , its service will have to be reduce . there be real pressure on all hospice to generate their own income , with Hospice UK estimate that as much as two third of income for adult hospice be generate through fundraising , with some , like Willow Wood , have to raise 80 % of their fund themselves . many hospice do incredible fundraising work , with army of volunteer find ever more ingenious way to keep the money come in , but with the incredibly hostile economic climate that hospice be find themselves in , include as a result of energy cost , fund be be squeeze more than ever — [ interruption . ] someone put 50p in the meter ; obviously the House can not afford those cost now ! the sector as a whole be on track for a deficit of £ 77 million for the last financial year , the bad figure for two decade . as a result , hospice be start to pare back some of their service . as we have hear , there be also a legal requirement place on integrate care board by the Health and Care Act 2022 to commission palliative care service in keep with local need , and we need to ensure that that funding be passporte down to the hospice where they need it . we know that delivery be far from consistent , leave patient in some part of the country without adequate service in their own community . the clear pressure on the sector show no sign of let up , because we be an age population and demand on hospice service be set to increase far , with Office for National Statistics datum suggest that a further 130 , 000 people will die each year in the UK by 2040 . it be clear that we need proper join - up supportive policy for the hospice sector . we need to ensure that the money that the Government have ensure be there for the hospice sector get down to where it need it : at the hospice themselves . we need to focus on create a health and care system that be genuinely join up and have end of life care as part of the health and wellbeing policy for each and every one of we . this can no long be the taboo subject it once be , and the hospice sector underpin so many care pathway that have a tangibly positive impact on patient and their family . end of life care matter . this current Government will have our support in ensure that the hospice sector be protect and support . I thank my hon . friend the Members for Hastings and Rye ( Sally - Ann Hart ) and for Darlington ( Peter Gibson ) for secure this debate . the number of speech this evening reflect the strength of feeling , and the support , for hospice across the country . as the Minister with oversight of end of life care , I share the passion of many hon . member for hospice and for what they do , care for people towards and at the end of life , provide respite for carer and support family both before and after the death of a love one . many hon . member have rightly praise the work of the hospice that serve their constituent and make special mention of the extraordinary work of hospice for child and young people . I also thank the hospice for all they do , and for all they be do right now , as their staff work around the clock . beyond that , I thank everyone who give palliative and end of life care , as part of hospice team but also work in the NHS . how you die , how your love one die or how you live towards the end of your life , matter . as the hon . member for Birmingham , Erdington ( Mrs Hamilton ) say so eloquently early this evening , and as all of we here this evening know , that be why palliative and end of life care matter . it matter when that care be provide by the NHS , as it be for the majority of people , and when it be provide by hospice . I emphasise that point , because there be sometimes a misunderstanding , which I have hear a few time this evening . the fact be that most palliative and end of life care be provide by the NHS , whether in hospital , by primary care or through community trust . alongside and in addition to that , hospice do the wonderful work that they do . recognise the importance of palliative and end of life care , we specify in the Health and Care Act 2022 that integrate care board must commission these service to meet the need of their population . some hon . member have argue this evening for hospice funding to be centralise , take away from integrated care board and , I assume , allocate by either NHS England or the Department of Health and Social Care . while I understand their motivation in make that call , I do not agree . we purposefully set up icb to understand the healthcare need of our local community , to plan and commission service to meet those need and , in so do , to reduce health disparity . our community and their need , and the service they already have in place , be different , and rarely be a one - size - fit - all decision make in Westminster the right answer . I stand by a more localised approach , in which there be , of course , variation . another source of variation be historical . the hospice movement have grow organically , and the location of hospice have not be plan to meet demographic need , for instance . there be , therefore , inequality in access to hospice service , especially for those live in rural and more deprived area . this variation in access to hospice care have to be take into account by icb in the decision they must make to ensure that people have access to end of life care , whether or not they live in an area serve by a hospice . my hon . friend make an important point about the organic way in which our hospice have develop and emerge . do she agree that our icb have the opportunity to use our hospice to address those shortfall in certain community by direct funding specifically to they to meet need that have not previously be meet ? will the Minister far clarify one small point ? she have make a clear distinction between NHS - provide care and hospice care , but there be many case around the country where the NHS be fund , in full or in part , specific service from hospice . how would she distinguish between they ? be it NHS care or hospice care if it have be fully commission and fully fund by the NHS ? I will pick up on a few of those point . on the NHS provide palliative and end of life care , I have hear a misunderstanding in some speech , both this evening and on other occasion , that all end of life and palliative care be provide by hospice . it be more mixed . integrated care board do , indeed , commission hospice to provide care , but hospice also provide care independently , and NHS service do so , too . these team also work together collaboratively . that diversity be a strength . in seek to address inequality , icb can look to hospice to do more in underserved area , for instance . at other time it may be more appropriate for they to look to NHS service . it will vary by area , which be one reason why these decision should be localise , rather than make by somebody sit in my place say , " this be how it should be do across the whole country . " although I do not agree with centralise hospice funding , I be work on the transparency and accountability of icb to their community and hon . member , as representative . that be why I have regular meeting with NHS England lead on palliative and end of life care , and it be why I be pleased to have secure NHS England ' s commitment to include palliative and end of life care in the topic discuss at its regular performance meeting with icb . it be also why I be push NHS England and icb to improve the datum they collect on the access to and quality of palliative and end of life care . NHS England have develop a palliative and end of life care datum dashboard to help icb understand the need of their population and then address and track inequality in access to end of life care . this be progress , but I want the transparency to go far so that we all have the datum we need to assure ourselves that our icb be commission the care that our constituent need . I have hear the call for more funding for hospice and the story of some fantastic fundraising effort , from the " star trek " night walk and the " Santa sprint " to the magnificent marathon runner who have join we in the Chamber tonight fresh from yesterday ' s London marathon . I congratulate those who run , and particularly those who do so on behalf of hospice , which be timely for this debate . that say , I disagree with the hon . member who say that people run a marathon for hospice be " sad " — it be not ; it be a wonderful thing . it be a sign of the tremendous support that hospice have in our community and that people be willing to choose to fund hospice , not just when the taxman come along ; they be choose to have a hospice provide service to people in their area . it be a good thing because that fundraising give hospice an independent funding stream , the freedom that go with that to serve their community as they see fit , and the strong tie with their community and with all those people who fundraise for their hospice . my hon . friend be so right in what she be say . in my constituency of Eastbourne , people be not just prepared to run for the St Wilfrid ' s Hospice , but they will walk over coal for it . will she congratulate they on their outstanding work ? I do congratulate those people on their fundraising effort ; although I hope their foot be all right ! as hon . member know , the Government have provide dedicated additional funding to hospice ; in the pandemic , when I play a part , we be help they with energy bill and through the child ' s hospice grant , which the NHS have confirm will go to hospice for this financial year too . look ahead , I fully appreciate the ask for long - term certainty of funding — of course I understand that . however , fund for hospice , end of life care and many other thing beyond the current financial year depend on a future spending review . I be sure that all hon . member will understand that I can not pre - empt such a review , and icb similarly will not know their funding until that review . although commit funding beyond the spending review period be not in my power , I be push for our healthcare system to encourage and enable more advance planning by individual to consider and set out what they want at the end of their life . inevitably , some of we will die in hospital , and for some of we that will be the right place , but give a choice many people would rather die at home . we should all be set out a plan that include our preference of place of death and what sort of treatment we do and do not want . as my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for South Swindon ( Sir Robert Buckland ) and my fabulous health colleague my hon . friend the Member for Colchester ( Will Quince ) say , we should talk more about death and plan for it . to conclude , there be no easy answer to the question raise this evening — there rarely be . I do not have a pot of money otherwise go unspent for hospice ; neither do icb and nor do NHS England . I will , however , continue work with NHS England to ensure that palliative and end of life care be give the attention it deserve and need so that it be consider important , just as we consider service that prolong life important , and that the NHS be hold to account for do that . I will continue to agree with hon . member on the importance of hospice and the important work they do . I see this as a Minister , as a constituency MP and from my own family experience ; I will never forget say goodbye to my grandmother in a hospice near Yeovil , and I will always be grateful . I call Sally - Ann Hart to wind up . I thank the member of the Backbench Business Committee for grant this important debate in this House , as well as all the member who have speak today and Hospice UK for their dedicated work and support . I especially thank St Michael ' s Hospice and Demelza , their staff and all the volunteer , as well as local people for their donation and fundraising , especially during challenge economic time . I also thank my hon . friend the Member for Darlington ( Peter Gibson ) for all his long - stand hard work and advocacy on behalf of hospice and end of life care . member from across the House have speak collectively on this important issue , with a passion and consensus that show that the funding of hospice and palliative and end of life care be not a political issue . the Government do financially support hospice through icb , but funding model also require close consideration , ensure parity with the NHS while maintain hospice ' independence and flexibility . the Minister have hear many similar theme , mainly surround certainty of funding , on a sustainable basis , and well collaboration between icb , the NHS and hospice . I thank she for her work , her consideration and listen to the debate . extra Government funding via icb can improve a localise approach . we all call for more funding to be include in the spending review . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider the postcode lottery of funding for hospice ; and call on integrate care board to urgently address the funding for hospice - provide palliative care in their area . business of the House ( today ) ( no . 2 ) order , that , at this day ' s sit , the Speaker shall not adjourn the House until any message from the Lords relate to the Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Bill shall have be receive . — ( Aaron Bell . ) safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Bill consideration of Lords message [ relevant document : Second Report of the Joint Committee on Human Rights , Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Bill , HC 435 , and the Government response , HC 647 . ] under the Programme Order of 18 March , any message from the Lords in respect of the Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Bill may be consider forthwith , without any question put , and proceeding shall be bring to a conclusion no later than one hour after their commencement . a message have be receive from the Lords that the Lords do not insist on an amendment to the Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Bill to which the Commons have disagree , but propose an amendment in lieu , to which they desire the agreement of the Commons , and they do not insist on another amendment to which the Commons have disagree . the Lords amendment and the Government motion relate to it be available online and in the Vote Office . before we move to consideration of the Lords message receive today , I can confirm that nothing in the Lords message engage Commons financial privilege . lord message consider forthwith ( Order , this day ) . clause 1 - introduction I beg to move , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 3j . it be a great pleasure to open the debate . I start by echo and agree with my hon . friend the Member for East Worthing and Shoreham ( Tim Loughton ) , who start his speech during the previous debate , just a short number of hour ago , by agree with what the Opposition spokesman , the hon . member for Aberavon ( Stephen Kinnock ) , say about there be nothing new to say , just pity that he then spend 40 minute say nothing new . I do not intend to emulate what the shadow Minister do on that previous occasion , because it be clear that amendment 3j be almost identical to the previous amendment that we debate and that this House reject just a short number of hour ago . the amendment be in two part , insert when Rwanda may be treat as a safe country and when Rwanda must cease to be treat as a safe country . the amendment be not necessary . turn to the amendment from the noble Lord Anderson of Ipswich , I will make it clear once again that we will ratify the treaty only when all necessary implementation be in place . the implementation will be keep under review by the independent monitoring committee . clause 9 of the Bill make it clear when the Bill and its provision come into force . implementation continue at pace . I can confirm again that on 21 March the Rwandan Senate pass legislation ratify the treaty . as I confirm this afternoon , on 19 April — just last Friday — the Rwandan Parliament pass domestic legislation to implement its new asylum system . in an attempt to reassure my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for South Swindon ( Sir Robert Buckland ) , let I say that , as we have make clear , if the monitoring committee be to raise any issue to the joint committee , stand member of the joint committee be senior official of the Government of this country and the Government of Rwanda , and the Government will , of course , listen . I remind my right hon . and hon . friend that it will be up to the independent monitoring committee to raise issue at any point . there be nothing new in this amendment . such amendment have already be reject . enough be enough . for several month now , the Prime Minister have be ferociously attack their lordship in the other place simply for do their constitutional duty by seek to revise and improve this Bill . tonight , we see the evidence of why it be so important that they do just that . I wish to put on the record my thank to the noble Lord Browne for his tenacity in secure a significant concession — and it be a concession — which promise that Afghans in the UK who have put forward credible claim and evidence of a connection to afghan specialist unit will not be deport to Rwanda . this have not go as far as we would want it to , but at least the Government , albeit begrudgingly , have inch towards do the right thing by stand by some of those who so bravely stand by we in the face of the Taliban . we owe they a debt of gratitude and it be a great shame that the Government , and in particular the Prime Minister , first turn their back on those to whom we promise sanctity by cancel flight from Pakistan . they then spend month resist Lord Browne ' s effort to prevent these brave Afghans from be send to Rwanda despite repeatedly be press to do so and to do the right thing by our armed force , and now finally they be be drag kick and scream to where we find ourselves this evening . even this afternoon , the Minister ' s response to my hon . friend the Member for Walthamstow ( Stella Creasy ) , who be not in her place at the moment , be reveal . she raise in detail a case of her constituent who support british effort , but whose family be stick in Afghanistan , yet the Minister could not even bring himself to reassure my hon . friend that he would meet she or even look into the specific of that case . that be why it will be so important for we to hold the Government to account on this concession , because it be so difficult to take what minister say at face value . turn now to the amendment in the name of Lord Anderson , I find it stagger that Ministers still have not concede on this very basic point : that this House be not just try to legislate that Rwanda be safe now — in other word that white be black and black be white — but that Rwanda be safe in perpetuity . the noble Lord Anderson be right when he say in the other place this evening that this be a post - truth Bill . we can not possibly legislate for something that be in the lap of the god . I speak early about the dangerous and turbulent world in which we live and how , at any point , the situation in Rwanda could change radically , just as it could in any other country . I be aware that the only consistent thing in the Labour leadership be its inconsistency . will the shadow Minister confirm that in the past decade Rwanda be assume to be so unsafe that the UN safely rehouse there 30 , 000 refugee from other country ? I thank the hon . member for his intervention . I be very glad that he ask about what have happen in the past decade . let we not forget that , just six year ago , 11 refugee be shoot dead by the rwandan police for protest about food shortage , as report by the UN . I thank he for his intervention , because he make the point clearly for I : six year ago , 11 refugee be shoot dead . rise — I would welcome the hon . member ' s comment on that point . I be sorry about that incident , but 30 , 000 refugee have be safely rehouse in Rwanda . Rwanda be deem to be safe by the United Nations . it be deem to be safe by pretty much everybody apart from the Labour party . that be my point . the whole point of this be that we do not have a crystal ball . the evidence of what happen six year ago should clearly give we some cause for concern . all that this amendment seek to do be create a position whereby the independent monitoring committee , handpicke by the Government , be able to advise the Home Secretary on lay a statement , which be absolutely fair enough . I listen carefully to the intervention that refer to 30 , 000 refugee in the past decade . be my hon . friend aware that within the past 12 month the UK have accept a refugee from Rwanda ? it be not just one refugee ; many refugee be take from Rwanda by this country , which beg the question how safe Rwanda can be . all that the amendment would do be trust but verify . it would put in place the kind of mechanism that be embed in thousand of piece of legislation that be on the statute book . I simply can not understand why the Government can not simply accept the amendment and enable the Home Secretary to lay a statement on whether Rwanda be safe or unsafe . that would provide important safeguard . it be not in any way a wrecking amendment ; just like all the other amendment that the Government reject , it would not prevent flight from take off . at his press conference this morning , the Prime Minister boast about the progress that he have supposedly be make to stop the Tory small boat chaos . yet as he stand at the lectern , it emerge that small boat crossing have increase by 24 % compare with the same period last year . next , he refuse to give detail about the operationalisation of the Rwanda scheme , say that " we will not be give away sensitive operational detail which could hinder all the progress make to date " — or so he think . it subsequently emerge that one of his Ministers have leave behind under some chair in the front row a secret document entitle " official Sensitive " , which include — wait for it — operational detail of how the scheme will work . you simply could not make it up , Madam Deputy Speaker . yet another day of chaos , empty boast , and shambolic incompetence . to be fair to the Prime Minister , he make one point in his press conference that Labour do agree with . in response to a question from the medium , he clearly state that the test for the policy will not be whether a few " symbolic flight " take off , as his former friend the right hon . member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) , the former Immigration Minister , say . in the Prime Minister ' s word : " success be when the boat have be stop . " that be how he want to be judge , and I assure the House that it be how Labour will judge he , and how the public will judge he too . for two year , we have be urge the Prime Minister to stop the boast and instead start stop the Tory boat chaos . sadly , he have choose to ignore we on both front . instead , we need Labour ' s plan — [ interruption . ] — to redirect the Rwanda money into a cross - border police unit to smash the criminal gang upstream , and a return and enforcement unit to remove those who have no right to be here , reverse the decline in removal that we have see under this Government . only Labour ' s plan can fix our country ' s broken asylum system — [ interruption . ] — and only Labour ' s plan can restore order at our border . [ interruption . ] conservative member do not want to hear it , but that be the reality of the situation . I hope that every Conservative Member will join I in the Division Lobby this evening . it be go so well , and then it descend into a second read diatribe from a Labour Opposition that have absolutely nothing to say about the serious challenge of immigration . they pretend that they will do what the Government be do , only slightly well , but they do not really approach the level of event and the seriousness of the issue . we face a blank page on the other side of the House . let we deal briefly with the issue that we have leave . I still think that there be strong merit in what their lordship say about not just the way in which we designate Rwanda to be a safe country but the parliamentary mechanism that we have to deal with thing change in the future , if they do . it seem to I that in the absence of the amendment there would be the need for further primary legislation in the future , which I do not think be a great place for the Government to end up in . however , in the context of where we be in the detailed consideration of Lords amendment , there come a time when the unelected House have to cede authority to the elect House . I think we be now approach that moment . while I in no way resile from the merit of the argument , we need to look at the big picture , remember the balance that we have to strike and , frankly , think ahead to what future government there might end up be — hopefully not of a different complexion to our own . we need to strike a balance between both Houses . I judge that now be probably the time for we to — will the right hon . and learn Member give way ? no ! I will give way . would not the right hon . and learn Member ' s argument about whether their lordship should cave in have more weight if the policy have any mandate from the people ? it be not mention in a general election . it be not in a manifesto . it be not the will of the people . the hon . Gentleman ' s argument have merit , under the Salisbury - Addison convention , when it come to the principle of a Bill . their lordship have absolutely the leeway to deal with it in the way that they have on the basis that it be not in a manifesto — he be not wrong about that — but there be a more fundamental point about the way in which the balance between both Houses must be maintain . this be the fourth round of ping - pong — I think the record be seven — on this short Bill . for the European Union ( Withdrawal ) Bill — a much lengthy Bill — we have only two round of ping - pong , because , in the end , the other House respect the primacy of this place . however reluctant and conflict I feel about this issue , I think that we have reach that moment . that do not necessarily mean that I will vote against the Lords amendment , but I will consider whether I vote in favour of it on this occasion . however , I do say this to my right hon . and learn Friend the Minister and to the government : get ourselves into the position of have four round of ping - pong on a Bill as short as this be not a great place to be , with respect to he . have the Government make other concession — as they have probably now do on the afghan question , and as they do on the modern - day slavery question — perhaps we would not have have to wait this long , until this late hour , and goodness know perhaps until a later hour , before make they . I remind my hon . friend that Lords amendment be not about the principle of the Bill ; they be about the detail of scrutiny . give the spirit in which my right hon . and learn Friend have approach the amendment , it would have be wise for we to reach this position slightly early , but that be the only criticism that I offer at this stage . the principle of the Bill be now settle , and the will of this House should prevail . I rise again to put on the record the SNP ' s opposition to this awful Bill . we do not support the state - sponsor people - traffic Bill on Rwanda , and we will oppose it in any way we can . I be quite disappointed to hear the Labour Lords cave on the afghan amendment . if they think that this be some kind of concession , I have some magic bean to sell they — honestly , it be pathetic . Holly Bancroft , a journalist at the Independent who have do so much work to expose the weakness of the Government ' s afghan scheme , say : " this review be already happen and be only for Afghans with link to specialist unit . the Home Office be say they win ' t deport the Triples grant leave to remain in the UK by the MoD , who come here irregularly . the number of people in this situation will be very small . " before I come into the Chamber , I be phone by Councillor Abdul Bostani of Glasgow Afghan United . he want to know what be happen in this place and what protection there will be for the Afghans he be constant contact with . he want to know what happen to the journalist , the interpreter , the people who put their life in danger to safeguard the UK ' s mission in Afghanistan , and their child and family ? he say : " those people who the UK leave behind , nobody be listen to they , nobody be reply . the safe and legal route be not there . " I make this point because it be important and I want it record in Hansard . my constituent Trevor Young work for the British Army in Afghanistan , alongside his comrade and friend , an Afghan who now happen to be in Pakistan because he have to leave Afghanistan after threat to he and his wife and child . the police have remove his phone , and he face deportation from Pakistan back to Afghanistan . this be so important for my constituent . Minister , my constituent ' s friend , an afghan soldier , have be forget about by the British Government . I make a plea for he because he be not cover by the legislation . I thank the hon . gentleman — he be quite right to point that out in the way that he have . it have be far report in the Independent that an afghan intelligence analyst who work alongside member of the RAF have be threaten with removal to Rwanda . he say , " I call on the prime minister and the government to stand by the promise they make during the fall of Kabul . if the legal way , such as Arap and ACRS … be actually work , people like I wouldn ' t have to wait for year just for a response and wouldn ' t be force into take a small boat to come to the UK … be in limbo be nothing but a waste of the UK ' s resource . I have the skill to contribute to the UK ' s community and the tax system , but I have to rely on Home Office help , because I can not work . " there be thousand of people in his position . I have also an email from a person who email I quite regularly . I do not know whether this person ever get a response from the afghan relocation and assistance policy email address that he email , or from the other people who he copy in , but I see and read those email when they come in . it be in tribute to Sayed , who be constantly seek some safety , that I read this : " you cause I to miss the evacuation flight . why should I be in this situation . it be all because of you … I can ' t endure it anymore . I be tired and I be face with so many challenge . it happen several time today … that I have to stop myself with difficulty from cry in the middle of the street . everyone be look at I . I can ' t endure it anymore . " these be the people who have be leave behind by this Bill , and have now be leave behind by the Labour party , which would not press the amendment far . I now turn to the one remain amendment of all the amendment we have have . [ interruption . ] I be sorry , be I bore conservative Members ? do they want to pop back out to the Prime Minister ' s office and have some drink , instead of listen to the important case be put in this debate ? they care so little . what we be ask — [ interruption . ] order . I be just anxious that the hon . Lady address the amendment that be in front of we . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker ; I be address the amendment that be in front of we . lord amendment 3j seek a very small concession to Parliament : that this place should have some kind of scrutiny over whether Rwanda remain a safe country . conservative Members be all about take back control , but when it come to scrutiny of the treaty and obligation we be sign up to , it be quite clear that they could not give a hoot . all that we be ask for — all that the Lords be ask for — in this amendment be some assurance , now and in the future , that there will be scrutiny of whether Rwanda be indeed a safe country . that be not ask too much . the Government say that they will be ready to remove people in 10 to 12 week , and that Rwanda will be safe when the treaty be in force . I ask the Government this : will all the matter of implementation be in force in 10 to 12 week ? will the policy be in place in 10 to 12 week ? will the staff be in place in 10 to 12 week ? will the judge be in place in 10 to 12 week ? will the lawyer be in place in 10 to 12 week ? will the appeal system be in place in 10 to 12 week ? will all those thing be there ? will the accommodation be there in 10 to 12 week — we know that that have already be sell off — and what airline company have the Government contract with to remove people in 10 to 12 week ? they have be extremely unclear about whether they even have an airline company . they have not tell we that , and this House deserve to know , because we be not go to get the opportunity again to scrutinise the Government on whether or not the Rwanda treaty be actually be implement . the very least that this House should be able to do be check whether the Government and future government be fulfil the obligation they have commit to carry out . we know that even when this treaty be be negotiate , Rwanda be engage in refoulement . if that be happen when the treaty be be negotiate , be it still happen now ? can the Minister give any assurance that Rwanda be not refoule people right now ? if he can not come to the Dispatch Box and give that assurance , we should not be reject this Lords amendment and approve the Bill this evening . this Bill have be very unusual in the number of Lords amendment we have have . I have never see the like . I do not believe in the House of Lords — it be a principled position of the SNP not to send people to an unelected Chamber — but this Westminster system be break when the suppose revise Chamber have be ignore throughout the entire process of this Bill . a revise Chamber be suppose be allow to revise , yet this Government have ignore every single reasonable amendment the House of Lords have make . the Bill will be exactly the same as when it be introduce when it come out of this process . this elect House have absolutely no mandate for this Bill . it be in no manifesto , the Prime Minister do not have a mandate for it , and this House have no business approve it . I support the Lords in reject it . this Bill be not a deterrent . it have not be a deterrent , and nothing the Government have do have be a deterrent . it will not work . it will pile misery on to people who have already suffer incredible trauma , which the folk crowing on the Government Benches can not even imagine . it do not happen in Scotland ' s name , and we will vote against it at every opportunity we get . question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 3j . Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Graham Brady Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Damian Collins Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon Paul Girvan John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Matthew Hancock Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Bernard Jenkin Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Lia Nici Neil o ' Brien Guy Opperman Ian Paisley Jnr Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Mary Robinson Andrew Rosindell Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Julian Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy Rishi Sunak James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Joy Morrissey Mark Jenkinson Diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Mhairi Black Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Nick Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Bambos Charalambous Joanna Cherry Feryal Clark Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Angela Crawley Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Edward Davey Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Tim Farron Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Colleen Fletcher Stephen Flynn Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Gill Furniss George Galloway Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Mark Hendrick Drew Hendry Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Gen Kitchen Peter Kyle Ben Lake David Lammy Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Simon Lightwood David Linden Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Kenny MacAskill Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Rachael Maskell Keir Mather John McNally Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Gavin Newlands John Nicolson Alex Norris Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Bridget Phillipson Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Steve Reed Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Virendra Sharma Tommy Sheppard Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Jeff Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Alison Thewliss Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Tonia Antoniazzi Mary Glindon the House divide : Ayes 312 , Noes 237 . question accordingly agree to . lord amendment 3j disagree to . motion make , and question put , that a Committee be appoint to draw up a Reason to be assign to the Lords for disagree to their Amendment 3j ; that Michael Tomlinson , Scott Mann , Dr Kieran Mullan , James Sunderland , Stephen Kinnock , Colleen Fletcher , and Alison Thewliss be member of the Committee ; that Michael Tomlinson be the Chair of the Committee ; that three be the quorum of the Committee . that the Committee do withdraw immediately . — ( Mark Fletcher . ) Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Graham Brady Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Damian Collins Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon Paul Girvan John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Matthew Hancock Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Bernard Jenkin Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Lia Nici Neil o ' Brien Guy Opperman Ian Paisley Jnr Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Mary Robinson Andrew Rosindell Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Julian Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy Rishi Sunak James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Joy Morrissey Mark Jenkinson Hannah Bardell Mhairi Black Kirsty Blackman Deidre Brock Alan Brown Amy Callaghan Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Angela Crawley Martin Docherty Allan Dorans Colum Eastwood Marion Fellows George Galloway Patricia Gibson Patrick Grady Drew Hendry Chris Law David Linden Caroline Lucas Kenny MacAskill John McNally Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald Anne McLaughlin Gavin Newlands John Nicolson Kirsten Oswald Anum Qaisar Liz Saville - Roberts Tommy Sheppard Alyn Smith Chris Stephens Alison Thewliss Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Claudia Webbe Philippa Whitford Hywel Williams Pete Wishart Peter Grant Steven Bonnar the House divide : Ayes 309 , Noes 41 . question accordingly agree to . committee to withdraw immediately ; reason to be report and communicate to the Lords . that conclude consideration of the Lords message receive today relate to the Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Bill . the House may be call upon to consider a further Lords message later today , if necessary . I be suspend the sitting to await any such message from the Lords . the Division bell will ring before the House resume . sit suspend ( Order , this day ) . Petition - Sentencing and illegal knife possession I rise to present a petition , on behalf of my constituent , about sentencing and illegal knife possession . the petition have be lead by Bernice Barfield , a devoted mother from my West Suffolk constituency whose son Harley be tragically stab to death in Haverhill last year . he be just 16 . I thank Bernice for all her time and effort in campaign in memory of her son . the petition state : the petition of resident of the constituency of West Suffolk , declare that the rise incidence of illegal knife carry in public pose a significant threat to public safety and call for urgent intervention ; far declare that such incident contribute to an atmosphere of fear and insecurity in our community ; far that preventative measure be necessary to address this issue effectively ; far that the petitioner be of the opinion that a mandatory prison sentence for those catch carry a knife illegally in public , couple with a mandatory 6 - month knife awareness course for rehabilitation , will act as a deterrent to contribute to the reduction of knife - relate crime ; and far that the rehabilitation program should aim to address the root cause of such behaviour and facilitate the offender ' s reintegration into society as law - abide citizen . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to consider introduce measure which contribute to public safety and help address the root cause of illegal knife carrying , include introduce mandatory prison sentence for individual catch carry a knife illegally in public and implement a mandatory 6 - month knife awareness course for rehabilitation as part of the sentencing process . and the petitioner remain , etc . [ p002947 ] Petition - Recommendations of the Infected Blood Inquiry I rise to present a petition on behalf of those infect and affect by the contaminated blood scandal , in particular my constituent Richard Gilmour , who be infect in 1974 through a blood transfusion . he have have to undergo multiple medical procedure since and say that he be lucky to still be alive . like all those infect , he suffer chronic fatigue and other symptom , and he deserve justice without further delay . the Government must act now . the petition state : the petition of resident of the constituency of Rutherglen and Hamilton West , declare that people who receive infected blood and who have suffer as a consequence have , along with their family , wait far too long for redress . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to implement the recommendation in the Second Interim Report of the Infected Blood Inquiry without delay . and the petitioner remain , etc . [ p002957 ] Food Poverty Strategy Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Rebecca Harris . ) exactly 10 year have pass since , in April 2014 , an all - party parliamentary inquiry be launch to investigate hunger and food poverty in these island . lead by the great Frank Field — now Lord Field of Birkenhead — who at that time be a distinguished member of this House , the inquiry ' s report contain a powerful rallying cry . it say : " the simple but devastating fact that hunger stalk this country should confront each of the main political party with a most basic and fundamental political challenge . with rise national income nobody could have predict that in 2014 there would be a significant number of hungry people in Britain . but there be . " in identify the force behind that hunger , the inquiry note : " something fundamental be happen in advanced western economy which throw into doubt the effectiveness of a national minimum below which no one be allow to fall . it be the erosion of an effective national minimum that have lead to the existence of hunger and the rise of the food bank movement in its wake . " the fact that I will outline some of those same specific force later in this debate , and the fact that the number of people have to use food bank have increase relentlessly since the inquiry publish its report , be a shocking indictment of the UK Government ' s response to hunger and food poverty over the past 10year . it be also a reminder of why an effective strategy be so necessary — to prevent yet another full decade of lengthen queue for food bank and rise level of hunger . the Government ' s family resource survey recently find that between 2019 - 20 and 2022 - 23 , household food insecurity increase for the UK as a whole from 8 % to 10 % . large family with child be particularly vulnerable to this form of injustice . a survey commission last year by Feeding Britain find that although 3 % of household with no child report access a food bank , that proportion increase to 6 % among those with one child and 7 % among those with two child . the high proportion — 13 % — be find among those with three or more child . in a similar vein , adult live in a household with three or more child be almost four time as likely to report skip meal every day because there be not enough money for food than those with one child , and almost six time as likely than those with no child . the Minister will know that this injustice be feel by people both in and out of pay employment . among member survey by the Bakers , Food and Allied Workers Union , the number rely on food bank increase between 2021 and 2023 from 7 % to 17 % . those rely on friend and family have go from 20 % to 34 % , and those eat less have go from 35 % to 57 % . of those survey , 80 % be eat cheap — unhealthier — meal , 55 % have be worry about run out of food and 45 % have skip meal . even close to home , the Minister may be aware that food bank usage among staff at the Department for Work and Pensions increase from 8 % of those survey by the Public and Commercial Services Union in 2022 to 11 % in 2023 . perhaps she could explain why so many staff work for the Department for Work and Pensions be only pay the national minimum wage . the Food Foundation ' s recent survey show that in January , 15 % of UK household be experience food insecurity . among household with child , 20 % be experience food insecurity , and 24 % of household of non - white ethnicity be food insecure — 1 . 6 time more than household of white ethnicity . of those in some kind of employment , 15 % be food insecure . stark health inequality be highly prevalent , particularly in diet - relate poor health . the most deprived community be affect disproportionately by much high rate of food - relate ill health and disease , from obesity to type 2 diabetes , cardiovascular disease and dental decay . recent report show an increase in hospital admission for nutrient deficiency . the datum should ring alarm bell . the longevity of the cost of living crisis mean that food insecurity have become the norm for many household who be unable to buy staple nutritious product . anyone who volunteer for a food bank in Glasgow , like in any other asylum dispersal area , will tell of the need to assist those who seek sanctuary in the UK . asylum seeker receive a payment of £ 45 a week — equivalent to what a youth trainee receive 30 year ago . how should the Government respond to those alarming figure ? fortunately , there be two recent precedent — from the Biden Administration in America and the Scottish Government under Humza Yousaf , both of whom have publish strategy to eliminate hunger and food poverty within the come year . a consistent thread run through both those strategy be a combination of specific policy to raise household income level , improve access to nutritional support scheme and accelerate the development of innovative project that bring affordable food to area where people be struggle most . it be that threefold combination that I would like to propose to the Minister by way of an effective food poverty strategy that can eliminate the need for food bank in these island by 2030 . first , the 2014 inquiry identify food bank usage as result from " delay and error in the processing and payment of benefit , the sometimes heavy - handed issuing of benefit sanction … a sudden loss of earning through reduce hour or unemployment , the absence of free school meal , the accumulation of problem debt or , for some , even a lost purse . " it add : " a further group of factor similarly expose the vulnerability of many poor family . the poor be penalise for their poverty with a raft of disproportionate charge for basic utility . they pay more for their energy through prepayment meter , be more likely to be charge to withdraw cash from their local machine , and often be unable to take advantage of the good mobile phone contract — mean they be likely to be just one bill away from need to use a food bank . " today , around half of all household in receipt of universal credit be have an average of £ 60 a month deduct from their income , much of which be to repay the loan need to cover the five - week delay at the beginning of a new claim . in my Glasgow South West constituency , almost a quarter of a million pound per month be be deduct last year . at this stage , I would provide similar figure about the impact of the Government ' s sanction policy in Glasgow South West , but the Government decide last year that figure would no long be make available to member of this House on the amount of money be sanction in the constituency that we represent . however , thank to Dr David Webster at the University of Glasgow , we know that a total of 538 , 842 universal credit sanction be impose in the year end October 2023 , and 419 , 219 individual universal credit claimant receive at least one sanction . food bank across these island have identify those two policy as the two big recruiting sergeant for emergency food aid , so the first plank of a food poverty strategy must be to reform or get rid of those deduction and sanction , which be apply so harshly as to leave people hungry . I would place the abolition of the two - child limit on social security payment in a similar category , as well as the introduction of a formal mechanism for advise the Secretary of State for work and Pensions on the benefit level that be require each year to safeguard all household from hunger and food poverty , and the payment of fair wage throughout the public sector and the economy as a whole so that a fair day ' s work genuinely deliver a fair day ' s pay to all . we need to end the scandal of those work in hospitality not be able to buy food for themselves . we need to end insecure work and guarantee worker their hour of work . we also need firm action against the poverty premium , which still result in poor household miss out on the good and fairest deal for essential living cost . secondly , there be different programme available specifically to make nutritious food available to people who be at risk of food poverty , but awareness and take - up of those programme have never be as high as it could be . as such , can the Minister tell I whether the Government will undertake to work with all devolve Administrations and local authority to ensure that they have the tool they need to automatically identify and register all eligible household for those programme ? that be something that feature heavily in the Biden strategy , and could extend much - need help to hundred of thousand of child across these island . thirdly , I be proud to have set up the Good Food Scotland programme , which now run seven affordable food larder and community shop across Glasgow , include those in Nitshill , Cardonald and Linthouse in my constituency . they serve 2 , 000 member with fresh , nutritious food at a low cost , help to fill the gap between big supermarket and food bank . that approach protect those member from food poverty with dignity and choice , and we expect to be run 10 across the city of Glasgow by the end of this year . my hon . friend be make an excellent contribution on the importance of the need for a food strategy . he have highlight the volunteer and group across Glasgow that he work with ; will he join I in also celebrate the volunteer in Midlothian who help to run the Mayfield and Easthouses Development Trust pantry , the Woodburn pantry , the Gorebridge Beacon pantry , the Newtongrange Development Trust pantry , the Steading community fridge in Rosewell , and the Food Facts Friends pantry and community fridge that I recently visit , along with the Midlothian food bank at Gorebridge parish church and various pantry run by cyrenian across Midlothian , which all make such an amazing contribution ? I be glad to join my right hon . friend in thank his organisation in Midlothian . he will know , as I do , that the case study from these organisation can be very illuminating , and I will mention one now . case study from these project show how much difference they can make . a couple use the Linthouse Larder use to do their weekly shop in Asda at a cost of £ 80 a week . buy the same item in the Linthouse Larder have reduce their weekly shop to £ 30 a week — a saving of £ 50 a week . that help many people in Glasgow South West and in the constituency of my right hon . friend . those be the kind of saving that can be make , and I want to thank all those community organisation in Glasgow South West and beyond , across these island , who be tackle hunger and food poverty . on a big scale , and with the appropriate resource , these affordable food programme could play an important part in eliminate food poverty across these island . I propose to the Minister that the Government commit as soon as possible to a cross - sector summit , with the aim of help community to secure the resource they need to deliver such programme at the scale that will be necessary in the year ahead . in addition to that , much of the food require to sustain such programme could be make available if the Government introduce the mandatory reporting of food waste and surplus in retailer ' supply chain — a measure that would trigger much - need action by those retailer to ensure that edible surplus arise in the farm and factory that supply they be recycle for human consumption rather than put to waste . when Baroness Boycott propose such a measure in the other place in 2021 , the Government reject the idea on the proviso that voluntary effort within the food industry should first be give a chance . I would argue that , three year on , it be surely time to reconsider that idea with urgency . it be nothing short of shameful to have to bring to this House yet again the issue of hunger as a form of injustice that continue to blight the life of million of people in the UK , exactly a decade after the launch of an all - party inquiry that give the Government a set of proposal to make it a thing of the past . just imagine a society where no one go hungry ; just imagine a society with a proper social security system ; just imagine a society where work pay ; and just imagine a society where food be accessible for all and at a fair price . that should be our rallying call . we can not afford to let even more time slip by without a strategy to achieve that objective . with the number of hungry people continue to rise , now more than ever we need to tackle this emergency , and I await with interest the Minister ' s response . I congratulate the hon . member for Glasgow South West ( Chris Stephens ) on secure this important debate on the potential merit of a food poverty strategy . I would like to start by say that no one want to see people struggle in our constituency right across these island , and I understand fully the passion that drive the contribution on these important subject . I would like to add my voice to those of the hon . Gentleman and the right hon . member for Midlothian ( Owen Thompson ) in extend thank to all those charity , and more broadly to institution such as the Church that do lunch and so on . they not only provide food but be part of that cohesive societal network that help people at time of need . food insecurity be highly complex — the hon . Gentleman explain very clearly how complex it be — cover not only my own Department but the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , the Department of Health and Social Care , the Department for Business and Trade , his Majesty ' s Treasury and so on . the annual statistic on income and living standard be publish by my Department last month . they cover the year when the war in Ukraine and global supply chain pressure lead to exceedingly high inflation , average 10 % over the year . food price inflation link with the consumer price index peak during this time , reach a high of 19 . 1 % in March 2023 . thankfully , however , the late figure show that it have drop again , to about 4 % , with upward force bring the rise in February and March to 0 . 2 % , down from 1 . 1 % since a similar period last year . accord to statistic , food bank use during this period have remain relatively stable , although I agree that it be high than any of we would want . since 2022 - 23 , the period cover by these statistic , we have take firm action to help family on the low income . we will spend about £ 306 billion in the come financial year through the welfare system , include £ 138 billion on family and those of work age . the Government provide an unprecedented cost of live support package worth £ 96 billion during 2022 - 23 and 2023 - 24 , include £ 20 billion for two round of cost of living payment target specifically at those who be struggle the most . that help to shield people from the impact of inflation , prevent some 1 . 3 million household from fall into absolute poverty after housing cost . since 2010 the Government have oversee significant fall in poverty , with 1 . 1 million few people in absolute low income after housing cost in 2022 - 23 than in 2009 - 10 . I be not suggest for a minute that thing have not be , and be not still , difficult for many . food poverty be complex , as I have say , and it can not be tackle through welfare alone . the lever for tackle this issue sit with a number of Government Departments , which be why we be not only work across Government to bring down food inflation , but meet external anti - poverty stakeholder through our Departments and talk to other Departments about what more we can do . that include encourage retailer and those involve in local ecosystem . through regular engagement , the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs continue to work with food business throughout the supply chain to explore a range of measure that they can take to ensure the availability of affordable food by , for instance , maintain value range , price matching and price freezing . however — the hon . Gentleman would expect I to say this — it be not for the Government to tell retail outlet how to set their food price , or to tell company what to do . retailer have introduce incentive for customer , such as reward card offer small discount , and a number of store be offer meal deal either in - store or in their caf é s . as the hon . Gentleman point out , many use local or national group to redistribute food at the end of the work day , and many interact with FareShare , among other charity . a scandalous amount of food be be waste and go to landfill , and I think we should do something about that . it be not a silver bullet , but will the Minister ask her colleague in DEFRA to sit down with those of we who care passionately about this subject , and discuss address the fact that we have food poverty on one hand and a large amount of food waste on the other ? funnily enough , early today I be talk to the Under - Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , my hon . friend the Member for Taunton Deane ( Rebecca Pow ) , about exactly that issue . the hon . Gentleman mention that there be no mandate three year ago , and I be discuss how the reporting and so on be go . we know that not only be there the benefit of redistribution for individual but there be a significant environmental benefit for not put that food in landfill and create methane , so arguably there be a double win . when do sensibly , redistribution enable other to do the same as charity such as the Felix Project , which freeze food and make it available to people . the economy have turn a corner . inflation have more than halve and be forecast to fall below 2 % in 2024 - 25 , while wage be rise in real term and have do for the last consecutive nine month . price for food and non - alcoholic beverage rise by 4 % in the year to March , ease for the 12th consecutive month . however , we recognise the financial challenge that many be still face , which be why as inflation come down to the 2 % target we be continue to provide support for the 2024 - 25 period . this include uprating working - age benefit by 6 . 7 % , well ahead of the current inflation rate , and uplift the local housing allowance to the 30th percentile of local rent , which will benefit about 1 . 6 million private renter by , on average , £ 800 a year , as the hon . Gentleman indicate , alleviate financial pressure throughout the system for individual . far , there be additional support for family , include free school meal , which be be claim by some 2 million of the most disadvantaged pupil ; the £ 40 million that the Department for Education have put into stimulate the breakfast club ; and healthy food scheme , such as Healthy Start , which provide a nutritional safety net to more than 3 million child . I look after the Healthy Start policy when I be at the Department of Health and Social Care , get the uplift to £ 4 . 25 a week , so that pregnant woman and child over one and under four receive £ 4 . 25 every week . for a child under one , it be £ 8 . 50 every week . this can be use to buy , or be put towards the cost of , fresh , frozen or tin fruit and vegetable ; fresh , dried and tin pulse ; milk and infant formula . I remember well meeting Daisy , who speak to I very clearly about the difference it make have fresh produce , as the hon . Gentleman have already mention , come into her life and those of her child , and the nutritional benefit it give they . for those who still need extra help while inflation continue to fall , we be provide an additional £ 500 million to enable the extension of the household support fund for a further six month , include funding for the devolved Administrations through the Barnett formula , mean local authority in England will receive an additional £ 421 million to support local people , with the rest be distribute to the other nation . independent charitable organisation do fantastic work that also help in this space , whether they be our local church or organisation provide lunch and community pantry scheme . as the hon . Gentleman mention , they all help individual and family when they be in need . I thank the Minister for give way again ; she be be extremely generous . one concern that have be report to we be that the Department for Work and Pensions be no long help with food bank voucher . can she confirm that that be now departmental policy ? that would be a very real concern for someone who be in difficulty , have a conversation with a work coach , for example , who be now be deny that food bank voucher or discuss that sort of support that someone in absolute poverty require . I thank the hon . gentleman for give I the opportunity to put to bed completely the idea that there have be any change in our policy . we have always signpost that support . the only thing the DWP have do be bring in a new slip to replace the one use previously . there be no change to the exist policy , but the new slip allow we to improve our exist practice and to comply with our departmental responsibility under GDPR . our jobcentre continue to provide customer with guidance to find that additional support , include signpost to emergency food support where appropriate . we stand ready to help people when they be most in need . the hon . Gentleman mention the two - child policy . the late statistic that we have for household in receipt of universal credit be that the majority of family — some 78 % — have few than three child . surely it be right that all family , whether in receipt of universal credit or not , should face the same financial choice when decide whether to grow their family . while our action have show that we remain committed to a strong welfare safety net — particularly during challenge economic time — we know that the good way we can help be through support to move into work . that approach be base on clear evidence on the role of full - time work in substantially reduce poverty . the late statistic show that working - age adult in workless household be about seven time more likely to be in absolute poverty after housing cost . child live in workless household be more than six time more likely to be in absolute poverty after housing cost than those in family where adult work . there be now over 1 million few workless household in the UK than in 2010 — that be 680 , 000 few child grow up in a home where no one work . that be a cause for some gratitude . there be more than 900 , 000 vacancy across the UK , and through our core job centre offer we be firmly support people to get into work . we support they with travel cost through the flexible support fund , with face - to - face time with work coach , and help with interview . the voluntary in - work progression offer be in all jobcentre across Britain , provide an estimate 1 . 6 million low - pay worker on universal credit with access to personalise work coach . we have also reduce the taper rate from 63p to 55p in the pound . we provide childcare cost , cap at £ 1 , 000 for a single child and more than £ 1 , 700 a month for large family . we can even help with the advance . to ensure that work pay , we have put the national living wage for people age over 21 up by over 9 . 8 % to £ 11 . 44 an hour , as the hon . Member mention . that make sure that people be reward for the work they do , and it mean an extra £ 1 , 800 for someone work full time . we be also provide a tax cut for 27 million people by far reduce the main rate of class 1 national insurance contribution . our focus continue to be on provide opportunity for people to be support and to succeed in work , base on our firm belief that this be a sustainable way of tackle all form of poverty . at the same time , we understand the challenge that people face , and we will continue to work across Government and party to ensure food security and that the broad welfare system will support those who need it . order . I wish to inform the House that the message to the Commons from the Lords be that the Lords do not insist on their amendment to the Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Bill to which the Commons disagree . question put and agree to . House adjourn .