I rise to give my maiden speech . I congratulate you , Mr Speaker , on your position and the Transport Secretary and the Front - Bench team on their position . it be a privilege and a pleasure to follow the maiden speech that we have just hear , include by the hon . member for Hertford and Stortford ( Josh Dean ) , who , along with my hon . friend the Member for Eastbourne ( Josh Babarinde ) , significantly increase the Josh quotient in the House . if I contribute nothing else , I clearly increase the Gideon quotient by the massive number of one new Member of Parliament . I also thank the hon . member for South Ribble ( Mr Foster ) , whose public service have be endure . he have have my congratulation on that already . their speech will be a hard act to follow , but I have the advantage of represent Taunton and Wellington , so it should not be too much of a problem . I give credit to the former Conservative Member for Taunton Deane , Rebecca Pow , who will , I be sure , continue her enthusiasm for gardening and wildlife . she be , of course , a Minister with responsibility for water and for our river . I be partial to a dip in the river from time to time , so I be pleased to successfully apply for bathing water status for a stretch of the Tone in Taunton to get the improvement in water quality that we desperately need in our river down in Taunton . the River Tone be the silver thread that join Wellington to Taunton to the level , close to where the famous cake be burn near the King Alfred Inn at Burrowbridge . I also pay tribute to the former Liberal Democrat MP Jeremy Browne , the Member of Parliament for Taunton Deane from 2005 to 2015 . he serve as a Home Office and a Foreign Office Minister , and remain incredibly well like in the constituency . he be the first Member to propose a new railway station for Wellington , and I be delighted to have have the Chancellor ' s assurance in the previous debate that that project will go ahead . I be the eighth Liberal to represent Taunton in Parliament since some guy name Disraeli be defeat by the first one in the 1835 general election . of course , nothing far be hear of he — at least not in Taunton . Taunton ' s parliamentary tradition be very deep - rooted . as a county town with a castle , which today proudly house the Castle hotel and the superb Museum of Somerset support by our dynamic town council , its parliamentarian hold out in siege after siege . today , the hard work of so many people in Taunton at the Brewhouse theatre , the Southern Sinfonia , the Bluebirds Theatre Company , the Tacchi - Morris , the Willows and Wetlands visitor centre , the Creative Innovation Centre , Arts Taunton , GoCreate Taunton , group such as Amici and Voce , and the Bradford Players — I have many more — the Taunton Thespians and the @ 2 K Theatre ; and in Wellington at the Arts Centre , the Wellesley Theatre , the operatic society , and the Gaumont theatre , which once play host to the Beatles and the Rolling Stones and be now home to the bingo , all come together to mean that not only do we have a Mecca , but our area be a cultural mecca to which people come from far and wide . then , of course , there be the magnificent Somerset county ground , grace by the tower of St James and the minster , where I marry Caroline just 28 short year ago . I thank she and our child , Emily , Fraser and Fenner and Felix , from the bottom of my heart for their support . our school from North Town and Minerva to Bishop Fox ' s , Court Fields , Castle , Pyrland , Selworthy and Monkton Wood feed into our nationally renowned Richard Huish College , Bridgwater & Taunton College and University Centre Somerset , which now offer degree like nursing , in support of the superb staff at Musgrove Park hospital . funding be urgently need for the hospital ' s new maternity unit , because bucket be currently use to catch the rain in the corridor of a building build for the US army — as a temporary building — in 1940 . similarly , King ' s and Queen ' s , Taunton and Wellington ' s independent school , make a massive contribution to our area ' s local economy . we also have a successful home education community that inspire an innovative generation of young people . to all our area ' s child , I say : " be yourself . if your name be Gideon , for example , there ' s no need to change it to get elect to Parliament . " that be something I once try to discuss with the former Member for Tatton . I confess that it have take I a little time to get to this Chamber — if I have not have to deliver all those bible to hotel , I would have get here a lot quick . all those institution , together with the UK Hydrographic Office , make Taunton the ideal location for new research and innovation entrepreneur . it be only 104 minute from Paddington , so they should all come and enjoy the amazing quality of life that we offer . when they come to Taunton , they will find a ticket office at the station that be still work . I be amazed to hear the right hon . member for Aldridge - Brownhills ( Wendy Morton ) apparently still advocate the closure of ticket office — a policy about which I can say only " good luck " . to encourage people to come to Wellington , I look forward to work hard on the Wellington station project that I mention early . I invite the right hon . Lady the Transport Secretary , and the Under - Secretary of State for Transport , the hon . member for Wakefield and Rothwell ( Simon Lightwood ) , to visit the project . on their visit , I hope that they will enjoy a glass of famous Sheppy ' s or Taunton cider — or , to pronounce it correctly for Hansard , zyder — at the Ring of Bells , the Green Dragon or the Pump House in Tonedale , in a Rocket and Bird glass with some somerdale cheese and perhaps some Bumblee ' s relish , follow by a meal at Guddi and Gikki , Maliha and Taj , the little Wine Shop or Augustus . they be ideal for planning visit to key organisation in the constituency , like WPA , Pritex or indeed the 40 Commando Royal Marines at Norton Manor camp . I be delighted to support the Royal Marines , with the help of former Royal Marine Paddy Ashdown — raise an ultimately successful petition to gain a u - turn on the previous Government ' s shocking proposal to close down the entire facility . in his maiden speech the other day , my hon . friend the Member for Tewkesbury ( Cameron Thomas ) draw attention to the huge sacrifice that previous generation make so that we be all free to sit in this Chamber today . my service in the Territorial Army be pretty minimal , but my father , FJC " Jim " Amos CBE , and my mother , Geraldine Amos MBE , both serve in world war two , follow their father who serve in the trench . I remember discuss it with they all . when I be grow up , hon . member will not be surprised to hear that the atmosphere and the memory of war loom large in discussion around meal table . be it not that generation ' s courage and bravery , not only in rebuild Britain but in defeat fascism in the first place , that demand our respect ? they demand that we do everything we can to defend the liberal and democratic value that make this country so great . their bravery surely also demand that all hon . member , on both side of the House , always say no to those who would stir up division , despair and hatred for nothing more than vote , because they have nothing positive to offer people . it be the great privilege of my life to serve the resident of Taunton and Wellington — from Hatch Beauchamp , Helland and North Curry in the east to Whiteball , West Buckland , and Sampfords Moor and Arundel in the west ; and from Bishopswood , Churchinford and Stoke St Mary in the south to Pickney , West Monckton and Kingston St Mary in the north — in this House . I be here to do one thing : work for they and stand up for they to those in power whenever that be the right thing to do . I thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for the opportunity to begin that duty today .