prayer - [ Mr Speaker in the Chair ] message to attend his Majesty deliver by the Lady Usher of the Black Rod . the Speaker , with the House , go up to attend his Majesty ; on their return , the Speaker suspend the sitting . member Sworn will member wish to take their seat please come to the table ? the following member take and subscribe the Oath , or make and subscribe the Affirmation require by law : Jonathan Neil Reynolds , for Stalybridge and Hyde right honourable Sir Charles Geoffrey Cox , Torridge and Tavistock Right honourable Andrew William Murrison , South West Wiltshire Speaker ' s Statement the House have direct the Speaker to make a statement at the beginning of each Session about the duty and responsibility of hon . member . I begin by remind Members of their duty to observe the code of conduct and the behaviour code agree by the House and to behave with civility and fairness in all their dealing . unacceptable behaviour will be deal with seriously , independently and with effective sanction . the House assert its privilege of freedom of speech . that privilege be enjoy by member of Parliament only in their work in this House as private individual . we be equal under the law with those whom we represent . the privilege be there to ensure that our constituent can be represent by we without fear or favour . it be an obligation upon all of we to exercise the privilege responsibly . it be incumbent on member to be accurate in what they say in this House and to correct any mistake as soon as possible . all member can now submit write correspondence directly to Hansard to amend error of fact in their contribution , as well as be able to correct the record by a point of order . the Speaker do not have the power to police the accuracy of Members ' contribution — if only I could — and I reflect that to the medium , as well . on courtesy and temperate language , I draw the House ' s attention to the guidance on rule of behaviour and courtesy in this House of Commons . member must be mindful of the impact of what we say not only on other member , but on other who follow our proceeding . member should be hear courteously , whatever their view . in particular , Members should address the Chair , rather than each other directly , and I say to hon . gentleman , please wear a tie or you just might not catch my eye . member should remain in the Chamber for at least the next two speech , or in Question Time , for two substantive question after their own . show respect to other member . of course , I understand that new member may need a bit of time to familiarise themselves with the convention and courtesy of the House , and I will take that into account when I be in the Chair , but I urge every Member to study the guidance carefully . the use of mobile phone in this House be a privilege . please try to think about when you need they and when you use they . member should be able to ask a question without read it . let we show the ability of this House . let we show what we can do by work together . as I say , new member will need a bit of time , and I will work with all new member and take that into account when I be in the Chair , but I urge every Member to study the guidance . please read it . if any advice be need , come and check with I and the Clerks . on the criticism of other member , in this place we be honourable member , and the language that we use about each other should reflect that . if a member fall short of the standard expect of we all , there be way of deal with that — not by accusation make as sideswipe during question or debate . if we fail to treat each other with respect in debate , that diminish our work . it also risk raise the temperature of discussion outside this place , particularly on social medium , where discussion already too often descend into online abuse against hon . member . my job be to look after all member . if we show respect to each other here , I believe that the public should also show respect to member , so please let we get it right and let we work together . I do not want people to agree with each other — this could be the most boring Chamber that I have ever see , and that would not be good for I either — but please let we make tolerance and respect our main aim . it be important that hon . member can raise matter with I freely . for that reason , I keep such correspondence confidential . that include application for urgent question . I remind hon . member that it be equally important that my response , particularly on matter of privilege , be treat with the same respect . I also wish to give some advice about seek to speak in the Chamber . I take into account a number of factor when determine who to call . one of those be how often a Member speak . in other word , if you have speak much more than colleague , other will be call before you ; I ask Jim Shannon to remember that . [ hon . member : " hear , hear ! " ] I think that fall on deaf ear — [ Laughter . ] — but colleague be more likely to be call in the next debate for which they apply if they miss out in the last one . I know that it can be frustrating not to be call in a debate , or to be call very late . prioritise the debate , Question Times , urgent question and statement in which you seek to participate be one way of try to avoid that happen . staff in my office can always offer further advice . it will be very frustrating for Government Members , as there be so many of you , so remember that . do not take it out on my office ; please blame I at any time . finally , I want all member and everyone in the parliamentary community to be able to go about their work safely , both online and here in Westminster . the security of this building and those who work here depend on we all . we have a duty to be vigilant , and to assist those whose job it be to maintain this place as a safe place of work , but I also know that be a constituency MP be about meet constituent and be able to represent they within our constituency , and I take that seriously . two member lose their life not in this House but in their constituency , so whatever I can do to support you , I will . make sure that you follow all the security measure . I never want to receive another phone call like those I have previously , so please look after yourself and follow the advice . your family matter , your staff matter , and this House matter . security be at the top of my agenda . before move to the first business of the new Session , I express my good wish to all hon . member and all those who work in the House . I thank all the staff who have make this transition happen ; I really appreciate it . please , let we enjoy the next Session . outlawry BILL a Bill for the more effectual prevent Clandestine outlawry be read the first time , and order to be read a second time . Deputy Speakers before I call the Leader of the House , I can now formally announce the arrangement for the election of the Deputy Speakers . the ballot will be hold on Tuesday 23 July between 10 am and 1 . 30 pm in Committee Room 8 . nomination must be submit to the Table Office between 10 am and 5 pm on Monday 22 July . nomination form and an update briefing note with information about the election be available in the Vote Office . I call the Leader of the House to move the motion on temporary Deputy Speakers . order , that , for the period up to the first sit day follow the election of the Deputy Speakers under Standing Order No . 2A , Sir Edward Leigh be Chairman of Ways and Means , Dame Siobhain McDonagh be First Deputy Chairman of Ways and Means and Sir Christopher Chope be Second Deputy Chairman of Ways and Means . — ( Lucy Powell . ) king ' s Speech I have to acquaint the House that this House have this day attend his Majesty in the House of Peers , and that his Majesty be pleased to make a most gracious Speech from the Throne to both Houses of Parliament , of which I have , for great accuracy , obtain a copy . I shall direct that the term of the speech be print in the Votes and Proceedings . copy be available in the Vote Office . the Gracious Speech be as follow : my Lords and Members of the House of Commons , my Government will govern in service to the country . my government ' s legislative programme will be mission lead and base upon the principle of security , fairness and opportunity for all . stability will be the cornerstone of my Government ' s economic policy and every decision will be consistent with its fiscal rule . it will legislate to ensure that all significant tax and spending change be subject to an independent assessment by the Office for Budget Responsibility . bill will be bring forward to strengthen audit and corporate governance , alongside pension investment . secure economic growth will be a fundamental mission . my government will seek a new partnership with both business and work people and help the country move on from the recent cost of living challenge by prioritise wealth creation for all community . my Ministers will establish an Industrial Strategy Council . it be my Government ' s objective to see rise living standard in all nation and region in the United Kingdom . my Ministers will get Britain building , include through planning reform , as they seek to accelerate the delivery of high quality infrastructure and housing . they will also pursue sustainable growth by encourage investment in industry , skill and new technology . my Government be commit to make work pay and will legislate to introduce a new deal for work people to ban exploitative practice and enhance employment right . it will seek to establish the appropriate legislation to place requirement on those work to develop the most powerful artificial intelligence model . my Government believe that great devolution of decision making be at the heart of a modern dynamic economy and be a key driver of economic growth and my Ministers will introduce an English Devolution Bill . legislation will be introduce to give new power to metro mayor and combined authority . this will support local growth plan that bring economic benefit to community . a Bill will be introduce to allow local leader to take control of their local bus service . my Ministers will bring forward legislation to improve the railway by reform rail franchising , establish Great British Railways and bring train operator into public ownership . take together these policy will enhance Britain ' s position as a lead industrial nation and enable the country to take advantage of new opportunity that can promote growth and wealth creation . my Government recognise the urgency of the global climate challenge and the new job opportunity that can come from lead the development of the technology of the future . it be commit to a clean energy transition which will lower energy bill for consumer over time . a Bill will be introduce to set up great British Energy , a publicly own clean power company headquarter in Scotland , which will help accelerate investment in renewable energy such as offshore wind . legislation will be bring forward to help the country achieve energy independence and unlock investment in energy infrastructure . a Bill will be introduce to support sustainable aviation fuel production . my Government recognise the need to improve water quality and a Bill will be introduce to strengthen the power of the water regulator . my government will seek to strengthen the border and make street safe . a Bill will be introduce to modernise the asylum and immigration system , establish a new Border Security Command and deliver enhance counter terror power to tackle organise immigration crime . legislation will be bring forward to strengthen community policing , give the police great power to deal with anti social behaviour and strengthen support for victim . measure will be introduce to improve the safety and security of public venue and help keep the british public safe from terrorism . my government will bring forward plan to halve violence against woman and girl . my Ministers will seek to raise educational standard and break down barrier to opportunity . action will be take to get people back in employment follow the impact of the pandemic . a Bill will be introduce to raise standard in education and promote child ' s wellbee . measure will be bring forward to remove the exemption from Value Added Tax for private school fee , which will enable the funding of six and a half thousand new teacher . my government will establish Skills England which will have a new partnership with employer at its heart , and my Ministers will reform the apprenticeship levy . legislation will be introduce to give great right and protection to people rent their home , include end no fault eviction and reform ground for possession . draft legislation will be publish on leasehold and commonhold reform . a Bill will be introduce to establish an independent football regulator to ensure great sustainability in the game and strengthen protection for fan . my government will improve the National Health Service as a service for all , provide care on the basis of need regardless of the ability to pay . it will seek to reduce the waiting time , focus on prevention and improve mental health provision for young people . it will ensure mental health be give the same attention and focus as physical health . my minister will legislate to modernise the Mental Health Act so it be fit for the twenty first century . a Bill will be introduce to progressively increase the age at which people can buy cigarette and impose limit on the sale and marketing of vape . my Ministers will also legislate to restrict advertising of junk food to child along with the sale of high caffeine energy drink to child . a draft Bill will be bring forward to ban conversion practice . my government will take step to help rebuild trust and foster respect . legislation will be bring forward to introduce a duty of candour for public servant . a Bill will be introduce to establish a statutory Armed Forces Commissioner to act as a strong independent champion for our gallant Armed Forces and their family . legislation on race equality will be publish in draft to enshrine the full right to equal pay in law . my government will strengthen its work with the devolved government in Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland so that the good outcome possible be deliver for citizen across the United Kingdom . my Ministers will establish a new Council of the Nations and Regions to renew opportunity for the Prime Minister , head of devolved government and mayor of combined authority to collaborate with each other . my government will continue to support the political institution and devolve government in Northern Ireland . in consultation with all party , measure will be bring forward to begin the process of repeal and replace the Northern Ireland Troubles ( Legacy and Reconciliation ) Act 2023 . measure to modernise the constitution will be introduce include House of Lords reform to remove the right of hereditary peer to sit and vote in the Lords . my minister will strengthen the integrity of election and encourage wide participation in the democratic process . the Government will propose a modernisation committee of the House of Commons which will be task with drive up standard , improve work practice and reform procedure . my government will ensure a strong defence base on the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation ' s common value of individual liberty , democracy , human right and the rule of law . its commitment to NATO will remain unshakeable . it will maintain a strong Armed Forces , include the nuclear deterrent . to ensure that the United Kingdom ' s defence capability be match to the change nature of global strategic threat , my Government will conduct a Strategic Defence Review . my government will continue to give its full support to Ukraine and its people and it will endeavour to play a lead role in provide Ukraine with a clear path to NATO membership . my government will seek to reset the relationship with european partner and work to improve the United Kingdom ' s trade and investment relationship with the European Union . my Ministers will seek a new security pact to strengthen cooperation on the mutual threat face by the United Kingdom and the European Union . my Government will play its part in try to secure long term peace and security in the Middle East . it be commit to a two state solution with a safe and secure Israel alongside a viable and sovereign palestinian state . later this week , my Government will host the European Political Community meeting at Blenheim Palace . the Queen and I look forward to our Visit to Samoa alongside the Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting in October , and our Visit to Australia . member of the House of Commons Estimates for the public service will be lay before you . my Lords and Members of the House of Commons other measure will be lay before you . I pray that the blessing of Almighty God may rest upon your counsel . debate on the Address [ 1st day ] before I call the mover and the seconder of the debate , I want to announce the propose pattern of debate during the remain day on the Loyal Address : today — debate on the Address ; tomorrow — foreign affair and defence ; Friday — planning , green belt and rural affair ; Monday — economy , welfare and public service ; Tuesday — immigration and home affair . I now have the privilege to call Peter Dowd to move , and then Florence Eshalomi to second , the Address . I beg to move , that an humble Address be present to his Majesty , as follow : Most gracious Sovereign , we , your Majesty ' s most dutiful and loyal subject , the Commons of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , in Parliament assemble , beg leave to offer our humble thank to your Majesty for the Gracious Speech which your Majesty have address to both Houses of Parliament . happy birthday to her Majesty the Queen today . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . ] it be an honour to be ask to give thank to his Majesty . I start by congratulate you , Mr Speaker , on your election and a warm welcome to new and return member , include my right hon . friend the " late " Member for Stalybridge and Hyde ( Jonathan Reynolds ) . congratulation to the Prime Minister and member of his new Government . it be worthwhile put into context how I come to be move the motion on the King ' s Speech this afternoon . last Thursday morning , I be stand outside the Library mind my own business , watch somewhat bewildered hon . member wander up and down the corridor , tentatively put their head into the odd room that may or may not have be a broom cupboard . and they be actually the return member ! [ laughter . ] I can not imagine what it must have be like for the hundred of new member . it bring back memory of when I undertake similar meandering in the corridor of power . then come the call from the Chief Whip . my first thought be , " oh dear , what have I do ? " or not do , as the case may be . fortunately , those thought soon dissolve when he kindly ask I if I would undertake the Humble Address , which I be delighted and relieve to accept . unfortunately , I be not the most competitive sort , which be just as well . I be afraid I can not claim to be the first to achieve virtually anything in my family . it start at birth as I be the last - bear child . although I be a councillor at a relatively young age , alas , I be not the first , by a long measure , from my family . I be the leader of a council , but not the first in my family , nor even the first to unveil a plaque on a new public building — that be pretty routine among my forebear . nor will I be able to look forward to be the first person in my family to reach 100 year of age — my late grandmother , Nin , tick that box in 1984 and drive the point home by live until she be 105 . as for be the first MP in my family , I can not claim that accolade either as there be two before I . one be the Member — no prize for guess — for Bootle . until today , my position at the back of the family queue have hold sway for decade . thank to a good samaritan in the form of the Chief Whip , I be the first in my family to move the Humble Address to his Majesty . I be , as we say in Merseyside , make up . it go without say that be a Member of Parliament be an honour , but represent the town I be bear in be the icing on the cake . for those who do not know where my constituency be , it use to be a small fishing village before become a bathing resort for wealthy merchant just north of Liverpool — how time change . today , my constituency comprise a number of close - knit community that until after the war be on farmland . Ford , Litherland , Netherton and Old Roan house thousand of family after the challenge of the war , and I think that vision can be renew . another part of my constituency , Seaforth , be home to the port of Liverpool , to which I will return in future debate . the country home of the Gladstone family be in Seaforth . indeed , Gladstone write about how he have see " wild rose grow upon the very ground that be now the centre of Bootle . " another community , Orrell , expand as time go by . then there be the lovely coastline of Liverpool bay , which have Waterloo and Crosby run along its shoreline , with beautiful view across to the hill of north Wales . it be also home to Antony Gormley ' s " iron man " statue . bootle town centre be now home to many Government office , include the Charity Commission , the Health and Safety Executive and even the Office for Nuclear Regulation . give its location and major dock system , during the war , Bootle be a major target of the Luftwaffe . it be leave badly scarred , with as many as 85 % of building destroy or damage . it pay more than its fair share during that conflict . so I be proud of my community and their history , and I want the content of the Gracious Speech to be part of their future . as much as I would like to think that the Bootle constituency have the large majority in the country , so I be tell , be down to my character , charm and charisma — [ hon . member : " hear , hear ! " ] — which be well known to my colleague , I really know that it be down to the ambitious programme trail in the general election campaign and now formally set out in the Gracious Speech . I welcome a legislative programme base on security , fairness and opportunity for all , on investment , stability and reform — that be not a reference to the member opposite — and , above all , on service to our community , our constituency and our country . it be about secure economic growth , raise living standard and get Britain build again with planning reform and quality infrastructure , recognise the challenge of climate change and harness technology and the clean energy transition . great British Energy advance investment into renewable energy be fundamental . if you like , Mr Speaker , it be a new social contract that deliver attainment in education , challenge antisocial behaviour , refresh support for victim of crime , protect our border , enhance renter ’ right , offer a new deal for work people and reinvigorate our NHS , among many other proposal . a renew local democratic settlement through the devolution proposal set out in the Gracious Speech be welcome . in short , Westminster and Whitehall do not always know good . on a day - to - day basis , I be look forward to get back to work , especially with new member — the hundred of they . I will continue to work on the various all - party parliamentary group with which I be involve . the Gracious Speech include proposal for a Bill to champion our armed force and their family , with family be the key element in those proposal . I use that as a prompt to mention the armed force appg , of which I be a member . as an associate member of my local Crosby Royal Naval Association , I have link with local veteran , of whom there be over 12 , 000 in my constituency . in addition , member of my family have be in the armed force , and my mother and grandmother both receive war widow ' pension for decade , so the least I can do be participate in the armed force appg . in the last year , I have participate in the armed force parliamentary scheme with the RAF cohort , until that be so rudely interrupt by the general election . while I be always impress by inter - service collaboration , I be even more impressed by the rivalry between the service . before I bring a veil down on this part of my contribution , I want to relate to the House an anecdote — just one of many I could relate since participate in the scheme — about the nonchalant and insouciant rivalry between the service . when a member join the scheme — and it be well worth join — they will be ask to go to the Wellington barrack , nearby , to be measure up for a uniform . when I arrive , I be lead through the barrack to the store . my conversation with a member of personnel who , it must be note , be from the army go as follow : " good morning , sir . how can I help you ? " " good morning . I ' m here to be measure up for a uniform . " " and which service will you be with serve with , sir ? " " the Royal Air Force . " " in that case , sir , you ' ll be need a set of silk pyjama and a smoking jacket . " [ Laughter . ] they fit like a dream , Mr Speaker . our country face so many challenge and I believe the wide - range proposal in the King ' s Speech will go a good deal of the way to tackle those challenge , both at home and abroad . only on Saturday evening , I be at a function for one of my local charity , Sefton Women and Children ' s aid , at Liverpool FC ' s Anfield stadium , which be a real stretch as I be an Everton supporter . while I be there , I pay a visit to the memorial to the 97 victim of Hillsborough , so I want to pay particular attention to the inclusion of what have become know as the Hillsborough law in the Gracious Speech . I thank the many individual , family , survivor and the coalition of other organisation who have campaign selflessly for decade to achieve this outcome , include member of this House . it mean so much to the family of the victim of those who die and the survivor , from our city region and beyond , that the Government will be fulfil their promise to ensure a duty of candour on public servant . justice and respect at last . it be a privilege to call the seconder . may I start by congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Bootle ( Peter Dowd ) on his fantastic speech ? as the eld of three girl , we like the last one because we can blame they for everything . it be an honour to follow my hon . friend and to second the Loyal Address , not only for I but for my constituent across Vauxhall and Camberwell Green . when I be ask by the Chief Whip , my excitement be quickly replace by fear because I remember my attempt to make a Big Shaq reference during Second Reading of the Procurement Bill , which go completely over the head of the hon . member for Brentwood and Ongar ( Alex Burghart ) and indeed many other member in the Chamber . I nearly back out , but then I remember that this be my opportunity to get on record that Nigerian jollof be the good jollof , before my hon . friend the Member for Erith and Thamesmead ( Abena Oppong - Asare ) put forward any other idea . it be nearly 15 year since a Labour Member second a Loyal Address ; the last Labour Member to do so be my right hon . friend the Member for Islington South and Finsbury ( Emily Thornberry ) , my good friend . I have to say that the notice I receive when she visit my constituency be perhaps my favourite . I remember receive a note from her office say that she be go to tour the Beefeater Gin Distillery in my constituency the next evening and that I should join she . sadly , I do not drink gin — but I know that she drink my share ! I can only say that I look forward to welcome other member to my constituency many more time during this Parliament . can I remind all member that it be their duty to let I know if they be attend one of the many fabulous party in Vauxhall and Camberwell Green — otherwise I will be complain to Mr Speaker . it truly be a wonderful constituency . we have the national theatre , the British Film Institute , the Southbank centre , the Young Vic and the Old Vic , which be currently host a play about the life of an MP in which James Corden turn out to be one of their constituent — although I believe he live in California , so perhaps he should get in touch with the Leader of the Opposition . we also have the London Eye . I be sure the whole House will be delighted to know that it receive permanent planning status in May this year . that keep it safe even from the clutch and planning reform of the Chancellor and the Deputy Prime Minister . we have community from all over the world . even among the sea of England shirt on Sunday , there be a few brave spanish fan proudly wear their colour — although they may have just be SNP MPs . we be also home to a number of mps , advocacy group and journalist , which mean , when I be try to avoid a journalist or to politely decline an invitation , I often get hit with the dreaded line , " oh , but I be a constituent as well " . I do warn journalist and member that I shall continue my policy of give no special treatment when they come up to I with any casework . like many continue mp , the area that I represent change significantly at this election follow the boundary review . sadly , this mean that I no long represent one of the Brixton estate that I grow up on , my church and my old primary school . the church be central to my life and it be a microcosm of Lambeth . after mass , I can see the impatience on the face of my family as I often discuss varied casework from the congregation . I just want to reassure my hon . friend the Member for Clapham and Brixton Hill ( Bell Ribeiro - Addy ) that she be go to receive multiple blessing for all that varied casework . I know the ward that I have lose will be well represent by she . then again , base on past experience , not all the lobby journalist will notice that anything have change . if the House will indulge I , I wish to speak briefly to a couple of policy issue that be close to my heart and to the heart of my constituent and that I be look forward to work with the new Labour Government on . as an MP , one of the hard conversation that any of we will have be with the victim of violent crime . I have sit in many front room hold grieve mother and father as they tell I about their love one who have be take from they too soon . with every hug and tear wipe away , I can feel their pain and the impact that that have on the sibling and other family member . crime rip communitie apart , leave too many people vulnerable and open to exploitation . one area that I be proud to work on be prevent abuse of gang - associate girl . sadly , their mistreatment be just one example of why our street need to be safe . the Home Secretary ' s commitment to halve rate of violence against woman and improve the support for victim should be welcome across the House . over the last couple of year , I have see at first hand the impact of the cost of live crisis on my constituent in Vauxhall and Camberwell Green and on community right across the country . we also know that tackle climate change be one of the most urgent issue face the world , and that we can not delay meaningful action any long . I be therefore very pleased that the Government be commit to address both issue with an investment in the clean energy transition that will lower energy bill for household and restore the UK ' s reputation as a climate leader . but for million of work people , real change will not come without action on housing . that be why I welcome the Deputy Prime Minister ' s plan to build 1 . 5 million new home across the country , include a new wave of council house , like the one that give I and my family security . I still remember that daily commute from a B & B in King ' s Cross , and the excitement on my mum ' s face when we receive the key to permanent housing — we no long have to lug our belonging around in black bin bag . sadly , in 2024 , that be still the case for so many people . Vauxhall and Camberwell Green be also home to a high number of young people , many of whom be private renter . the power that section 21 give immoral landlord to evict tenant for no reason be an outrage . I be glad that the Government will finally ban no - fault eviction for good . lastly , I be proud to be an advocate for the eradication of HIV and AIDS — an issue on which we have make so much progress recently . alongside my fellow co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group on HIV and AIDS , in November last year I have the honour of host a reception in Mr Speaker ' s House to thank Sir Elton John for his work in this field over the last 40 year . it be a fantastic event , at which our new Prime Minister reaffirm his commitment to end new HIV transmission in the UK by 2030 . it also mean that today ' s royal event be the second in the last 12 month at which I have have the privilege of speak — because we can all agree that Sir Elton be music royalty ! this Parliament see a large churn of mps , so may I take this opportunity to congratulate and welcome new member ? Don ' t worry if you get lose ; I have be here almost five year and I still get lose . my one piece of advice be this : make sure you know where Westminster Hall be , because you will always find the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) there , on hand to point you in the right direction — after he have finish speak in whatever debate be go on that day ! although it be wonderful see so many Labour mp win on 4 July , it be mix with a slight sadness that we have to say goodbye to colleague who work across the House for their constituent with great dedication . although I be delighted to see my hon . friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Rachel Blake ) in her place on these Benches , I want to refer to the important work I do with her predecessor , my friend Nickie Aiken . as the two mp responsible for Westminster bridge , we work together in the last Parliament to commemorate the horrific 2017 Westminster bridge attack , in which six people sadly lose their life , include the late pc Keith Palmer , and to improve the safety of a very busy and active part of London . Nickie also work tirelessly to ensure that the Pedicabs ( London ) Act 2024 be bring into law , despite the persistent objection of the hon . member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) , which I be sure many new member will also get use to . I also pay tribute to the outgoing Father of the House , Sir Peter Bottomley . I remember , as a new MP , walk into a meeting of the all - party parliamentary group on vote at 16 . the room be buzz with excitement , energy and all these young people , and — to my surprise — Sir Peter be in the chair ; he really prove that age be just a number . I must mention my good friend and former constituency neighbour , the new Baroness Harriet Harman . her 42 year in office blaze a trail for the right of woman in politic and wide society . when Harriet be elect , just 3 % of mp be woman ; that figure now stand at 40 % . while there be some way to go , that rise be a testament to Harriet ' s unende work and drive never to take no for an answer . while I be daunt to have the responsibility of represent part of her former constituency in Camberwell Green , I could not have have a well example to learn from . my pledge to she and my new constituent be that I will do my good to carry on her legacy and be a strong voice in Parliament for those community . lastly , I can not think of a more fitting replacement as the Mother of the House than my good friend , our auntie , my right hon . friend the Member for Hackney North and Stoke Newington ( Ms Abbott ) . she be elect when I be just six year old , and see she in the medium , make the voice of black woman hear in Parliament , give I the confidence that I could stand here and ensure people in my community have a voice in the decision that impact they . I say to she , " we stand on your shoulder , and we respect and salute you . thank you . " I welcome the Government ' s plan to introduce draft race equality legislation to build on that work , and I look forward to work with Ministers to develop it . we should not underestimate the difficulty that both Baroness Harman and my right hon . friend have go through to make their voice hear , or the challenge they face even now , but their trailblaze example mean that those of we elect today face few challenge in represent our community , and we have more friend to go through those challenge with . because of they , Mr Speaker , a black working - class girl from a south London estate can stand before you today with the honour of second this Loyal Address . I call the Leader of the Opposition . before I turn to the Address , I be sure the whole House would like to join I in pay tribute to his Majesty the King . it be typical of his dedication to duty that , despite the medical challenge he have face , he be here today to open Parliament and will travel to the Commonwealth Heads of Government meeting in Samoa and to Australia this autumn . the King be a true model of public service . I know the Prime Minister will value his audience with his Majesty as much as I do . we all recognise that the King be aid by the constant support of her Majesty the Queen , and I know the whole House will join I in wish she a very happy birthday . today we also pay tribute to Tony Lloyd . Tony serve the people of Greater Manchester for 45 year , and for 36 of those as a Member of this House . he be a great parliamentarian , kind and wise . his family should have enormous pride in the contribution he make to this place and to the community he love and serve . they be in all our thought today . I welcome all new member to their place . be elect as a Member of Parliament be a great honour and a great responsibility . we serve our community and our United Kingdom . I know , whatever our political difference might be , we be all motivate by a desire to make life well for our constituent and to make our country strong . I know the whole House will join I in deplore the assassination attempt on President Trump . our thought be with the victim . violence and intimidation have no place in the democratic process . I commend the proposer of the Address on his excellent speech . I know the whole House will agree that the hon . member for Bootle ( Peter Dowd ) have set a high bar for speech in this Parliament . my little sister always remind I that be the young mean have to learn how to make oneself hear — well , the hon . Gentleman be the young of eight , and it really show . I have the good fortune to get to know he when he be shadow Chief Secretary to the Treasury , and he be always courteous and pleasant as my opposite number . as he outline , he come from a family commit to public service . both his great - uncle be member of this House and , although he be very modest about it , he have be in public service for more than 40 year . the new member of the House have much to learn from he . I know that I speak for the whole House in say how much we all admire his personal bravery in campaign for more victim support follow the tragic death of his daughter in a hit - and - run accident . not only be the hon . gentleman one of the more popular member of the House , as we hear , but he be also the most popular constituency MP , enjoy the big majority of any Member of this place . in a recent election , he even win an astonishing 84 % of the vote . he might be the only person who can persuade Kim Jong - un of the benefit of democracy — although " the People ' s Republic of Bootle " doesn ' t quite have the same ring to it . I wonder whether the hon . Gentleman be choose to speak today to head off the reintroduction of his ten - minute rule Bill . I speak of course of his Bill for a four - day week . I be not sure whether he have consult his whip on how compatible that would be with their desire to make Fridays a new norm sit day . I will say this to he : if they will not let he have his ten - minute rule Bill , he should work to rule — although I suspect that as a Labour Member for Merseyside he need no tip on trade union organise from a former banker . the hon . member for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green ( Florence Eshalomi ) speak with typical verve . she be inspire by a desire to serve and her strong faith , but she never let any of this go to her head . today , she be choose because of the high regard that she be hold in , but she be also one of the kind Members of this House , regularly bake Victoria sponge for her staff and other — although post the election result , perhaps red velvet might now be on the menu . she have campaign bravely against gang violence , in both the London Assembly and this House , and she be so right that we must not become desensitise to knife crime . she represent the place where she grow up , and do so with passion and determination . now that I have a lot more time on my hand , I intend to be a regular visitor to the hon . Lady ' s constituency — especially in the summer month . one of my favourite place to watch cricket be of course the oval ; as Prime Minister , I have the privilege of play there with the wonderful Ebony Rainford - Brent and the young black cricketer of the African Caribbean Engagement programme . I applaud the hon . Lady for her work with that scheme . I can reassure she that I will not go as far as the last conservative Prime Minister to speak from this Dispatch Box , who propose remove that part of her constituency to a desert island , along with his eight favourite record . the hon . Lady ' s story be truly an inspirational one . to go from care for her mother as a teenager to be a Member of this House show what be possible in our country . but the online abuse that she have receive — an experience that be far too common in this House — show one of the challenge face our democracy . the intimidation that some candidate receive in this election , both physical and digital , be completely unacceptable and be a threat to our electoral process . there can be no excuse for threat of physical violence or intimidatory protest outside politician ' home . the hon . Lady will have be pick to second the Loyal Address because the Whips Office have she down as one who will go far . may I offer some word of advice to Labour member ? on the Government Benches , life come at you fast . soon , you might be fortunate enough to be tap on the shoulder and offer a junior ministerial role . then , you will find yourself attend Cabinet , and then in the Cabinet . then , when the Prime Minister ' s position become untenable , you might end up be call to the high office , and before you know it , you have a bright future behind you and be leave wonder whether you can credibly be an eld statesman at the age of 44 . [ laughter . ] it be right to begin by congratulate the Prime Minister on his decisive victory in the election . he deserve the good will of we all in this House as he take on the most demanding of job in the increasingly uncertain world in which we now live . the Labour party have successfully tap into the public ' s desire for change , but it must now deliver change , and we in the opposition will hold it accountable for deliver on the commitment that it make to the british people . in the national interest , we will not oppose for the sake of it , but when we disagree with the Government , it be our responsibility as the Opposition to say so . what will guide we will be our principle : sound public finance ; a belief that people know how to spend their own money well than government do , and that private enterprise , not state intervention , be the key to deliver growth and prosperity ; public service that work for those who need they ; an education system that give everyone the good start in life ; secure border ; and a strong national defence . I welcome the Government ' s decision to bring forward Martyn ' s law . I be sure that the Prime Minister will find , as I do , that one of the most humbling part of the job be see people whose life have be touch by tragedy not turn to anger or bitterness , but campaign to ensure that other family do not have to endure the same pain . I particularly commend Figen Murray for her work to get this law on to the statute book . I can assure she that this measure will command consensus in this House , and we will work with the Government to make sure that it become law as soon as possible . I be also glad that the Government will continue with plan for a smokefree generation . I know there be deeply hold view on both side of this issue , and I have deep respect for those — especially on my own Benches — who disagree with I on this question . measure that end access to product be never easy , but I believe that ensure that our child can be the first generation that do not have to suffer the false choice between quit smoking and not , because they will have never start , be a truly worthy aim . it will make we a healthy , fair country where people live long and well life . the first duty of Government be the defence of the realm , and we be fortunate in our country to be protect by armed force who be unrivalle in the world for their professionalism , bravery and skill . I know the whole House will agree that they be truly the good of we . every month in my previous job , I become more concerned about the threat to our country ' s security . we live in an increasingly uncertain world . we need great investment in our military if we be to deter our enemy and defend our interest . as I warn early this year , there be an axis of authoritarian state that be a threat to our value — freedom , democracy and the rule of law — and we must collectively stand up to they . the world be more dangerous now than it have be at any time since the end of the cold war , so I urge the Prime Minister to commit to boost defence spending to 2 . 5 % of gdp by 2030 . if we lead the way on this issue , we can make 2 . 5 % the new NATO benchmark for defence investment . that be the single good way to strengthen the alliance . it would show the Americans that we do not expect they to bear every burden , and would show President Putin that NATO be serious about bolster its defence , and be the most effective way to deter further act of russian aggression . in the past few year , there have be an impressive amount of consensus across the House on foreign policy — on the importance of support Ukraine , and on the centrality of NATO to our national defence . in that spirit , I commend the Prime Minister for his work at the NATO summit , and I be glad that he and the Secretary of State for Defence have take such rapid step to demonstrate that , although the Government have change , this country ' s commitment to Ukraine ' s security remain constant . I also welcome the visit of the right hon . member for Tottenham ( Mr Lammy ) to the middle east . it be of fundamental importance to this country that , as we make real progress towards a two - state solution , our friend and ally Israel have a right to defend itself and to live in peace . let I turn next to another crucial issue face not just our country but the broad western world : illegal migration . the fundamental question be what to do with people who arrive here illegally but can not be return to their home country . our approach be to send they to a safe third country ; the Prime Minister be clear that he would scrap those plan , and I acknowledge that . our fear remain that without such a deterrent the country will end up have to accept that a large number of those who cross the channel illegally will end up remain here . how to prevent that be something that the Government , I know , will soon look to address . when it come to legal migration , I urge the Home Secretary to retain the measure that we implement , which be forecast to halve net migration in the next 12 month . if I may turn next to the economy , I understand well that the Chancellor be keen to paint as bleak a picture as possible , but I would gently point out that that be not exactly what the fact say . with inflation at 2 % , unemployment at 4 % and the fast grow economy in the G7 so far this year , the Labour party have inherit an economy that be already on an upward trajectory . the Government have set out plan to strengthen the role of the Office for Budget Responsibility , and we will examine those proposal carefully , but the work of the OBR already mean that Labour Members have the full detail of the public finance when they set out their manifesto . the OBR have rightly take away from government the ability to make forecast say what they want they to say , but that have also take away from Oppositions come into government the ability to say that they do not know the true state of the public finance . as Paul Johnson of the Institute for Fiscal Studies have say : " the book be wide open , fully transparent . " in his word , try to pretend that thing be bad than expect " really win ' t wash " . Labour Members promise no tax rise on work people and no plan for tax rise beyond what be in their manifesto in full knowledge of the public finance . it would be difficult for they to claim that thing be bad than they think and then renege on those pledge , and we will hold the Government to their promise come the Budget . I note the plan for new employment legislation . in this country , our unemployment rate be far low than the european average , and that be thank in part to our flexible labour market . I urge labour not to impose new burden on business . business leader themselves have warn of the unintended consequence of those plan — that they could lead to firm be less likely to invest and less likely to hire , so increase unemployment in the long term . I far note the Government ' s desire to impose new , potentially rigid legislation on technology such as artificial intelligence . we be third only to the US and China in the size of our fast - grow technology sector , and we lead the world when it come to AI safety . we should all in this House be careful not to endanger this country ' s lead position in this field , which will drive growth and prosperity for decade to come . although today ' s King ' s Speech contain a slew of Bills , what be miss be a concrete plan to tackle the unsustainable post - covid rise in the welfare bill . without action , the cost of provide benefit to the working - age population with a disability or health condition will rise to £ 90 billion — more than we spend on our national defence , school or policing . that be not only unsustainable , but unfair to taxpayer . that be why in government we have lay out a plan to reduce the welfare bill significantly , but crucially to support all those who could do so to go back into work . I hope the Government look at those proposal when they have the time to study they in detail . on the conservative Benches we will continue to advocate for a welfare system that be compassionate and fair to those who need it , but fair too to those who pay for it . the Government have set out plan to change the planning system . we will of course study those thoroughly as well , as we all wish to see more home build and the planning process speed up . however , I would say that a system that do not allow local people to have a say will damage public consent for more housing in the long term . I regret that there be no mention in the King ' s Speech of farming and rural community , much like my own , but I hope in time that the Government will bring forward proposal . turn to net zero , this country have decarbonise quick than any other major country , and we have manage to do that while grow the economy . as a country and across this whole House , I know we will all be proud of that achievement . the Government plan to decarbonise the grid by 2030 , but there be a real danger that , if the government put the speed of do that ahead of family finance and our energy security , we will again lose public consent for the measure necessary to ensure that we actually reach our 2050 net zero target — a target on which there be genuine consensus between our two party . as even one of the Prime Minister ' s own supporter have warn , this 2030 plan " just mean we have to import our energy . strategically we become more vulnerable . we pay more money for our energy . " I hope that the Energy Secretary reflect on those thought . lastly , the Government have set out plan for reform to the other place . look at the Government Benches , there can be no doubt about their ability to get they through this House , but the effect of the change will last long beyond this Parliament and long beyond our tenure in these job . I would suggest that , when it come to constitutional reform , it would be good to proceed on a cross - party basis , rather than to use a simple majority in this House to push thing through . that consensus should include the Cross Benchers , whose convenor would be remove by the Government ' s proposal . I also suspect that the public would prefer the Government to prioritise practical , real - world issue over constitutional wrangling . however , I welcome the news that the Government have pause their plan to force member of the other place to retire at 80 . that proposal always feel like it would be a blunt instrument . indeed , in the Dissolution honour , the Prime Minister nominate , rightly , the former right hon . member for Derby South , who will be a strong addition to the other place , despite the right hon . Lady be already over the retirement age that the labour manifesto propose . let I close by say that we of course recognise that the british people have entrust the Labour party with the task of govern our country . on our side of the House , we will fulfil our duty , as the loyal opposition , professionally and effectively . across this House , we be all , first and foremost , patriot . we all wish to see our country and our people flourish and succeed . in that spirit , I wish the new Prime Minister and the new Government well . I now call the Prime Minister . thank you , Mr Speaker . I join the Leader of the Opposition in his tribute to his Majesty the King . it be so heartening to see he in his rightful place , deliver the Gracious Speech . I be sure that the whole House will not mind once again wish he a speedy recovery . I also join the right hon . gentleman in wish her Majesty the Queen a happy birthday . we also wish President Trump a speedy recovery from the appalling attempt on his life at the weekend . I speak with President Trump on Sunday night , to pass on our good wish and also to share our revulsion at the senseless violence which have no place in democracy . the last time that we debate the Loyal Address and I stand at the Opposition Dispatch Box , I could see for the first time the then new plaque , now behind I , commemorate the memory of Sir David Amess . I know how hard that loss be for Conservative Members . now , stand on this side of the House , I can see for the first time , in front of I , the plaque to our dear friend Jo Cox , with her word that catch the air of this Chamber even more at a moment like this : " More in Common " . while our thought at this time be of course with President Trump and the american people , we can not think that this be something that only happen elsewhere . we must heed the word of President Biden to lower the temperature of our democracy , work across our disagreement and find each other ' s common decency . I congratulate the England football team on their achievement in the Euros , which the Leader of the Opposition and I be talk about this morning . yes , the trophy elude we again , but the team can be proud of another exceptional performance — something I be sure the whole House would be only too pleased to recognise . we pay tribute to Gareth Southgate , who shoulder the burden of national leadership with such dignity . this government have be elect to deliver nothing less than national renewal , to stop the chaos of the past 14 year , turn the page on an era of politic as noisy performance , and return it to public service and start the work of rebuild our country — a determined rebuilding , a patient rebuilding , a calm rebuilding . it be a rejection , in this complicated and volatile world , of those who can only offer the easy answer , the snake oil charm of populism . as the past 14 year have show , that road be a dead end for this country . it do nothing to fix our foundation , and the british people have reject it , as they have throughout our history . what people really want be change , and change be what this Government of service will deliver : a King ' s Speech that take the brake off our economy and show to the british people that politic can be a force for good ; the vehicle for improve the life of million , no matter who they vote for . this be a day when we get on with the serious business of government , yet a House with no time for levity would go against the grain of our tradition , so it be fantastic to hear my hon . friend the Member for Bootle ( Peter Dowd ) in such fine fettle today when he propose the Humble Address . he speak with great passion , as he always do , for his constituency , which be famous , as he mention , for the Antony Gormley sculpture on Crosby beach . that work of art be entitle " another Place " : a collection of gently rusting figure for whom the tide be perpetually come in — a solid grounding should my hon . friend ever consider a career in the other place . I be sure that the House will agree that my hon . friend be also one of the warm and most generous member . that generosity extend , ahead of a previous election , to an offer to hand - deliver conservative leaflet — a commitment to the democratic process that should be applaud , not least because it result in a stonke increase in his majority for Labour . as anyone who know my hon . friend will confirm , although he do like to relax with a glass of wine and listen to Engelbert Humperdinck , for he family always come first . the Leader of the opposition refer to my hon . friend ' s daughter , and grow up he be care for by his four sister . now , he be never happy than when he be with his grandchild , who be convinced that he know Mary Poppins personally — a belief that , I note , he have never discourage . he have be a tremendous servant to our family — the Labour family — and we thank he for his outstanding speech today . the address be second by my hon . friend the Member for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green ( Florence Eshalomi ) . it be a fitting tribute for a royal occasion , as I be tell that she be know as " Queen Flo " on Instagram . the House will know she as a tireless champion for her community , as well as a found member of one of our most vital affiliate : the labour friend of karaoke . in fact , I be reliably tell that Queen Flo do a mean Queen Bee , which we look forward to hear at Labour conference . truly , it be a fantastic speech — another demonstration that my hon . friend be a shine example of our movement . she be a young carer when grow up , and be a fighter for their cause , on AIDS and HIV , on the health inequality that still deliver poor outcome for black woman , and on sickle cell , which her late mum suffer from . I know what it be like to watch your mum move in and out of hospital as a child , so I respect and admire the way my hon . friend now champion young people from poor household and fight for the opportunity that they deserve . perhaps most powerfully of all , my hon . friend have speak about her own experience of arrive at the scene of a stabbing , and have rightly demand that we never allow ourselves to become desensitise to the tragedy of knife crime . as a fellow inner - London MP , I know how much this be hurt our city , as it be hurt town and city across the country . I know how much potential be lose , and how many family fear that their child could be next . so be under no doubt : turn the tide on this violence be absolutely central — a key mission that this Government of service will take on . both speech be in the fine tradition of this House . let I follow the Leader of the Opposition and mark the passing of our colleague in the traditional way . since the last Gracious Speech , the Labour party have lose a stalwart of our movement with the passing of Tony Lloyd , who serve , in 36 year of distinction , the community of Rochdale , Manchester Central and Stretford . I have the chance to speak to Tony just day before he leave we , when he be leave hospital to go home . he know that it be for the last time and that he would not see a day like this . without be partisan , I can tell you that he would have love to have see the House set up as it be today . he would have tell we , use his experience , to use every precious moment that we have to serve those community that he hold so dear . that be what he stand for : the good of our movement . he be a champion of politic as a force for good . that be the great test of our time . the fight for trust be the battle that define our political era . it be a task not just for the Government but for the whole Parliament . we be all responsible for the tone and standard that we set . I want to thank the right hon . Gentleman , the Leader of the Opposition , because in every exchange that we have have since the election and in his word today , he have go well beyond the usual standard of generosity . I thank he for that . in that spirit , this King ' s Speech pick up some of the important business not conclude in the last session . on football governance and the reduction of smoking , we hope to proceed in a manner that recognise the previous consensus . we will also carry forward the Holocaust Memorial Bill so that we build that memorial next to this Parliament and ensure that every generation reaffirm our commitment to " never again " . we will also honour the promise that I and the Leader of the Opposition make to the family of Martyn Hett and all the family affect by the horrific event in Manchester that day . Figen Murray , Martyn ' s mum , walk 200 mile to tell we that Britain need that law quickly . I tell she then that she would get that from a Labour Government , and we honour that promise today . I be grateful for the indication of the cross - party support that we will have on that important provision , because the security of the british people be the most fundamental priority of any Government , and whether our fight be against terrorist , the vile criminal smuggling gang that weaken our border or foreign power that threaten the security of this nation , we will leave no stone unturned when it come to keep the british people safe . we will recognise the bravery of those on the frontline of keep we safe with a new armed force commissioner . that be not just a name or a role , but a strong and independent champion for those who have commit to the ultimate service as a way in which we can show our respect . we will also move quickly on the lesson from the infected blood scandal that the House debate in almost the final act of the last session : a day when we — all of we — undertake a solemn responsibility not just to deliver justice to those people , but to take on the work of prevention , to ensure that those lesson shape the future of public service in our country . because scandal like infected blood , Windrush , Horizon and Hillsborough be unite not just by the scale of the injustice , but by the indignity that the victim and their family have be put through merely for stand up for truth and justice . so it be high time to bring in a duty of candour — the Hillsborough law — because a Government of service must also be a government of accountability and justice . that be what service mean . I thank the Prime Minister for give way during his excellent speech , outline the hope and renewal within the King ' s Speech , which be much need in constituency such as mine , Luton North , where over 45 % of child be grow up in relative poverty . what reassurance can he give I and my constituent that he personally take this issue seriously and that his Government will address it ? let I reassure my hon . friend and the whole House that I take child poverty extremely seriously . I be proud of the last Labour Government ' s record on reduce child poverty ; they clearly have a strategy , and we will have a strategy . I be very pleased to have announce today the taskforce that will lead our strategy to reduce child poverty . no child should grow up in poverty . we will work across the House on that issue . I be grateful to the Prime Minister for give way on his newly announce taskforce , which Beth Rigby announce on Twitter as we be all in this Chamber . can the Prime Minister outline how many child will remain in poverty while that taskforce undertake its work , which ultimately will lead to the same conclusion that we be propose — to scrap the two - child benefit cap ? I do welcome this , and I know that it be an issue across the whole House — I do not think there be a single member who do not care about child poverty . the point of the taskforce be to devise a strategy , as we do when we be last in government , to drive those number down . it can not be a single issue , but one that cross a number of strand , and we will work with people across the House in order to tackle it . what matter be the commitment to drive those number down . that be what we do when last in government , and we will do it again . rise — I will make some progress and then give way . I respect the tone of the Leader of the Opposition ' s contribution , but I can not stop my mind from wander back to nine month ago when he be at this Dispatch Box . his great political hero , Nigel Lawson , once say , " to govern be to choose . " every day serve the people of this country be a chance to make a difference for they . the last king ' s Speech be the day when the veil of his choice slip , and we all see his party content to let our country ' s problem fester and to push aside the national interest as they focus almost entirely on try to save their own skin . we will have time over the week , month and year ahead to debate the measure in this King ' s Speech and the choice of this government , but I defy anyone on the Opposition Benches or elsewhere to look at the ambition and purpose of our intent and not to see a return to the serious business of government . no more wedge issue ; no more gimmick ; no more party political strategy masquerade as policy . this be an agenda focus entirely on deliver for the people of this country — legislation for the national interest that seek only to fix our foundation and make people well off , and to solve problem , not exploit they . rise — I will just make some progress . with each day that pass , my Government be find new and unexpected mark of their chaos : scar of the past 14 year , where politic be put above the national interest , and decline deep in the marrow of our institution . we have see that in our prison , writ large . we have see it in our river and sea , even bad than we think . we have see it in our council , push to the brink by the previous Government and now unable to deliver even basic service to child with special educational need . we have already take the first step on so many of the priority we put before the british people . the work of change have begin , but we know — as they do — that national renewal be not a quick fix . the rot of 14 year will take time to repair . I be grateful to the Prime Minister for give way . he talk about priority . of course , people in rural community around the country see the vast majority that the right hon . and learn Gentleman have assemble , and they be afraid . they see a manifesto in which just 87 word be about farming . they see a King ' s Speech with no mention of rural community or priority . will the Prime Minister please take this opportunity to reassure people in rural and farming community that his Labour Government will take notice of they ? order . intervention be one thing , but this be not the good time to actually make a speech . let I take this opportunity to reassure those in rural community . I grow up in a rural community myself . if we look at the place now represent on the Labour Benches , we can see the reassurance that have be give and will be give again . the King ' s Speech that we have bring to the House today be a marker of our intent : not only a certain destination for the future of this country , but a new way of governing ; a Government of service guide by clear mission , with a long - term plan to fix the foundation ; a plan that start , as it must , with our economy . under the watch of the right hon . member for Richmond and Northallerton ( Rishi Sunak ) , the last Parliament be the first in modern history to leave living standard in a bad place than it find they — the consequence not just of Tory irresponsibility , but of a more pervasive inability to face the future ; a ducking of the hard choice ; eye fix always on the horse trading of Westminster politic , rather than the long - term national interest . will the Prime Minister give way ? I will in a moment . we do not just turn the page on that today ; we close the door on it forever . the Budget responsibility Bill will protect the living standard of work people from the chaos they endure under the last government — a commitment , no matter how fierce the storm , to economic stability as the foundation we build on . that be a change Labour party at work . and then , on that foundation , we take the brake off Britain and go far and fast on measure to generate high economic growth — worker and business unite in the cause of wealth creation . we will reform the planning rule , a choice ignore for 14 year , to build the home and infrastructure that Britain need . we will level up right at work , a choice ignore for 14 year , to deliver security and dignity at work . we will create a new industrial strategy ; invest in clean , cheap british energy ; harness the power of artificial intelligence ; improve our public transport ; confront our historic challenge on technical education ; transform our skill agenda in partnership with business ; and push forward devolution to the city , region and council of England . a plan for wealth creation that will finally lead we out of the pay more , get less doom loop that be the last government ' s legacy . let I be clear : we will work with anyone invest in the future of our country . will the Prime Minister give way on that point ? I will just complete this point . I say that we would serve everyone , whether they vote for we or not , and I mean it . let I say directly to those on the Opposition Benches that if you be invest in the success of your community , we will work with you . this be a new era . we be turn the page , return politic to service , because that be what the people of this country want to see from their politician . and service be a strong bond than political self - interest . that be what " country first " mean — the only way we can restore trust and the reason this Government of service be elect . we be also elect to repair our public service with investment and reform to make they once again beacon of justice for the community they serve — a signal to our country of the cause that fire national renewal . my determination be for everyone in our country — England , Scotland , Northern Ireland , Wales ; no matter where they start in life — to feel that success belong to they . it be a cause that I believe unite this House and indeed the people of this great nation . will the Prime Minister give way ? I will . [ hon . member : " Hooray ! " ] may I commend the Prime Minister ? there be many in this House , on both side of the Chamber — not only in his party , but on the Opposition Benches — who welcome his election as Prime Minister and look forward to the delivery of some feel - good factor for all of this great nation of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland . well together be what I always say . perhaps even those in the Chamber who have different idea think the same . in my provincial paper two week ago , it be recognise that Northern Ireland be very much part of the Prime Minister ' s 10 - year plan . will he outline exactly what that plan will be for Northern Ireland ? can he ensure we that our position will never weaken and always get strong ? Jim , you will definitely be at the bottom of the list now — don ' t worry ! I be grateful for that intervention . it be very important to I , and to my government , that within day of be elect I go to Scotland , Northern Ireland and Wales with that message about work together . as the hon . Gentleman will know , I work in Northern Ireland for five year on reform to the Police Service in Northern Ireland . it matter to I that we make progress on all matter across all our nation , and that be the way in which we will operate as a Government . it be a statement of intent that I make in those early day , and let I say , in direct answer to the hon . Gentleman ' s question , that I will continue in that vein . as well as maintain our plan to cut waiting time , we will modernise the Mental Health Act 1983 and finally drag it into the 21st century . we will raise standard in our school and improve the confidence , the wellbeing and the happiness of our child , because that be so often the barrier that hold they back . we will also work on landmark legislation on race equality , and tackle the structural injustice of unfair , discriminatory pay . Britain have come a long way on such matter — one look at this Parliament show that we be move forward , and I recognise the effort of so many in this House , on all side , to tackle this injustice — but we can still do more , and therefore we must and we will . we will also begin work on ban conversion practice , and will bring forward tough new protection for renter . those be promise that have linger in the lobby of good intention for far too long . we will signal our intent to transform society with measure on crime and justice that will not only rid our street of antisocial behaviour , but launch a new mission to reduce violence against woman and girl by 50 % . in this , we be inspire by the work of unbelievable campaigner : Mina Smallman , Claire Waxman , Melanie Brown , and my friend John and Penny Clough . I will never forget the day John and Penny come to my office and tell I what they have be through just to get justice for their daughter Jane , murder in the car park of the Blackpool hospital where she work by the man await trial on multiple charge of rape she . I give they my word then that I would do what I could , not just for John and Penny and Jane but for all the Johns , Pennys and Janes in our country ; but it be an enormous undertaking . I wish it be not , but it be . just listen to the contribution make every year in this House by my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) , a grim reminder of just how many woman be kill every year by domestic violence . and yet , as everybody who work in public service know , Government can make or break a life . I have see it myself , as a public servant , and I also know from those campaigner what service can do when it listen and empower people far beyond the wall of the state . so this be how we will go about our business : mission - drive , focus on ambitious goal , bring together the good of our country , commit to the practical difference — big and small — that we can make together . that be the reward and the hope of service , the business of change , and the work of this Government of service that we will take on . we will stop the chaos , fix our foundation , and take the brake off Britain . this be a King ' s Speech that return politic to serious government , that return government to public service , and that return public service to the interest of work people . that be the path of national renewal , the rebuilding of our country , and we take another step today . order . I call the Leader of the — [ interruption . ] order . please , let we show respect to each other . let we not set off on the wrong foot ; we want to be on the right foot . I call the leader of the Lib Dems . on behalf of the Liberal Democrats , I add our sincere thank to his Majesty King Charles for his Gracious Speech . like other party leader , I wish he well as he continue his recovery , and I join they in send our happy return on the birthday of her Majesty . as we remember member who be kill in service and condemn the appalling assassination attempt on President Trump , we should all commit ourselves to a new politic , whereby we disagree with respect , listen to each other and try to bring together the dialogue on politic in our country follow the division we have see . may I join other in pay tribute to the late Tony Lloyd , who champion many campaign and issue in this House ? I have the huge privilege of join he on an all - party trip to Israel and Gaza , and one of his commitment be to peace in the middle east . he want justice for the Palestinians and a two - state solution , and let we all commit ourselves to that again . I also pay tribute to the hon . member for Bootle ( Peter Dowd ) and for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green ( Florence Eshalomi ) for their accomplished speech in propose and second the Loyal Address . I know the hon . member for Bootle come from a political family — he explain that in some detail — and I believe that his great - uncle Peter , who be once the Labour MP for Preston South , later become a liberal councillor in Liverpool . so may I say to the hon . Gentleman that if he do follow in his great - uncle ' s footstep , he will not be the first in his family to see the liberal light ? our door be always open . the hon . member for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green make an impressive mark in her first Parliament , as she campaign on issue such as knife crime , the NHS and housing . she speak eloquently on an issue that be close to her heart and mine : care . she speak movingly about how she care for her mum when she be just a very young child , and about how she learn at a young age about all the different painkiller need to treat her mum . as someone who believe that we need to hear the voice of carer in this Chamber far more often , it be a pleasure to listen to her speech today . I be leave in no doubt that she will make an even big mark in her second Parliament . while I be pay tribute , let I add our thank to the Three Lions , who captivate the whole nation and come so agonisingly close to end all those year of hurt . they do we proud , and let we hope the Lionesses retain their european crown next year . I welcome the Prime Minister to his place , and congratulate he and his party on their election victory . as he say , they now have an enormous undertaking , and we wish they well . I read somewhere that the Prime Minister apparently surf to power on a wave of conservative failure , but may I say to he gently , and with a pang of envy , that watersport be my thing ? the challenge await the new Government be certainly great . Set against the challenge backdrop , there be much to welcome in the programme set out today , not least the Government ' s focus on get our economy grow strongly again . the Prime Minister be right to say that build more home be an essential part of that , as we can see from the work of many brilliant liberal Democrat council , from Cumbria to Eastleigh and , in my own area , the royal borough of Kingston . the good way to build the many extra home we need , especially social and affordable home , be to properly engage local people and community , and bring they along with we . that be the community - lead approach that we on the liberal Democrat Benches will continue to champion . I be delighted to see that the leader of the Liberal Democrats seem to be openly advocate the work of Eastleigh borough council . may I just remind he that the council be build double the number of house require only because his party leadership have get it into £ 800 million - worth of debt and it need to pay off the debt that it accrue ? I be delighted to say that today we welcome my hon . friend the Member for Eastleigh ( Liz Jarvis ) , the new Member for that constituency , to the liberal Democrat Benches . I be sure she will have all the answer that the hon . Gentleman need . but growth and house building be not the only challenge , crucial though they be . I be sure that all of we across the House , as we knock on door during the election campaign , hear the same common refrain from people of all background and all walk of life : that nothing seem to be work as it should , from the health and care crisis to the sewage scandal to the cost of living . the british people have overwhelmingly reject the past out - of - touch conservative Government . they have go , but after so many year of be take for grant , many people have simply lose faith in our political system to solve their problem . we on the liberal Democrat Benches recognise the scale of the challenge now face the new Government . they have a big job to do , and so do we . we will work hard on behalf of our constituent . we will scrutinise the Government ' s plan carefully and strive to improve they , and we will oppose they when we think they have get it wrong , but where they act in the national interest to solve these problem and improve people ' s live , we will support they . one issue that come up more than any other at door after door — I be sure it be the same for member of all party — be the issue of health and care . patient be wait week to see a gp or an NHS dentist , if they can find one ; more than 6 million people be wait on NHS waiting list ; ten of thousand of cancer patient be wait month to start urgent treatment ; patient be stick in hospital sometimes for week , ready and want to leave but unable to do so because the care home place be not there or the care worker or support for the family carer be not in place . fix this crisis in our NHS be essential , not only for people ' s health and wellbeing but for the economy and for growth . only if we get people off the waiting list and into work can we get our economy grow strongly again . the right hon . Gentleman mention the delay and waiting time in the NHS and social care , but how much do he regret his role in the five year he spend in a coalition with the Conservatives create that situation ? I be disappoint in the hon . Gentleman ' s intervention . we can all go back to thing that other party do in government and say that they be wrong . I would just say to he that I come to this task now in a spirit of constructive opposition to work for the good for our country , and I hope that he and other Members will do that too . I welcome a number of the measure for the NHS in the King ' s Speech , include on reduce waiting time and particularly on mental health . I want to work with the Government to improve those ; they be long overdue . of course , I also urge the Government to look at the proposal on the NHS in our manifesto , on boost gp number so everyone can get an apartment within seven day or 24 hour if it be urgent , on improve access to dentist and crucially to local pharmacist — if more people can get the care they need early and locally , few people go into hospital — and on give cancer patient the care they deserve with a cast - iron guarantee that they will start treatment within two month after diagnosis . this be the scale of the ambition we need for our NHS right now , and I hope the Government will show it . there be another part of this crisis that need to be fix through urgent attention , and it be care . I speak during the election about my own caring journey , first for my mum when I be a teenager , then for my dear nana , and now as Emily and I care for our severely disabled son , John . I have be incredibly touch by the response from colleague across the House who have reach out to tell I how important it be that we speak out on care , for people who need care and for carer , both professional social care worker and the family carer who be look after their love one . I have have the chance to hear from carer of all age all over the country as they share personal story with I . they include the couple who care for a son with similar care need to John ' s , who reach out to say that they know what it be like to worry about what will happen when they be no long there to look after their disabled son . they offer I advice , and I be touch by their kindness and generosity . each care story be so different yet , in many way , they have much in common . we all share a special , wonderful bond with the one we care for , and we all share the feeling that no one else understand we . caring have be in the shadow for far too long . let this be the Parliament in which carer ' voice be hear and we become the caring nation . caring mean people do extraordinary thing every day for the one they love , often in the face of difficult circumstance , physical challenge , no break , mountain of paperwork , countless appointment and endless phone call . they try to navigate a broken system that be simply not design to work for carer . we on the liberal Democrat Benches will do our very good to get a fair deal for carer , whether on carer ' s allowance or on the big challenge of fix social care , so that our love one get the support they need , when and where they need it . of course , this will not be easy . fix social care after year of neglect will be incredibly complicated , but we can not shy away from it . although it be not in the King ' s Speech , I be encourage by the report that the Government be plan a cross - party commission on social care , which we urgently need to find a solution that stand the test of time . I hope we will hear more about that from the Government very soon . fix social care be not only essential to give people the care and dignity they deserve and to support family carer . without it , we can not fix our NHS . it would be a big enough task if health and care be the only major crisis face the Government , but clearly it be not . inflation may have finally come down to normal level , but the cost of living crisis persist . family and pensioner still face record energy bill and sky - high housing cost and food bill . they need support and understanding , which begin with the Government ' s promise to be fiscally responsible — that would mark a big and welcome shift from the previous Government ' s rather reckless approach to the Budget . with energy bill forecast to rise by 10 % in October , clearly we need bold action to bring down cost , from insulate home to expand renewable power . the Liberal Democrats have a proud record of invest in renewable power , almost quadruple it when we run energy policy . our policy drive the cost of renewable electricity below the cost of fossil fuel - generate power . I hope the Government will act with the same level of ambition to tackle not only the cost of live crisis but climate change too , because urgent action be need to prevent catastrophic climate change . we have show how it can be do , and how do it well will benefit consumer , the economy and the environment . we welcome the Government ' s focus on this challenge , and we will push they to meet it . we will also push the Government on another environmental challenge : end the sewage crisis . for anyone who still doubt , the election campaign clearly show the strength of public anger about the pollution of our river , lake and beach . the Government have make welcome noise about hold the water company to account and make sure they put these environmental issue before profit , but the Liberal Democrats will push Ministers to act as quickly and decisively as possible to put an end to this appalling scandal . health and care , the cost of living , climate change and sewage , these big crisis just get bad and bad over the last year of the previous Government , whose failure to address they be a big part of why people ' s trust in politic be so low . this year ' s british social attitude survey find that 45 % of people — a record high — almost never trust the Government to put the national interest first . I be sure I speak for everyone in the House when I hope that this Government will prove that wrong . but restore public trust and confidence in our politic be a major task for we all , right across this House , no matter our party . I think there be two part to how we restore that trust . the first be by tackle the root cause of the many scandal that have cause so much harm and do so much damage to public trust , from Hillsborough to Horizon to infect blood . we welcome the promise Hillsborough law , with its statutory duty of candour on public official , but we urge the Government to go far in this area . give the vital role that whistleblower have play in expose these scandal , I urge Ministers to look at our proposal for strong protection for whistle - blower , include a new office of the whistleblower . the second way to restore trust be by transform our politic , so they be relevant , engaging and responsive to people ' s need and dream . the measure that the Government have promise to strengthen democratic right and participation be therefore welcome , as be the principle of shift more power out of Westminster and Whitehall , so local decision be make by the people for they and the community they live in . I be sure the Prime Minister know that the devil be in the detail , so we will scrutinise those plan carefully when they come . we fear they will not go far enough . it will not surprise anyone in the House to hear that we on the liberal Democrat Benches believe that political reform must include electoral reform : proportional representation give everyone equal power to hold member of Parliament properly to account . maybe even the Conservatives support that these day . I note that accord to the same survey on british social attitude , the majority of the public agree with we . I have focus on the many big domestic challenge face we , but I will conclude by touch on the enormously challenging international picture . from Vladimir Putin ' s appal war in Ukraine to the dreadful conflict in Israel and Gaza , with the terrible humanitarian catastrophe there and hostage still be hold by Hamas , these be tumultuous time indeed . they demand that we work together with our ally through international institution . and yes , that mean work constructively with our european neighbour , to rebuild the tie of trust , trade and friendship with our european friend that have be so badly damage by the Conservatives . as liberal , we believe that the UK can be an incredible force for good when we stand tall on the world stage , champion the vital british value of democracy , liberty , human right and the rule of law . when the Government do that , they will have our full support . I close by pay tribute to those on the frontline of that effort : our armed force , deploy around the world . whether secure NATO ' s flank in eastern Europe , combat Daesh terrorist in the middle east or support peacekeeping mission in Africa , they serve our country with incredible courage and professionalism , and we all owe they an eternal debt . it be a pleasure to follow the right hon . member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) , but I confess I be a little disappointed with he because today he walk into the Chamber . he could at least have try a bungee jump or maybe freewheel on a bicycle . I applaud he for his effort in the campaign ; they keep we all entertain and , look at the number of member on the liberal Democrat Benches , clearly pay dividend . I welcome and thank my hon . friend who propose and second the Humble Address , but I say to my hon . friend the Member for Bootle ( Peter Dowd ) that he may be the young of eight , but I be the second of 10 . New Members of the House will hear a lot about Big Brother , but I can tell they that they have a big sister here to support they ; I be sure my hon . friend will support they too . after 19 year in this place , I know my way around a bit , although I too still get lose , so they should not be worried about that . I be delighted to hear the speech of my hon . friend the Member for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green ( Florence Eshalomi ) . I first come across she when she be a Member of the London Assembly . I know then that she have something special about she and we see that here today . I draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I spend nearly a decade chair the Public Accounts Committee in this place , in the last Parliament and the previous two . in that role , I see many egregious example of incompetence , bungling and waste , whether it be water company , school building with reinforce concrete and other thing fall down , the run sore of rail infrastructure , the national embarrassment of defence procurement and the scandal of personal protective equipment procurement during covid . time and again , we see Government bungle , poorly draft contract , lack of oversight , dodged responsibility , endless excuse , and the taxpayer pick up the tab . no wonder people be so angry at the election . no wonder they vote for change and for my right hon . and learn Friend the Prime Minister . now the true extent of the Tory mess be come to light . as my right hon . friend the Chancellor have reveal , it be even bad than we think . she have open the book , look under the bonnet and see the true extent of the mess that be now for a Labour Government to clear up . the previous Government partie , squabble and help their mate , but they do not fix the roof when the sun shine . they trash the joint . from austerity to the PPE scandal and Trussonomics — remember that ? — they weaken the fundamental of our economy and stretch our public service to breaking point . in my annual report , which be one of my last report as the Chair of the Public Accounts Committee , I list what I call the " big nastie " , some of which the Chancellor be reveal to we now : 700 , 000 pupil be in school that be not fit for purpose ; there be in fact far few new hospital than the 40 that be much vaunted and they be never go to be deliver to the promise timetable ; and the gape hole in our defence budget . I certainly applaud the approach of this Government , and it seem some consensus from the Opposition Benches , that we need to see an increase in defence spending . the consequence of the mess that have be leave behind by the previous Government be human . accord to the House of Commons Library , nearly one fifth of child in my borough of Hackney live in absolute poverty . four in 10 child in Hackney live in poverty after housing cost be take into account , accord to the Joseph Rowntree Foundation ' s recent figure . my constituency be in the top 5 % of english constituency with child who be income deprive . that be the shameful legacy of 14 year of failure . in one of the world ' s great and rich city — a bus ride from the financial powerhouse of Liverpool Street — no child should be cold or hungry , or lack a winter coat or decent shoe . school in Hackney have kit room for the child who turn up without the requisite uniform and lend it for the day in return for a token like their Oyster card . no parent should be have to skip meal to feed their kid , which be happen too often in Hackney and elsewhere in the country . no child should be arrive at school with a rumble tummy , which be why I welcome the breakfast club that we already have in Hackney and the fact that one of the first act of this Labour Government will be to make sure that every child in primary school have a decent breakfast . when we talk about stagnant wage , low productivity , flattening growth , lack of investment in skill and school , the abolition of sure Start , and the gig economy , there be this human cost . right now , in a Hackney school , there be a hungry child whose huge potential be be waste , whose opportunity be stunt and whose life chance be hobble . when I first arrive in this place 19 year ago , I have to tell people about the good thing that be go on in Hackney , because people have write off my borough as a poor and deprived area where thing do not happen . now people think of the Shoreditch hipster , the tech company and the city fringe , but underneath that there be this huge poverty and opportunity be stunt for our child . this be the mess that this government now have to clear up . another example of that be the housing crisis . a safe , warm and affordable place in which to live should be , and be , a basic right . we all need a roof over our head before we can do anything else in our life — whether it be study , work , or bring up our family — yet , after 14 year , my constituent face a housing crisis whatever the tenure . accord to Hackney council , the median household income in Hackney be just under £ 36 , 500 a year , yet the median house price in my constituency — which have double since 2010 — be £ 610 , 000 . for those who have not catch up on the math yet , this mean that a house cost more than 16 time the median household income . accord to the Land Registry , the average first - time buyer in Hackney pay just under £ 600 , 000 : over half a million pound for a first - time buyer . well , that ' s not most first - time buyer , be it ? it be the lucky few who either have a very good job , or have get help from the bank of mum and dad or other family member . I do not deny they that help , but it should be an opportunity available to all . it be utterly ridiculous that we be in this situation . young professional with double income be simply unable to afford a deposit to get a place of their own and be often stick live with family member into their 30 . other be force into rent accommodation , with no security of tenure and rent so high that there be no spare money to save to get on the housing ladder . accord to the work of the Public Accounts Committee , around 13 % of privately rent property — 589 , 000 property — pose a serious threat to health , so landlord be get the rent but land their tenant in hospital with lung disease , mental illness or physical injury . I hope the Chancellor ' s ear be prick up , because the Public Accounts Committee estimate that this situation cost the NHS £ 340 million a year . that go to the broad point : economic inefficiency , child poverty , the housing crisis and fail public service all cost we more money . the economic of decline be an expensive business , but — we see hope now , with this Labour Government — investment in job , home , school , skill , road , the NHS and tackle crime save the public money down the line . as I be often say when I have the honour of hold the role of Chair of the Public Accounts Committee , a penny of waste be theft from work people ' s pocket , and a fair economy be also an efficient one . I warmly welcome the measure in this King ' s Speech under a Labour Government ; how nice it be to say those word after 14 year . since 5 July my colleague in the Cabinet — I be about to say the shadow Cabinet ; old habit die hard — include Labour Secretaries of State , have move into action from the inertia of what go before , and that mean that we be on the road to recovery . it be go to be a long haul , but I welcome the measure to support start - up and tech company , particularly as I represent Shoreditch , where so many be base ; to revive skill ; to modernise our health service , particularly prioritise mental health ; to get more teacher into Hackney school ; and , crucially , to build more affordable home . we need many affordable home in inner London , in constituency such as mine , where social housing be the only option for so many people . only last week , a woman come to my surgery who have four child in a one - bedroom flat , and her elderly , sick father have have to come to live with they . that be how the family live — four child in a one - bedroom flat — and it be not uncommon at all . we need to drive change to deliver housing around the country , but particularly in the inner city . I also recognise the lead and step change in tackle the issue of net zero to decarbonise our economy with investment in renewable , insulation , carbon capture , and green job — thing I have examine a lot over the last decade and on which we have see the previous Government fail so often . above all , I welcome the commitment of his Majesty ' s Government — our Labour Government — to kickstart growth in our economy . without steady , sustainable economic growth and without the proceed of growth fairly share across the nation , we will continue our national decline . instead , in this King ' s Speech , we be offer a hopeful prospectus for change , the prospect of progress , and a new sense of national renewal and hope after 14 year . we know it will not be easy , nor will it be as quick as we all impatiently want it to be . as a former Minister and have be a member of the Public Accounts Committee for 13 year , I know that modernisation and reform can be frustratingly slow . I have see many good ambition frustrate by poor delivery . if I may proffer a word of advice for those on the Treasury Bench , find themselves newly surround by eager official , many of whom come in front of my Committee , and red box , it be this : " please stay focused . look up at that horizon . think of the people who send we here , who vote for that change you want to deliver and we all want to see . keep an eye on that guide goal of growth . test every proposition that come across your desk against that simple question , ' do this promote or hinder growth ? ' " successful government , as the Prime Minister say , be mission lead . of course we want to tackle poverty , build home and transform our NHS , but the main mission be growth , because without that we can not deliver any of the other . I call the leader of the SNP . I begin by congratulate the Prime Minister on his first king ' s Speech . I be sure it be an incredibly important moment for he and his family and I wish he well over the month to come . I be sure it will be an incredibly challenging time , but I repeat my good wish to he and all his new colleague beside he on the Government Benches . I want to reflect first that , at Prime Minister ' s question on the day the election be call , I perhaps goad the former Prime Minister in respect of call a general election — indeed , I think I refer to he as be feart should he not do that . I be not sure entirely who out of the two of we fare bad from his decision to do so ; maybe that be something we can both reflect upon in due course . the opportunity now in front of this Labour Government be enormous . they have a parliamentary majority that will go down in history , and that majority afford they something incredibly important : the ability to deliver change . what that change look like , and perhaps more importantly what it feel like , for people in their home be so important . my colleague and I on the SNP Benches will do everything we possibly can to be as constructive as we can — [ interruption . ] we will ! however , I be a bit disappointed today , not necessarily by some of the thing that be in the King ' s Speech , but by some of those thing that be not . in that regard , I bring the House ' s attention to the amendment that my colleague and I , ably support by other member from across the Chamber , have table in relation to the two - child benefit cap . that iniquitous , heinous policy be bring in by the former Conservative Government in 2015 . each and every one of we in this Chamber note that it retain child in poverty — hundred of thousand of child across these isle . in Scotland alone , it impact 27 , 000 household and it be estimate that 14 , 000 child would immediately be take out of poverty be it to be scrap , but it be not mention in the Government ' s programme for government today . instead , all we have hear be that a taskforce will be create , with no timeframe for that taskforce and no indication when it will conclude . all the while , those child will remain in poverty . surely it should be the bare minimum expectation of a Labour Government that they would seek to do everything they possibly can immediately to lift child out of poverty , and I be particularly interested in the view of Scottish Members of Parliament from the Labour party in this regard . could the hon . Gentleman explain to the House why the SNP Government in Scotland , who have the power to do that , have not ? I would be more than happy to enlighten the hon . gentleman in that regard . as he know , in the UK , we have reserve policy and we have devolve policy , and some 70 % of welfare policy be reserve to this Parliament . the Scottish Government have seek over recent year to mitigate the bad excess of the Conservatives . with some £ 8 million - worth of money that we could spend on other thing , we choose to mitigate Tory policy — include , of course , the like of the bedroom tax ; I be sure he would be keen to see those on his own Front Bench mitigate and end that particular policy . however , we do that within the confine of the financial remit set , in large part , by this place . if the hon . Gentleman be suggest — and I be sure some of his scottish colleague would agree with he — that the Scottish Government should mitigate , he and the Government should outline where that money should come from . should it come from Scotland ' s NHS , our school , our police or our budget for young people ? the reality be that the constraint place upon Scotland by this place do not afford we the opportunity to mitigate , and frankly , I find it absurd and deeply disingenuous to suggest that the remit of Scotland ' s Parliament should be to mitigate Westminster . our horizon should be so much great than that . I return to the point that I be make . scottish Labour Members supposedly agree with the Scottish National party that the two - child cap should and must be scrap , so how will they vote ? will they follow the lead of their Prime Minister in London , or will they follow the lead of the leader in Scotland and respect the view of the people they be send here to represent ? despite my great disappointment , there be one area in which I hope the Prime Minister can put a smile on my face : GB Energy . I be moderately surprised that we have not yet have an announcement that it be to be headquarter in Aberdeen — perhaps in the Aberdeen South constituency that I represent . indeed , Aberdeen and Grampian chamber of commerce hire a van that have be patrol the street outside Parliament today call for it to come home — that be the only time I will ever use those word — and it should come home straight to the energy capital of Europe . although I would welcome GB Energy ' s placement in Aberdeen , I also want to see much more detail about what it will deliver . if I have read correctly , a cumulative £ 8 . 3 billion will go towards GB Energy over the next five year — £ 1 . 6 billion each and every year — but one hydro pump storage project in Scotland would almost blow that entire budget apart . we know that GB Energy will not sell energy , we know that it will not distribute energy , and it appear that it will not generate energy . it have be suggest that it will be an investment vehicle for project to go forward , but if it be cap at £ 1 . 6 billion a year , I must question the Government ' s ambition . how do that deliver the change that be require ? the change that they previously agree to require some £ 28 billion each and every year . what a contrast with the ambition that they once have . of course , net zero will be absolutely crucial to our economic future — to the growth and prosperity that we all want — but ultimately that growth can come about only through productivity . I would like to hear more from the Labour Government , who have a significant majority , about what they will do to reverse some of the conservative party ' s policy on migration . Migration dramatically and drastically impact on high education institution in Scotland and in the constituency of each and every Labour Member . we know that university be a key driver of productivity . I wish to seek consensus across the House on migration , which might be moderately difficult give some of the people who now sit behind I . we need to stand up and be bold and brave in the face of those who seek to demonise migration and other those who come to work in our public and private sector , care for we in our hospital and teach our child . we should seek to increase migration , increase our economic output , grow our economy and enhance our community . brave politician would do that , and I hope that Labour Members share that bravery . of course , our economy be not just about net zero , productivity or migration ; it be also intrinsically link to our relationship with the European Union . I look forward to see what the Government come forward with in respect of their propose new relationship with our friend and ally in Europe . we should be seek to rejoin the european single market ; we should be seek to rejoin the european custom union . it make sense to all of we . the politician in this House be afraid of do so , but they will come to realise that the only way to achieve the aim that they want to achieve be to do just that . on all those issue and so many more , we will seek to be a voice of reason in this House and to work constructively with Government Members . over the come hour and day , I look forward to hear their contribution and what they intend to bring to our national discourse , as we all try to improve the life of the people who we be so fortunate to represent . I gently say to Members that we have a lot to get in today , so I would be very grateful if they try to keep speech below , or up to , eight minute . I add my commendation for the speech that introduce this debate . I have only one anecdote about my hon . friend the Member for Bootle ( Peter Dowd ) , who be in my Treasury team : he be a fan of Shostakovich , and on one occasion , we go to the Royal Albert Hall to listen to a Shostakovich symphony . it be the symphony with which Dmitri Shostakovich upset Stalin , and it almost cost he his life . we think the performance be superb , but there be two grumpy old man in front of we , and at the end of the symphony , one turn to the other and say , " Stalin may have have a point . " we enjoy it . I think the speech today be superb . I want to get to the business of the next few day : examine the King ' s Speech . we all come to this House with a mandate from our constituent , so it important that we bring to the House their experience . when the exit poll land on election night , in my community , there be almost a collective sigh of relief that we be end 14 year of Conservative Government . my constituency , like many other — my hon . friend the Member for Hackney South and Shoreditch ( Dame Meg Hillier ) have say this — could not take any more , to be frank . in my constituency , like that of my hon . friend , one in three child be live in poverty ; accord to the statistic , some of they be live in destitution . I have get a housing crisis , even though 4 , 000 property be be build in the centre of my constituency . Most of my constituent can not afford they ; those who have scrape the money together and have get leaseholder access to those property be now be hit by massive increase in service charge , and some of they want to hand the key back . I have get rent spiral out of all control , and I have get slum housing reappearing . the back - to - back have be reinvent in my constituency , where one family will rent the front of a normal house and another family will rent another floor or the back . turn to employment for my constituent , wage have virtually be freeze for the past 14 year . I have Heathrow in my constituency ; people would fight to get a job at heathrow because the wage be so good , but not any more . we be run low pay campaign , and insecure work be endemic in my constituency : it be Heathrow Ltd that start fire and rehire . the same could be say about public service — we will all say this . in my area , the NHS be on its knee . I just do not know how the staff have cope . in the teaching profession , the stress be such that we can not retain teacher : no matter how committed they be , they do not survive under that sort of pressure . for many of our area , social care be almost non - existent , and I meet family member who be care for other family member and unpaid carer . it be now almost inevitable that if you be look after someone in your family — someone who have a disability or whatever — you be live in poverty as a result of the lack of support . yes , people vote for change , but we on the Labour Benches have to be realistic and have some humility in our assessment of the election . only one in five of the population vote for we , and what worry I in my constituency be that our turnout have go from 70 % when I be elect in the 1990s to 51 % in this election . we need to be wary of that , and to understand the reason for it . the More in Common poll that be publish this week confirm the scale of disillusionment that there be with politic overall , which have be reflect in some of today ' s debate . my fear be that we now have other on the political scene , in this country and elsewhere , who will feed on that disillusionment . we should guard against the far right mobilising again , as have happen in Germany , France and Italy . we as a Labour Government have to deliver . as for all government , the honeymoon will inevitably be short - live , but I welcome the King ' s Speech because it do set out the element of a programme for rebuild our country . I must say that there be element I have to smile over in that much have be draw from the 2017 and 2019 manifesto — but maybe we should not mention that — such as on employment right , the new deal , rail nationalisation , bus , great British Energy and the national investment fund , which reflect the national investment bank that we put forward then . in fact , there be section of the King ' s Speech that could almost be the work of my hon . friend the Member for Middlesbrough and Thornaby East ( Andy McDonald ) . People want and expect delivery soon rather than later . I want to focus on four area of policy on which I be desperate to see change . the first be poverty . child poverty have to be our priority . there be 14 million people live in poverty , include 4 . 3 million child , with 1 million in destitution . I never think that , in my lifetime , we would ever debate destitution again in this House , but destitution there be . I welcome the announcement today of the taskforce that will look at poverty overall , but I have to say that set up a taskforce be one thing , and acting be another . there be one simple act , and we all know it , that could lift 300 , 000 child out of poverty this month : scrap the two - child limit . I be in this House when the Tories introduce it , and it be introduce as part of stigmatise all those on benefit . in my speech I say that " I would swim through vomit to vote against the Bill " . — [ Official Report , 20 July 2015 ; Vol . 598 , c . 1314 . ] give some of the speech from the Tories at the time , I almost have to . it be an appalling form of attack on the poor in our community . we need to lift that stigma — that impact — but we need to do it quickly . yes , let we set up a taskforce by all mean , but we must produce a timetable that within week we will scrap the two - child limit . the argument be whether we can afford it and whether it will be within our fiscal rule . many member will know that , over the last few week , the OBR have lift or revise its growth figure upwards . the International Monetary Fund have dramatically increase the growth figure upwards . that have nothing to do with the Tories build a new economy or anything like that ; it be the natural business cycle , and it be also part and parcel of some company recognise that a Labour Government be come . let we take the benefit of that . it be no long an offence against the fiscal rule : the resource be there and we can lift those poor child out of poverty with this simple act . so I appeal to my own party — to the Labour Front Bench — to by all mean get the taskforce work , but to now commit ourselves to scrap the two - child limit and do it rapidly . on employment , the new deal for worker , which we develop when we be in opposition , be now go to be legislate on . I want no more water down , and at the same time I do not want it delay by endless consultation . we have consult at length for five year nearly : it be there and it be ready . we want to scrap fire and rehire and we want to scrap zero - hour contract , but one of the most important ingredient of that legislation should be the extension of sectoral collective pay bargaining . so far , we have commit to do that in the social care sector , and I welcome it , because that be where poverty wage really be be pay . however , we now need to start , as we promise before , to extend that across the economy . we can build into the Bill the mechanism for do that stage by stage — yes , with discussion and so on , but it can be do effectively . in some area , sectoral collective bargaining be scrap only a few year ago , for example in agriculture . one area in which I would like to ensure that we have that be transport , and then we would have no more p & os . we need to be honest about the state of our public service , in term not only of their delivery but of their finance . I do a report last September with Andrew Fischer on the incoming Labour Government ' s in - tray . it be calculate that , between 2010 and now , the Conservatives cut £ 80 billion . no one expect that £ 80 billion to be discover overnight , but we need a plan for reinvestment over the length of this Parliament . that mean be honest about the debate that we must have about not just this Budget but future Budgets . People recognise that we will need to find the money . yes , we will get some from growth , but 1 % of growth bring in about £ 12 . 5 billion . to achieve 1 % of growth be hard work ; it require investment and it take time . if we can get back up to 2 % , fine , but that will take time . in the meantime , we need the resource for our public service , and that mean that we have to have an honest debate about taxation and the distribution of wealth in our country . it mean , for example , that we need to grasp the nettle of level capital gain tax with income tax , make sure that our tax relief and the corporate welfare that be go on be effective and not simply subsidise profit . in addition , I believe we must have a discussion at some stage about what we do about wealth distribution overall . there have be a lot of discussion about reform of public service . I agree with that , but I want reform to be place in the hand of the frontline staff themselves — the expert in deliver the service — and for they to then work with the recipient of those service , the patient and other , so that there be co - production . the disability movement have develop the theme of " nothing about we without we " , and that should apply to every sector of public service , so that we work not just with those who deliver the service , but with those who receive it . I also agree with what have be say about unpaid carer and the way in which we treat disabled people who , I be afraid , now live in poverty and be stigmatise under the previous Government . we can come to those debate as we run to the next Budget . my conclusion be carpe diem — seize the moment . we have a large majority . we must beware the danger of the far right mobilising if we fail , but we must also recognise the potential that we now have . finally , I do not know what it be like in other constituency , but overhang our whole debate be the humanitarian crisis in Gaza , come in night after night and see more child be slaughter and war crime be commit . I do not think we will solve this problem unless we seek an immediate ceasefire that will enable we to have the hostage release . however , I think we can take some immediate step : stop the arm sale to Israel , respect the International Criminal Court and ensure that we recognise that war crime should be punish . since January , I try to mobilise the previous Government to accept , as other government across the world have be do , seriously injure child from Gaza so that they could come here for treatment , but not one visa have be issue to a palestinian child for that purpose . I have write to the Foreign Secretary and the Home Secretary , and I hope that our Government can welcome those child here so that they can receive the treatment they need , before hopefully they can be return to a palestinian state that we recognise and that live in peace . it be a pleasure to see you in the Chair this afternoon , Mr Deputy Speaker , and an honour to speak so early in this debate and to follow the right hon . member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) . his speech be precede by the contribution of two Opposition party leader , the right hon . member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) and for Aberdeen South ( Stephen Flynn ) . they all demonstrate that you can not keep a good Parliament down , Mr Deputy Speaker . we already have the Liberal Democrats try to rerun the referendum on proportional representation ; the Scottish National party want to rerun the referendum on Brexit and , of course , on scottish independence ; and I encourage the right hon . member for Hayes and Harlington to continue a healthy debate about matter such as the two child policy , because his speech have just bring into question the argument that the big someone ' s majority , the more control they have over their party . I look forward to an entertaining Parliament in that respect . this be my first opportunity to draw the House ' s attention to a report produce by the Liaison Committee in its die moment in the previous Parliament — it be actually publish after Parliament have rise but before Dissolution — about strategic thinking in government . I ask myself whether the King ' s Speech reflect comprehensive strategic thinking in government . I think it do in part , but certainly not in other . it be a significant moment when a newly elect Government ' s Gracious Speech be deliver , because that be when the rhetoric of the campaigning hit the reality of govern . how strategic be this Government ? much of the speech be good . budget responsibility and the prioritising of wealth creation be good thing , but how be that to be achieve with enhance employment right , which we know be a threat to the flexibility of the labour market and which business be already warn will destroy job ? what about all the new sup - quango , which be rather an echo of Labour government past ? what about a new Great British Railways , like the fail Strategic Rail Authority under John Prescott ? what about a new Great British Energy ? I do not suppose that be go to be quite like the old Central Electricity Generating Board , but the limit on its authority and spending power make it rather less significant , as the SNP leader , the right hon . member for Aberdeen South point out . what about a new industrial strategy council , which be rather like the unlamented National Enterprise Board set up by Tony Benn in 1975 ? the Prime Minister claim that this be " nothing less than national renewal " , but I suggest that these be little more than the recycling of old , fail idea . I do not think Lords reform be go to be a first - term priority for a Labour Government . it be probably just red meat for a few Labour mp . there be to be a new House of Commons modernisation committee , but that be 25 year out of date . the House of Commons modernise itself without have a modernisation committee . be that really deserve of such prominence in a King ' s Speech as a strategic priority of the Government ? the Government appear to be deaf to the irony of the conflict within their own programme . they say that " great devolution of decision making be at the heart of a modern dynamic economy " , and I welcome that , but it be only to do thing like take control of bus . it be certainly not to take control of where the house be build and of the housing target in different area . I welcome the commitment to speed up infrastructure investment . to that extent , I hope the Government will welcome the inheritance from the previous Government of the freeport , particularly the Harwich and Felixstowe one in my constituency . that freeport be an initiative that the Government should be pleased to advance . it have the support of all the political party in Harwich , which be commit to its success . give the new Government ' s commitment to funding infrastructure , I look forward to meet the new Minister to discuss how we can develop the Bathside bay to generate industry and job for local people . I think the Government will find that the Norwich - to - tilbury pylon proposal be a less welcome inheritance . I welcome their objective to " unlock investment in energy infrastructure " , but I would like to assist with that , because it do not mean that the Government must blindly approve of anything that National Grid produce at first flush and think be a good idea . the Norwich - to - tilbury pylon proposal have be much in the national news because of the local campaign against the desecration of unspoiled countryside . this be not opposition for its own sake . the submission that I will make later this week in response to the current consultation will set out how the objective for Norwich to tilbury can not be achieve with the current proposal , and can be achieve more quickly and at a low lifetime cost than that of the current proposal . despite what the Prime Minister try to insist be his programme , it be still dominate by the short - term tactic of gain power and retain it . we hear that in his jibe at the Conservative party rather than address the fundamental challenge that threaten our national survival — and I put it at no less than that . what be those challenge ? they can be summarise as the six big Ds : debt ; digitisation , which be transform the way we live our life ; decarbonisation ; deglobalisation , which have throw globalisation into reverse as a result of the pandemic and rise international tension ; demographic , which be afflict every OECD country ; and defence . I very much welcome the appointment of Lord Robertson to help oversee a bipartisan defence review . it will find that we need to commit far more than 2 . 5 % of gdp to defence to help prevent another major war . I urge hon . member to keep think about Ukraine ; I be very glad the Prime Minister mention it in his remark . if Russia succeed in Ukraine , we can say goodbye to european and transatlantic security . one of the finding of the Liaison Committee ' s report on strategic thinking in government be that long - term strategy can be truly sustain only if it last across successive Parliaments and periodic change in government . what come to mind include continuous at - sea deterrence , the counter - terrorism strategy , the operation of GCHQ and indeed the survival and continuation of the national health service and the achievement of net zero . I hope that the Government will use their considerable majority to offer to make the radical reform which , for example , the NHS need , by find the cross - party consent and consensus need to drive through such reform , as they will undoubtedly create division in both party . the Government have an unrivalled opportunity finally to tackle the social care question , but , if we want it to stick , it must be agree across the House . the report cover the capacity of Whitehall for strategic thinking , how the centre of Government can lead strategy more effectively , how strategy must engage the public — particularly young generation — in govern for the future , and how scrutiny by Select Committees can promote strategic thinking in government . I very much hope that if right hon . and hon . member have not already read just the first chapter of the report , they will do so , because it be a manifesto for how Parliament and Government should work together to help promote the kind of country that we want , which be so threaten by the international event that we see . I see Ministers sagely nod — and I appreciate that — but the Government have yet to respond to the report . there be two proposal in it that I very much hope they will adopt . one be that they will recreate a national school for government to train our civil servant and spad — and even Members of Parliament — in what strategic thinking really be instead of just scrabble around with focus group and opinion poll to tell we what to do . the other be that the House should establish a committee for the future , as be happen in other Parliaments around the world — we draw a lot on international experience — which should be look much far ahead than most Select Committees have time to look . that would be a great reform for the Government to bring in . it be a real pleasure to speak in the King ' s Speech debate , set out Labour ' s new programme for government after 14 year of disastrous Tory Government . it be also an honour to take part as the MP for the new constituency of Widnes and Halewood , in which I be bear and breed . the Prime Minister have make it clear that the Labour Government will be one of service , with a clear mandate to deliver the change that the country desperately need . the King ' s Speech show that Labour plan to govern with serious solution . labour will make the difficult decision need to fix the basic problem face the country . I be really pleased that we have make growth a central plank of the Government ' s policy , include of course the development of an incredible industrial strategy . we must also address the serious and long - term productivity problem that the country have face . I hope that the new Government will get on to that quickly , because it be really hold we back . the new Labour Government of ours have a daunting job in tackle the many challenge face the country after 14 year of mismanagement of our economy , epitomise by the disastrous Liz Truss Budget as well as the run down and underfunding of our public service . the NHS and social care be in crisis , with people die because of delay in treatment . wait in hospital corridor be now the norm . local authority be also struggle to remain financially viable . rather than stick our head in the sand or pull the wool over people ' s eye as the Tories do , Labour will be straight with people about the problem that we have inherit . the truth be , there be not a switch that we can flick to fix the country ' s problem overnight . this be a packed king ' s Speech , but , as there be limited time to speak , I will focus on just a few area . I really welcome the decision to bring rail service back into public ownership — to improve passenger journey and deliver well value for taxpayer — and to establish great British Railways . anyone who have travel on Avanti West Coast will know of the many and continue problem it have have over a long period of time , whether it be the fact that train be late or cancel , the wi - fi do not work , they do not have any hot water or whatever . we know that it have be a failure , so I welcome a decision on that . the announcement of a Hillsborough law be really important . it would place a legal duty of candour on public service and authority . this Government be determined to rebuild trust , foster respect , improve transparency and accountability , and address the culture of defensiveness in the public sector . I pay particular tribute to my right hon . friend the Member for Liverpool Garston ( Maria Eagle ) , who have work tirelessly to get to this stage , and I be pleased that the Government have adopt it . many colleague work with she and other on this particular policy . she and I go back many year and have work closely with the Hillsborough family . I be at the Hillsborough disaster . we know how terrible the experience have be for those family , and the fight they have have over the year . the way that they be treat by the establishment be a scandal . I hope that they will be somewhat relieved and pleased to see this progress . tackle the mental health crisis and modernise the Mental Health Act to make it fit for the 21st century will help deliver the Government ' s mission to see people live healthy life for long , and will put patient at the centre of decision about their health . I also want to raise the massive challenge of child and adolescent ' mental health waiting list and the service itself . I would like the Government to focus on that particular part . I be sure that every Member of Parliament here will have many constituent come to they about this issue . we must also have a proper plan to try to do all we can to reduce suicide , particularly among young man . I welcome any change and involvement from the Government . a lot have be say about planning , but high street have not really be mention . many of we in our constituency face real issue with high street , which have be under massive pressure , with many shop close down . there be a need for renewal and regeneration . I hope that the planning Bill will look at that . I welcome the reform of bus service . particularly over the past 10 to 15 year , many community have become more isolated because bus service have be cancel or reduce . I hope that with this change in policy we can make some improvement to the many community who feel isolated across this country , not least in my constituency . in the King ' s Speech , the Government make a clear commitment to NATO . they say that it remain unshakeable and that they will retain a strong armed force , include a nuclear deterrent . I welcome that from the Prime Minister and the Government . the strategic defence review , which have be commission by the Prime Minister and will be oversee by the Defence Secretary , be very welcome as a root and branch review . those of we who have be around here for some time and have have to put up with a Conservative Government who have let down the armed force , put this country ' s defence and security at risk , will welcome this review . we must look at the situation : we have the small Army since napoleonic time . even a previous Conservative Secretary of State say that the armed force have be hollow out . we have a shortage of munition . there be major problem with procurement and waste money , which need to be address . I be sure that they will be a priority of this new Government . the focus have always be and will continue to be on Ukraine , and I be pleased to see the commitment to Ukraine in the King ' s Speech . we face a real problem with Russia , China and North Korea and the threat they pose to world order and to democracy in particular . these be some big challenge that we must get to grip with . we must look again at our armed force and how we can improve they , get well funding and , importantly , ensure that the funding they get be spend correctly and efficiently , and not waste . that be important for the future . I commend the hon . gentleman for what he say about the armed force . in Northern Ireland we have always have a large recruitment , both to the regular force and to the territorial . do he agree that when it come to recruitment for Northern Ireland , extra money should be make available to ensure that those who want to join can do so ? I understand the hon . member ' s pitch for extra resource for Northern Ireland , but I think he will recognise that there be now a major recruitment crisis in the armed force that have be ongoing for many year . it be not just an issue of recruitment ; it be also about retain good , experienced people . that be what we have to really focus on . I be sure the defence review will look at that . it be also about look after our service personnel , ensure that they have well housing and well facility , and that their pay be right , and ensure that we have proper service and support for our veteran . I agree with he that recruitment be a challenge . we have to sort that out , because it be weaken our armed force . I know that time be get on , so I just want to say a couple of thing in conclusion . we still have a cost of living crisis . living standard be low at the end of the last Parliament than they be at the beginning of the last Parliament , and the tax burden be at its high rate for year . our first King ' s Speech will be a downpayment : just the start of the legislative plan that Labour will set out over the next five year . to transform our country , we will need to be patient and have focus work over a long period of time . as the Prime Minister have make clear , this will be a Government of service that will do thing differently and properly . rather than gimmick and Bills that do not work , Labour will be focus on real change for work people . it be good to take part in this debate on the Loyal Address . in particular , it be good to see his Majesty attend the House today . I wish he well in his recovery and pay tribute to his record of service to our nation . I congratulate all new member who have enter the House . I thank the proposer and the seconder of the motion , the hon . member for Bootle ( Peter Dowd ) and for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green ( Florence Eshalomi ) , who be no long in their place . it be fair to say — this be a note for all new member , as well as exist member — that their speech be make in the fine tradition of the House . the start of the Parliament be one of the few moment we have to unite , to respect each other ' s speech and contribution , and to become accustomed to the tradition , formality and convention of the House . at the same time , we get to do the great thing that we all love : represent our constituent . for new member , in particular , this will become the regular pattern of their work in this House and a reflection of the hard graft that go in . we have all come fresh from a general election campaign where a lot of graft be put in , but we be now here , elect to represent our constituent , in the normal tradition , on the issue that may sometimes divide we , but where we can advance their cause through legislation . I want to begin my contribution on the Loyal Address by say a few word about the new Government ' s tone over the past 12 day . it be an inevitable feature of a new Government that they spend their first few week continue campaign rhetoric — we will hear it a lot — and talk down the record of the previous Government . however , much be advanced over the last 14 year . we be proud of our record and the transformation we lead , include on public finance . these be big thing that do not just happen over a few week and month . we be proud that we transform the public finance , from the Government borrow £ 1 in every £ 4 to a much well fiscal position today . it be not easy to get into these fiscal position and those on the Labour Benches should reflect on the fiscal position they inherit . we be proud of support the creation of 800 job per day , on average , have fast economic growth than many of our competitor , cut the tax burden on income and fuel duty , oversee an increase in doctor and nurse work in our NHS , more teacher , school raise standard , and , on law and order , get more police officer on our street fight crime . that be a record we be proud of . it be important to reflect on that . if I may say so , in a very subtle , gentle and polite way to those now on the Government Front Bench , it be all very well try to rewrite history through slogan . it sometimes take attention away from the responsibility of have to govern and make the big decision and choice . let I touch on some policy area . the Government have already present a programme in one area of which I have some experience , have be Home Secretary for more than three year . we have hear quite a bit about immigration and crime , but although we have not see the detail , what we have hear from the Government so far differ little from some of the measure that be already in place . one example be the propose UK border security command , which we actually set up just over four year ago to co - operate with international partner . some of my colleague who follow I in the Home Office will recognise much of this . they will recognise the need to take action in the english channel and work with our intelligence and security agency in order to do so , and they will recognise the appointment of a clandestine channel threat commander and the establishment of joint interagency task force , because they happen under the last government . I want to commend the work of our international law enforcement agency and our international partner . not only do they work at an exceptional level , but they work to save life , and I think we should reflect on that , because only last week we see more life lose in the channel . we also introduce robust measure to tackle criminal gang and county line and put together safe street policy together to protect our constituent , but some of those measure be oppose by those who be now in government when they sit on these Benches . it be important to recognise that some thing do not happen overnight . there be no single solution to some of these issue , but through collaboration we can drive the right outcome . we hear the Prime Minister speak about law and order today , and I welcome many of his comment about the importance of safe street and tackle terrorism , but also the need to address those appalling problem that we still see and will continue to see : violence on our street and domestic abuse , with victim suffer at the hand of criminal . none of we want prisoner to be release early , but it be important to focus on the victim of crime and to have the right punishment in place to ensure that the perpetrator be give tough sentence . again , I note that those measure be oppose in the last Parliament . it be important for we to get fairness back into our system when it come to law and order . one of the great achievement of the last Government be the expansion of renewable energy generation . we can be proud of our record in that regard and proud to be world leader , give that the energy generate by a mix of renewable pass the 40 % mark . that be a huge improvement on the situation in 2010 . my hon . friend the Member for Harwich and North Essex ( Sir Bernard Jenkin ) have already touch on the question of how we can generate new technology for energy purpose , and I genuinely believe that technology , rather than taxation , be the path to a much more sustainable future . I think that our colleague in the Government will recognise the reality of some of the project that already exist and will now be dominate their inboxe , such as the National Grid ' s attempt , through its Norwich to Tilbury plan , to impose more than 100 mile of pylon and overheard power line across the east of England . it be press those proposal , but my hon . friend the Member for Harwich and North Essex and I be work to find alternative through technology and way in which we can upgrade the grid without destroy the East Anglian countryside . National Grid ' s plan will affect farmer and community facility such as White Notley football club , which will lose community pitch if the pylon be build across our constituency . that will mean a huge loss of local amenity , which be deeply concern . my constituent , and constituent throughout Essex and East Anglia , want to see alternative such as an offshore grid or the use of more tunnelling to build up grid infrastructure capacity . the propose infrastructure and planning Bill will be consider in great detail . it must receive the right level of scrutiny , along with the legislation on planning and new housing , and we must ensure that local view — the view of our constituent — be not simply disregarded . I be aware that those on the Government Front Bench be already propose a consultation in this area . if I may give they some subtle and gentle advice , listen to the view express in that consultation will be incredibly important , because this be not about say that people do not want home ; in fact , constituency such as mine have put forward so many plan for new home . we have actually build over 10 , 000 new family home over the last decade , which have help my constituency to become a very good commuter town and successful when it come to school . family want to move to our area , but it be a case of get the balance right . that be incredibly important . in the minute I have leave , I want to make a point about economic growth . of course , everybody across the country and in this House fundamentally believe in secure high level of economic growth , which every Government want — name I a Government who do not want that . we want more job , we want more job creation and we want more successful business , but it be about be on the side of business and how we can effectively support they to employ people . over 80 % of my constituent be employ by small and medium - sized business . we be incredibly proud of that , but the minute that more regulatory burden come upon those business , I be afraid they will lose the ability to grow and to employ local people . of course , small business be the backbone of our economy . on a day like today , when we see new Bills come forward through the Loyal Address and the King ' s Speech , it be right that we be give the appropriate time to scrutinise they as we go forward through this Session of Parliament . fundamentally , however , we need to make sure that , as his Majesty ' s loyal opposition , we member of Parliament on this side of the Chamber provide scrutiny , but also redress , to ensure that constituent ' voice be hear — whether on planning , development or economic growth . fundamentally , we need to make sure that Britain advance in the right way . I call Kirith Entwistle to make her maiden speech . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker , and I thank the right hon . member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) for her contribution to the debate . I congratulate my hon . friend the Members for Bootle ( Peter Dowd ) and for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green ( Florence Eshalomi ) on their excellent contribution , and I join colleague in congratulate all the new mp who have join I in this House for this Parliament . I thank all the staff and member who have welcome I so kindly to this House . as a new MP , I want to reach across the political divide and find the thing that unite we all ; indeed , this King ' s Speech offer hope that we can come together to tackle the issue of today for the good of this country . I have the rare honour in the recent election of have the support of both of Bolton North East ' s live previous mp , both Labour and Conservative . I share one ambition with both of they : for Bolton to be well connect within the region and with the rest of the country . I welcome the announcement on transport in today ' s King ' s Speech . Sir David Crausby have a long - stand interest in improve the railway in our region — something I hope to continue work on , have experience cancellation on day one of travel down to this place . Sir David have be a great mentor of mine , and I hope to build on his legacy and do the people of Bolton North East proud . I wish he , his wife Enid and their family well , and I can not thank they enough for their ongoing support . my predecessor , Mark Logan , who have as thick a boltonian accent as mine , aspire to work hard to make the require Metrolink from Bolton to Manchester a reality . we have a share vision of improve connectivity for the town in which neither of we be bear or breed , but which we both call home . I hope to work with our ambitious metro mayor for Greater Manchester in make this vision a reality , and I thank Mark Logan for his service to the people of Bolton and , indeed , for his support during my general election campaign . I wish he and his family well . I be the new Member of Parliament for Bolton North East , the first woman to represent this great constituency , and the first Ahluwalia in Parliament . I have also hope to be the first Entwistle . however , Major Sir Cyril Fullard Entwistle — I think Kirith Kaur Ahluwalia Entwistle be long — beat I to it in 1918 . indeed , he later return to represent the great town of Bolton in 1931 . Sir Cyril and I share some similarity . he be bear in Bombay in 1887 to a cotton manufacturer and come to Bolton where he be educate at Bolton grammar school in my constituency . how fitting be it then that , all these year later , a second - generation indian immigrant would move to Bolton , settle down and then represent our great town in Westminster ? Sir Cyril be also an early advocate for equal right , introduce the Matrimonial Causes Act 1923 as a private member ' s Bill to give woman legal equality in divorce case . we have come a long way since then , as a nation and a society , in improve the right of woman and of those from ethnic minority background such as myself . it be my hope that I can go far during my time here and support great initiative such as the Pregnant then screw campaign , play my part in close the gender and ethnicity pay gap , improve parental right and continue to shape a country that be more accessible , accommodate and inclusive . Bolton be a town of great innovation , entrepreneurship and industry , be the birthplace of the spin mule , invent by the late , great Samuel Crompton . have have the privilege of meet so many fantastic entrepreneur throughout my campaign , I want to pay particular tribute to the great female entrepreneur I encounter : Allison Angel , a female mentor who have help woman launch , grow and develop sustainable business , and Mrs Farida Patel , who own the shop Mum ' s Mate in Halliwell , a particularly formidable woman who , alongside her daughter Naaznin and Mehzabeen , go above and beyond for the local community . I also have the privilege of meet Anita , who set up the Bolton Women in Business award . she vote for the first time in this election and decide to put her faith in I . I also want to mention the inspirational organisation , Fortalice , a Bolton - base charity provide frontline service for people who be , or have be , affect by domestic abuse and violence . these woman help woman , stand up and be exceptional role model in our town be the reason I be so proud to stand here today , to tell their story , to do what I can to support they and to highlight the incredible work that boltonian have do and be do . I be also the first Sikh to represent the constituency of Bolton North East . the Sikh value of seva — service for the betterment of other — and humility be visible throughout Bolton . they be in our history , and they have be weave through the very fabric of our town . community asset such as the Bolton Lads and Girls club , the Octagon theatre and Bolton museum and library be testament to this . I will do my utmost to keep they at the heart of everything that I do here . I will do my good to protect they and restore rich heritage centre such as the Hall I ' th ' wood museum . I have find a great source of pride in Bolton , and it be this pride for our great town that I wish to reflect here in Westminster . I have both the desire and the determination to improve our town — in particular our town centre , which I wish to see revitalise and renew — to give our young people hope and the chance of a bright future again and , finally , to see our history and heritage rightly celebrate . for this little indian girl from culture - rich southall , it be a great honour and privilege to represent this fascinating and heritage - rich town of Bolton . it be time for I to get to work on the role that the wonderful and humble people of Bolton North East have send I here to do . may I begin by congratulate the hon . member for Bolton North East ( Kirith Entwistle ) on her maiden speech ? it be clearly a real achievement to be the first to make a maiden speech in this Parliament , and I be sure that member on both side of the House will join I in congratulate she and wish she well in the year ahead here in Parliament . I welcome all new member to this House , not least because some of they make I look old , which I have be look forward to for some time . I remember when I be first swear into the House . I enter at a by - election and so swear in on my own , in a class of one . there be a real heckle on that occasion from the beast of Bolsover . he ask if I be here on work experience and everyone laugh . I have a few more grey hair now , 10 year on , and have just be through a difficult general election in north Nottinghamshire . I want to begin by say a special thank you to my constituent for do I the great honour and privilege of re - elect I , all the more so on what be clearly a difficult night for my party . during this Parliament , I will represent my constituent with all of my vim and vigour . have serve as a Minister under each of the last five Prime Ministers , I know what a special privilege it be to serve as a Minister , so I wish our successor in office all good wish and good luck in the year ahead . as patriot , we all know that this Government ' s success be our success , and we want they to tackle the great challenge face our country . I want they to enjoy their time in ministerial office as much as I do . the general election make a number of thing clear to I . I be deeply proud of many of our Government ' s achievement , which I will fiercely defend in the month and year ahead . we take a bankrupt country and right our public service and public finance . we ensure a decade of good employment after inherit high unemployment , particularly among young people . we lead Europe in the defence of Ukraine . we reform our education system , and we now outstrip country all over the world in the literacy and numeracy of our child . we be one of the world ' s great country in tackle environmental challenge , decarbonise fast than any other G7 country . for those and other reason , I will always defend the record of the last Conservative Government , but I will come on to some of the lesson I have learn from their failing . be the right hon . Gentleman suggest that voter be ungrateful on 4 July ? I can not quite hear the hon . Gentleman . if he be ask whether the electorate be wrong , the answer be no . no politician should ever doubt the electorate , but it be right that we defend the thing we do well in government so that there be a proper diagnosis of what we get right and what we get wrong . I think we do get some thing wrong . we promise to get Brexit do when we stand in 2019 , and we do . we get Brexit do and restore our sovereignty as a nation , which be a great and lasting achievement , but we also promise that we would secure our border and that we would ensure a strong economy , low taxis and a strong NHS and public service , which the public rightly expect . on those count , we do not deliver the public service , the low taxis , the economic growth and the migration system that we promise and the public rightly expect . the baton now pass to this Labour Government . where they succeed , I will welcome and support they ; and where they fall short , I will challenge they . we want to ensure that the great issue face our country be properly address . we live in one of the great time to be alive , but it be a time of immense change . there be a power shift from west to east , and new technology , like artificial intelligence , be upending old industry . it be an age of mass migration , which be challenge the pace of change in our country , create huge pressure on housing , public service and integration , and make it hard to build the united country that we all want to see . I worry that this King ' s Speech fall short on some of those great challenge . there be undoubtedly Bills that I welcome , and I be delighted that the new Government be take forward the Bill for a Holocaust memorial , a project in which I have be involve for many year . some of the Bills be radical , such as the change to our energy policy , and I worry that they be radical for all the wrong reason . despite have decarbonise fast than other country , and despite be responsible for only 1 % of global emission , we now find ourselves with a Government pursue , for ideological reason , a net zero policy that will make it hard for our own consumer to afford their bill . the policy will far erode our industrial base and leave we in hock to chinese technology . we be trade dependence on russian hydrocarbon for dependence on chinese electric vehicle , smart meter and solar panel that will despoil our countryside . new quango , such as Great British Energy , will spring up , serve no apparent purpose and take inspiration from predecessor such as Robin Hood Energy in Nottingham , in my part of the world . that fail project waste £ 50 million of taxpayer ' money . I worry that 200 , 000 job in the oil and gas sector have be put in danger in the first few day of this Government , at a time when they be rightly say that they want to fuel our economy , create job and change the dynamic that the country have see since the 2008 financial crash and after 20 or 30 year of low productivity growth and unsatisfactory economic growth . we should all be work to find way to do that and to make that possible . I worry about the message we be hear on the economy . we want economic growth , but economic growth be found on harness the entrepreneurship of our people . it be about create a start - up country and help small business people to find business around their kitchen table , like my parent do . it be not a statist vision of this country . it be not about use new quango or a national wealth fund , which be an oxymoron because it be go to borrow the money it seek to invest . it be not about change our employment law , which will make we less competitive and drive the kind of high structural level of unemployment we see in Europe that we have mercifully avoid over the last 10 year . and I worry about immigration , because we live in an age of mass migration . I have be honest — painfully honest — about the failing of the last government on this topic , but I worry that the same or bad mistake be about to be make again . what we be see in the channel be a national security emergency . we be see ten of thousand of people about whom we know next to nothing cross into our country , break into our country , in flagrant abuse of our law . some of they be subject of interest be follow by our security service . this have to stop . scrap the only know credible deterrent , with nothing else to put in its place , be go to surrender to the people smuggle gang . that be wrong , it be a mistake and I worry that we be go to rue the day that we do that . I also hope that the Government will take legal migration seriously . we have to accept that the public in most part of our country have be vote for 20 or 30 year , in election and referendum , for government that promise to control and reduce the level of legal migration , only for government of all political colour to do precisely the opposite . that be immensely corrosive to public trust and confidence in politic and in democracy . as one of our colleague say early , about the rise of far - right party around the world , if we centrist party on the left and the right do nothing about this , we will see the rise of far - right party in this country . that would be a great mistake . I hope the reform I start , to reduce the number of people come into this country legally , be take forward , and that we far reduce those number . we could have use the King ' s Speech today to implement a legal cap on net migration , embed by Parliament in law . we have not do that , which will mean further pressure on housing , public service and the pace of change . let I close with this : the Prime Minister have say he want this to be a new era , in which politic be define by service . I think we will all agree on that point — it should be — but the question be who do we serve . I do not think we come to this place to serve the interest of new quango , commission and review , the legal fraternity in contested notion of international law , or the new and worrying rise in sectarian politic , represent in this House for the first time in my lifetime , which again should worry we . we be send here to serve the interest of our constituent . I choose they ; I choose to ensure the work people of Newark and Nottinghamshire be always represent . they send I here with a few clear message : secure our border ; reduce immigration ; lower our taxis ; stop the crime ; build home ; build a more united country , cohesive and integrated , not riddle by the poison of left - wing identity politic . that be what I be here to fight . where this government do that and live up to that test , I will support they . where they do not , I will fiercely challenge they . today ' s King ' s Speech have lay before we an ambitious and exciting vision that will benefit our country and my Preston constituent for decade to come . in particular , I welcome the announcement that the Government will be introduce a new publicly own company , great British Energy . as a first step , it will take back control of our energy supply , produce cheap power for our country , and ensure that profit go back into our community . as a Co - operative party MP , I want to see more community energy company base on the Co - operative model . not only will Great british Energy generate clean energy , but it will cut energy bill and deliver good job . this news come when our constituent be desperately in need of support . for too long , they have be expose to the energy insecurity create under the previous Government , which have see a cost of live crisis and bill skyrocket to eye - watering price . every family and business in Britain be still pay the price of 14 year of conservative failure with sky - high energy bill . the Conservatives have squander our advantage in clean energy and leave the country dangerously expose to international energy market manipulate by dictator such as Vladimir Putin . under Labour ' s plan , oil and gas giant that have make record profit from energy insecurity in this country will now be hold accountable . a windfall tax on their excess profit will benefit the entire nation , lift the burden off the public . work alongside the private sector , we have the opportunity to double onshore wind , triple solar power and quadruple offshore wind by 2030 . that investment in renewable energy be an investment in our future . we need to harness the advantage of our long coastline along with our engineering capability to become energy independent again . we need to invest in carbon capture and storage , hydrogen and marine energy to ensure that we have the long - term energy storage that our country need . we need to accelerate investment in energy infrastructure . that can be achieve by the Government ' s green prosperity plan , which involve invest in cut - edge green technology to create 650 , 000 job in the industry of the future by 2030 . the previous Government be slip more and more towards climate denial , but it be critical — now more than ever — that the UK commit to our future by do all that we can to achieve net zero , set a good example to the rest of the world . I have be extremely fortunate to experience first hand the progress that have be make on that over the year . as someone who work as a professional electrical engineer before enter full - time politic , I have always be very conscious of energy consumption issue and their impact on the environment . I also serve as a Member of the European Parliament , where I sit on the Environment and Consumer Protection Committee , where we help to develop the european emission trading scheme . I be strongly in favour of clean energy and our mission to move towards a clean energy transition as a matter of urgency . under the previous Government , I sit on the Energy Security and Net Zero Committee from its inception , where I work with colleague to hold the then government to account and focus on the issue so acutely feel by the public , particularly their soar energy cost . during the Blair year , as parliamentary private Secretary to the former Member for Derby South during her three year as the Environment Secretary in the Cabinet , I become extremely aware of the crucial importance of reduce emission as quickly as possible . indeed , when the former Member for Derby South become Foreign Secretary , she achieve the huge goal of place climate change on to the UN Security Council ' s agenda for the first time . since then , the seriousness and urgency of the global challenge of climate change have only accelerate . it be not just a green issue now ; it be a security issue . I be proud and energise by the fact that this Government be commit to tackle climate change and do so in a way that bring the public with we and encourage international collaboration . by create job and opportunity that stimulate the economy and slash energy bill , we be ensure that , together , we can become a clean energy superpower , become energy independent , reach our net zero goal and secure our future for generation to come . may I say what a privilege it be to follow the hon . member for Preston ( Sir Mark Hendrick ) and to stand here not only as a return representative , elect to continue my representation of my home constituency , but as the leader of Unionism in Northern Ireland — to have the opportunity to speak for the people of Northern Ireland in our national Parliament with the endorsement not only of my constituent , but of colleague right across the Province ? it be a real privilege , and I be pleased to do it during this Loyal Address and response to his Majesty ' s Gracious Speech . Mr Deputy Speaker , you know that the election bring with it some challenge . we do not have two of our colleague that I would have like to have be here with we today — I thank both Ian and Paul for their contribution and service to national politic and to politic more broadly in Northern Ireland — but we be not without hope , and it be very clear that the addition to the parliamentary team , even though not of our party , will make a significant contribution to life in their constituency in Northern Ireland and to this place . in respond to this Loyal Address and Gracious Speech , the first thing to say be that we hold his Majesty responsible for not one bit of it — it be , of course , the agenda of this Government — and if you be to ask someone in rural Ireland for direction , you might find they respond , " I wouldn ' t start from here . " as I read through the King ' s Speech , I welcome the commitment to repeal the provision of the Northern Ireland Troubles ( Legacy and Reconciliation ) Act 2023 ; and I say that as somebody who , over the last nine year and alongside colleague who have be here for long , have be consistent in our approach to issue of legacy in Northern Ireland . that be not something that everyone in this Chamber can say . over the last number of year , we appreciate the opposition that those on the Labour Benches offer in the face of the Conservative Government ' s pursuit of the legacy Act . we appreciate the response from Labour colleague , when they recognise that the removal of the pursuit of justice be obnoxious to victim — people who lose the opportunity to pursue answer and outcome on behalf of their love one . but the corruption of justice in Northern Ireland commence decade ago : the early release of prisoner be a corruption of justice ; the on - the - run legislation , ill - fated though it be , be a corruption of justice ; and the letter of comfort , indicate to terrorist that they would not face prosecution , be a corruption of justice . I be well aware that this evening the Prime Minister be due to meet the Taoiseach of Ireland , Simon Harris , and that as part of this King ' s Speech he have indicate very clearly that he be keen to reset relation . that be important — we should have good relation with our near neighbour — but I want to take this opportunity to say very clearly that the corruption of justice have now be highlight by the Government , we have a commitment from they that they be go to act upon it , and that should mean that we have an engagement base on honesty with the Government of the Irish Republic , and that there should be gentle and encourage challenge to say that they have fail in their responsibility on legacy . when the court have determine that the Irish Government should bring forward inquiry as to what role be play by their state actor , by an Garda S í och á na and by other involve within their territory , there have be silence . in fact , all we have have over recent year from the Irish Government be a case against the UK Government on this legislation — so let ' s balance it up . if the engagement this evening be to be fruitful — if there be to be a positive outcome on what be a good commitment and a commitment that we welcome — then it must be to ask our near neighbour to play their part in ensure truth and justice . I commend my right hon . friend and colleague for what he have say . when it come to responsibility , the Republic of Ireland should be hold accountable for the fact that it give sanctuary to the IRA terrorist who murder my cousin , in December 1971 , and Lexie Cummings , and escape across the border . there be something wrong with the Government in the Republic of Ireland in particular if they can give sanctuary to IRA murderer and killer — and they think they can get away with it . I be very grateful to my hon . friend for that comment . move on to public service , over the last number of year we have be campaign about the fact that public service in Northern Ireland be constrain because the Barnett formula have not serve we well and we have be get less than what the Independent Fiscal Commission for Northern Ireland and the Northern Ireland Fiscal Council have accept that we need . therefore , year on year public service be be reduce in Northern Ireland and year on year we be not get the sort of uplift require to ensure that our constituent benefit from devolution . New Members of this House will probably not have experience the protract agony around devolution in Northern Ireland and the importance of get it restore five month ago , but one part of that restoration be ensure that sufficient public finance be available . there be a key opportunity — though not mention in this King ' s Speech , I hope it be something the incoming Government will focus on — to draw upon the lesson of the Holtham commission in Wales and upon the positive uplift there , to provide we with what we need to reform and transform public service . at the moment , the challenge be not about how we grow and develop the provision for our people , irrespective of their community background , in Northern Ireland , but about what special school we close , what hospital we close and what service we stop provide . as somebody who speak for our corner of the United Kingdom in this place , I ask for earnest engagement on public service and public funding in Northern Ireland . devolution be restore on the basis of an agreement that we reach with the previous Government , but that agreement be support by Labour in February of this year . the " safeguard the Union " document , which allow devolution to be restore , contain within it key and significant commitment and we look forward to the new Labour Government ' s honour they . their member support it at the time in February . they know its importance . while I see reference in the King ' s Speech to reset relation with the European Union — as I say early , we should have good relationship and we should build upon those good relationship with near neighbour — we need to carefully nurture the arrangement that be agree in February and need to be deliver . this be about remove barrier within our own country . we can focus on relationship with other outside , and we should , but not to the detriment of that which make this country work . there be opportunity on regional connectivity and to build on the Union connectivity review . the propose creation of a council for the region and border look quite like the East - West Council that be agree back in February as part of the " safeguard the Union " document . we will have to study the detail . if it be a rename and a re - badge , that be fine , but we need to talk about how we move people and product from one part of our country to another . where be the connectivity review work on the A75 move from Northern Ireland into Scotland and down towards Carlisle ? how do we think about this as a national endeavour ? there will be newly elect Scottish Members of Parliament on the Labour Benches who will take keen interest in ensure that the Union work across the United Kingdom , and we want to play our part in that . I have spend the last eight year on the Select Committee on Defence . I have speak many time of the contribution of Thales from my constituency and the next - generation light anti - tank weapon , and how important they be in the initial week of the defence of Kyiv particularly and Ukraine more generally . however , the eye have be take off the ball on support for those industry that be key within my constituency and important for Northern Ireland as a whole in the Defence sphere . hon . member will have see negative briefing in the last 24 hour around Harland & Wolff . I want to see a very clear commitment from this government that they believe in the contract that have be award to Belfast and in the renaissance of shipbuilding in Belfast , that they adhere to the commitment of the national shipbuilding review to building skill and opportunity throughout our United Kingdom and that — irrespective of the up and down , high and low of any individual company — the aspiration and the economic benefit of retain shipbuilding and grow the shipbuilding capacity in Belfast be highly important . so , too , be the issue of Boeing wish to bring Spirit AeroSystems back into its company . significant issue arise from that for the economy of Belfast and Northern Ireland , as Spirit AeroSystems be the large private employer , with high - skilled manufacturing job , in my constituency , but it service the entirety of the United Kingdom . like previous Business Secretaries , the Government need to focus on that . I be not suggest that they be not , but there be a huge opportunity in the next six month , and we need to land it to secure what be important for we . finally — I realise that I be go beyond the suggest time limit , Mr Deputy Speaker — there be a proposal for a football regulator . good . we will have the debate in the next week and month — it will probably come from my hon . friend the Member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) — about whether that football regulator should be for England or , in this national Parliament , for football within our country . if I do not close with this , I would probably have one less vote come the next election . my constituent Davy Warren , who use to serve I in the newsagent ' s on my way to school , texte I to say : " Gavin , support England if you like on Sunday . they ' re not your team but they ' re the only team from our country , so support England if you like , but remind they all that Neil Diamond ' s ' Sweet Caroline ' be a Northern Ireland football team anthem . " the green and white army be very happy to lend that anthem to you all , but we will reclaim it . I gently remind the House that the last time Spain face a home nation in any significant final or competition — my hon . friend the Member for Strangford be there , and I be not bear — Northern Ireland beat Spain . to make his maiden speech , I call Warinder Juss . I be deeply honour and privileged to represent the new constituency of Wolverhampton West , which be create through the amalgamation of the seven ward of the former Wolverhampton South West constituency , one ward from Wolverhampton North and one from Wolverhampton South East . as in so many other place in our country , housing be a major issue in my constituency . I be pleased to note the housing measure set out by his Majesty ' s Government in the Gracious Speech . our country face a grow housing crisis . in the year to March 2024 , the number of new home start by builder in England be about 135 , 000 — a 22 % fall on the previous year . just over 153 , 800 housing unit be complete in England , represent a 12 % annual fall . moreover , planning application have fall . in late November 1918 , Prime Minister David Lloyd George choose to start his general election campaign in the Wolverhampton West constituency with the famous " home fit for hero " speech . he demand well home and say : " what be our task ? to make Britain a fit country for hero to live in . " I echo that sentiment and have every confidence that the Government will deliver a significant boost to house building — especially , I hope , council housing — just as they do in the 1920 and the 1960 . Less than 25 year ago , it be possible to allocate a one - bedroom Wolverhampton council flat in less than 48 hour . now it seem that , as in so many part of the country , the waiting list be nearer 48 month . we desperately need a mass programme to build council housing , which be quite literally an investment for the future . I be a proud son of Wolverhampton — a Wulfrunian . we be so call because our great city be found over a thousand year ago by Lady Wulfrun , and be perhaps the only city in the country found by a woman . I have live in the city that I love since I arrive from east Africa age four . I go to school , college and university in the city , where I do my law degree and professional exam , and do my legal training in a solicitor ' s office there to begin with . I have spend my work life as a social justice lawyer at the great firm of Thompsons solicitor , focus on work for trade union member and on clinical negligence case . Wolverhampton have a long and proud tradition of manufacturing . it be formerly home to renowned company Sunbeam Motor Car Company — which hold the land speed record — and Guy Motors . incidentally , my father work on a laser machine at Guy Motors . the constituency also contain the headquarters of Marston ' s , a big pub chain whose brewery be be sell to Carlsberg this month . I wish to work with other to encourage Marston ' s to continue our city ' s 149 - year tradition as a major brewing location . our city have a fine tradition of assist the disadvantaged . for example , headquarter in the constituency be the Haven — the second old charity in the country — which provide refuge accommodation for woman and child escape domestic abuse . we also have the head office of the excellent Refugee and Migrant Centre , a national centre of expertise . I be a long - stand and active trade unionist and sit on the executive council of the GMB . I be always conscious that the first national union agreement with an employer for an eight - hour day be sign in Wolverhampton in the 1930 . those who be unfortunate enough not to know Wolverhampton be often surprised about how much the city have to offer . we have a premier league football team in Wolverhampton Wanderers , or wolf . I be a proud wearer of the wolf badge , and I be fortunate enough to have a season ticket for the club with my son . in this week when english football player have do we proud and have achieve so much as a team , it be worth bear in mind that Stan Cullis , who live in the city for many year , captain England , as do the great Wolves player Billy Wright , who be captain of England on the most occasion . Molineux , the city centre stadium , have a statue of Billy Wright . correspondingly , perhaps the well know captain of the England cricket team be Rachael — later baroness — Heyhoe Flint , who in 1963 hit the first six in a woman ' s test match against the old enemy , Australia , and be unbeaten in six test series . also cap for England in hockey , she grow up in the city and live there all her life . Wolverhampton West be also home to the country ' s first all - weather floodlit racecourse . despite the budget cut of recent year , there be three hospital in the constituency , as well as many fine school , include , I be pleased to say , four special school . we be bless with cultural facility such as the fantastic Victoria - era West park , the 19th century Grand Theatre , Wightwick Manor — the fine art and craft National Trust house in the country — and the Wolverhampton art gallery , which be home to nationally important collection of pop art and Northern Ireland trouble art . I note the contribution and influence of my predecessor , the most well know of whom may well be , regrettably , Enoch Powell . have live in Wolverhampton since the age of four , I can attest that community relation have improve very markedly . that have not happen by chance ; it have come about because of hard work by many people , include several of my predecessor and group such as Interfaith Wolverhampton , of which I have be a member for several year . I pay tribute to the work of my predecessor the hon . member for South Shropshire ( Stuart Anderson ) , who be the MP for my constituency before decide to stand in South Shropshire , and Jenny Jones , who foster the develop democracy of eastern Europe around the turn of the century . I commend the work of my great friend and predecessor , and 2008 Back Bencher of the year , Rob Marris , particularly for his Assisted Dying ( no . 2 ) Bill and his pioneer work on adaptation to climate change . Wolverhampton be underrated . it a great place to live and a great city . I be sure that the measure set out in the Gracious Speech will help it to become great still . this morning ' s King ' s Speech be a different sort of Gracious Speech from that to which some of we in this House be accustomed . it be hearten to hear some positive proposal that I look forward to debate , such as measure to address the need for long - overdue improvement to employment right , reform to the archaic House of Lords , and the extension of vat to private school . I particularly look forward to work together on the issue relate to violence against woman and girl , and be very interested to hear the Prime Minister name some activist in this area . I put on record the name of Rhianon Bragg of Rhosgadfan in my constituency , and the work she have be do after the experience she suffer at the hand of her offender . I would also like to mention Elfyn Llwyd , my predecessor , and the work that he do on stalk legislation , which I hope we will be able to strengthen . however , consider Labour ' s message of change , I be disappoint not to hear about legislation to address the inadequate funding framework which leave we short - change in Wales . we have hear , of course , about the situation in the north of Ireland , where I believe further step have be take than have be take in Wales . while labour ' s Government in Wales have be distract by internal party politic , Plaid Cymru have reiterate our clear and credible call for fairness and ambition for Wales . that mean a fair funding deal so that we can properly invest in our public service ; it mean the billion owe to we from HS2 so that we can connect our community north to south ; and it mean power over our natural resource so that we can ensure energy profit be direct into Welsh community , help we to build an economy fit for the future and create well - pay green job . of course , we face the immediate challenge to the economy in Wales of the situation of Port Talbot . I think everybody in this House will be very much aware that we need security of supply when it come to virgin steel for all the other project that we hope to bring forward with net zero . the UK Government need to be work closely on find some solution to what be happen in Port Talbot . this be an important point : when we talk about fairness , it be not a matter of beg for money from Westminster . on the one hand , it be about demand the money that be rightly owe to Wales . People who argue for the strength of the Union — possibly from the Government Benches ; it be not something that my party do — should be look for that give the nation of Wales fair funding . however , it be equally significant to I and my party that we have the necessary lever — the tool that we need to drive up our own economic development in Wales . we do not want to have our hand out with a begging bowl ; we want the mean to grow our own economy , and for that to be answerable in Wales . interestingly , that point be raise in the King ' s Speech today in relation to devolution in England . have have a quarter of a century of devolution in Wales under the model devise by Labour and under a Labour Government , it would be very interesting to strengthen the economy in Wales as well . Plaid Cymru ' s amendment set out that vision in plain term . it call for measure to reform Wales ' s fiscal framework to provide consistency , transparency and fairness — replace the Barnett formula with a needs - base formula , introduce multi - year funding settlement , and restore the Welsh budget to 2021 spending review level . that be how Labour could bring about real change in Wales . indeed , what be miss from this King ' s Speech be just as important as what be in it . the decision not to scrap the two - child benefit cap show labour ' s choice not to prioritise the immediate need of nearly a third of child in Wales who live in poverty . labour official have repeatedly refuse to make that so - call unfunded commitment , but the point — this matter — be that the decision not to fund that commitment be a political decision . Plaid Cymru have champion real change : alternative mean of taxation that would enable the funding of progressive policy , such as equalise capital gain tax with income tax , which would raise £ 15 billion a year . some £ 2 . 5 billion be need to fund the abolishment of the two - child benefit cap , less than a fifth of all that potential income . just imagine how much we could do with the remain contribution to the public purse . scrap that cap alone would help lift 65 , 000 affect child out of poverty in Wales — that be 11 % of child in Wales . child poverty level be unacceptably high , and this policy only increase those level far . invest in our child ' s future would be a real , powerful change in the here and now . Labour have commit to the idea of a taskforce , and I have to welcome that , because it be a step in the right direction . it be very interesting that that have happen today ; be this the first indication of a u - turn on the part of Labour ? if so , I would welcome it , and I look forward to hear more on that . today , Labour also commit to strengthen devolution in England . it be of course important that community have a real say in decision that affect they , yet similar promise be not make to Wales . labour ' s manifesto commit to strengthen the Sewel convention and to " consider " — that weasel word — the devolution of justice and police to Wales . that have already be consider , because it be the policy of the Labour party in Wales , but it have not be bring forward . give the state of our prison as bequeath to we by the previous Government , with their policy of 14 year of austerity , we need radical idea to tackle that blight and the question of how we rehabilitate people and deal with justice . in Wales , of course , the key measure involve with rehabilitation and make our community safe — namely health and housing — be already in the hand of the Senedd . we need all this in place . in recent year , Welsh devolution have be constantly undermine . it be high time to go far and pass legislation to put legal safeguard in place to protect devolved power . we also need to heed the recommendation of expert and expand devolved power , particularly in policing and justice , but in broadcasting too . if we be to tackle the question of the expansion of far - right populism , we need to have the mean to do so through broadcasting . we also need to expand devolve power in rail service and the Crown Estate , to name just some . Plaid Cymru will use the clear role that we have in this new Parliament to demand that Wales be treat fairly . we will , of course , also be raise with colleague in this place the question of our relationship with our near neighbour . when I be stand in Pen Ll ŷ n , the near capital city be not London but Dublin , and our relationship with the rest of the EU be absolutely critical since the economic damage that Brexit cause . we will also be raise the issue of the disaster that be unfold in Gaza and the response of this place , and how we seek justice for the people of Palestine and make sure that in future they be properly treat and recognise as a nation in the world . again , we will be use this theatre to make sure that our voice be hear . we will therefore continue to push the UK Labour Government to be more ambitious . I hear the Prime Minister talk about the " lobby of good intention " . yes , there be good intention ; there be also good intention to work together where we can , and Plaid Cymru will hold this place to account for the people of Wales . it be always a pleasure to speak in this Chamber . I have have the pleasure of do so for the past 14 year , but it be not half a big improvement to be stand on the Government side of the Chamber . I look forward to give full support to this new Labour Government in their endeavour , as they take their first step in change our country for the well . I congratulate my hon . friend the Members for Bolton North East ( Kirith Entwistle ) and for Wolverhampton West ( Warinder Juss ) , who give outstanding maiden speech . they have set the bar rather high for the rest of my hon . friend , as I think they would all agree , but I wish they all well in their endeavour . indeed , I congratulate all new and return member . we have an inheritance after 14 year , and I would just say to some of the Conservative Members who have defend the previous Government ' s record , or at least have attempt to do so as they have make their various leadership pitch , that the economic performance of those 14 year tell a rather different story , with low living standard , a cost of live crisis and low growth . in fact , growth have be so low that , have we maintain the growth of the last Labour Government , GDP would be £ 140 billion high , every household would on average have £ 5 , 800 more every single year and there would be £ 50 billion more , on the same tax rate , for spending and investing in our public service and our infrastructure . that be what 14 year of Conservative Government have mean for this country , and to cap it all we have the Liz Truss and Kwasi Kwarteng exuberance of the mini - Budget , with the disastrous crashing of the economy , which have leave people pay high interest rate even now , two year later . that be the record we inherit , it be what we have to fix and we have make a very good start . in the Gracious Speech , the importance of economic stability be underline with the announcement of a Budget responsibility Bill to deliver stability and to attract investment by create confidence throughout the economy . there be the national wealth fund to attract private investment and to invest in the massive opportunity available to we in this country , which , almost uniquely in western Europe , be through clean energy , with our geographical and geological opportunity , as well as our marvellous tech in this country , our science base and our university . there be the reform to plan to deliver infrastructure and housing , and the reform to skill to deliver for our worker and for their employer . the investment we have announce in transport , which be so important — the improvement in rail and in bus and the commitment to sustainable aviation fuel — show that this be a Government who actually understand the importance of integrated transport in deliver societal and economic improvement . turn to the impact on my constituency , we , like everybody in this House , will benefit from the commitment to take action on NHS and dental waiting list , and to improve appointment , as well as to recruit additional teacher and to bring in breakfast club place for our child . all of those will make a massive immediate difference , and they be part of the down payment that the Prime Minister commit to during the election campaign and reiterate in his brilliant speech early . in my constituency , one piece of legislation announce today above all be of particular significance . I represent many people whose love one die at Hillsborough , or who be injure or who attend , so I be very pleased — along with all of my Merseyside and Liverpool city region colleague , and indeed many more in this House — for everyone who have campaign so hard for justice for 35 year . the legal duty of candour on all public official and authority will now be create , as it should have be so many year ago . I be thrill at the announcement about and the commitment to mental health in the Gracious Speech . maghull health park in my constituency arguably have the most comprehensive array of mental health service in Europe , with medium and low secure provision to go with the well know high - secure Ashworth hospital , which be the good arrangement on a single location . Mersey Care NHS foundation trust , along with the Liverpool city region combine authority and Sefton council all want to see , as do I , investment in a world - lead diagnostic and research mental health facility on the same site . what we hear in the Gracious Speech give I great confidence that such investment be likely to be available so that we can make the most of what we be already very good at in this country and make so much more of it . it must be right , as the sovereign say in the other place , that mental health should have the same attention as physical health . this bring I on to speak in more detail about energy . the Liverpool city region and the north - west of England be supremely well place to be at the heart of the Government ' s plan for investment in clean energy and energy security . contrary to what some conservative Members have be say , this be about job , cheap transport and low energy bill . it be an economic investment as much as it be an environmental one . it be of course essential that we support worker in the oil and gas industry , so that we avoid the mistake of deindustrialisation , and that there be job and training for people to make the transition and take advantage of the low - carbon future that we all know be come . in the Liverpool city region and across the country , it be absolutely right that we make the most of opportunity in fix and float offshore wind . I be so pleased that one of the Secretary of State ' s first act have be to end the ban on onshore wind , and indeed that he have announce three new solar farm . in the north - west and elsewhere there be plan for hydrogen , for carbon capture and storage , and for nuclear , and uniquely in the north - west , in the city region , we have great plan for the Mersey tidal project . they be all key to growth , to prosperity and to address the climate crisis , so I be thrilled that this be front and centre of Labour ' s plan for government . there be many other aspect of the low - carbon future , include improvement in insulation in housing and plan for solar for people at home . that be something I have invest in , and I have see the benefit with low bill already . I would advocate that for everybody , and it be brilliant that we be commit to give everybody the ability to make the most of such an opportunity . the Liverpool city region and the north - west be part of the HyNet project , which be a commitment to a series of green hydrogen generation unit . we be also commit to improvement in green transport through the roll - out of ev charging point — something that have to happen much more quickly right across the country — and there be already net zero hydrogen bus in service in the city region . elsewhere in the city region , Glass Futures be lead the way internationally in decarbonise the production of glass , and we be also look at battery storage . whether in the city region or elsewhere in the country , this really be key not just to labour ' s energy mission , but to the mission of sustain the high growth in the G7 , and whether through investment in energy or improvement in public service , by have growth at the centre we really will see improvement in this country and we really will see a change from what we have see over the past 14 year . the 14 year of chaos be over , and it be time to turn the page . as the Prime Minister say , it be time to work together — and he offer to do so with all member in this House and people beyond this House — to start to rebuild Britain . today ' s Gracious Speech be an important down payment in secure Britain ' s future . I call Sir Roger Gale . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker . I would like to start by add my congratulation to both the hon . member for Bootle ( Peter Dowd ) and for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green ( Florence Eshalomi ) on their speech early this afternoon . I suspect that you and I have hear quite a number of such speech , and I think we can probably agree that those be two of the very good we have ever hear . may I also congratulate the hon . member for Wolverhampton West ( Warinder Juss ) , who speak movingly of his football team and of his town , in which he quite clearly have great pride . I have not visit Wolverhampton for over 60 year , and I do not know whether the Ambassador bowling alley be still there , but I recall that Berry Gordy bring the Motortown revue to Wolverhampton , and I actually watch Stevie Wonder play ten pin bowl in the Wolverhampton bowling alley — think about that . it be 41 year since I be first elect to this House as the then young Member of Parliament for the new seat of North Thanet , and I be delighted that , 41 year later , I find myself elect as the young Member of Parliament for Herne Bay and Sandwich . new colleague on both side of the House who have not hear these type of speech before — you and I both know this very well indeed , Mr Deputy Speaker — will find that they will make great friendship right across the House over the come week and month , and that be as it should be . out there , in the real world , people do not understand that we work so closely together , but we do , and so we should . Jo Cox be absolutely right when she memorably say that there be much more that unite we than divide we . and so it be with this speech today . I should also place on record my thank and , I hope , the thank of the whole House to the Leader of the Opposition and the Prime Minister for the way in which they have manage with great dignity the transfer of power . this country do state opening rather well , and it do democracy even well . there be many who envy we for that , and it be a precious jewel that we should never lose . this King ' s Speech have much in it that I trust we can all applaud . it make clear reference to defence of the realm , which be so vital to our country , and a commitment to NATO . it also commit we to support Ukraine in what be not just their war but our war — a war to defend democracy . there be also a commitment — although not everybody will agree with this — to a two - state settlement in the middle east . those be all laudable aim , and I trust we can all support they . there be other area that be greyer and that we shall have to take some issue with . that be the job of the Opposition , as the Prime Minister would expect . the opposition will hold his foot to the fire and hold he to account when we think that he have get it wrong . there be three issue that I want to raise very briefly this afternoon . I have grave concern about the propose reform of planning law . like many Government Members , I represent a rural constituency and I fear for the loss of farmland . I be not sure — this be a genuine confusion and concern — whether it be the Chancellor of the Exchequer or the Secretary of State for Housing who be drive the propose planning reform policy . I have a very real concern that local democracy will be remove , and that we shall find ourselves with a slash - and - burn policy that will destroy yet more of not only the green belt , but of the land we need to grow the food to feed our country . I trust that the Government will address that issue very clearly and very seriously indeed . the new Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero have move very fast indeed to grant planning consent that give I cause for concern . I find it wholly unnecessary that East Anglia and Thanet should have to place solar farm on prime agricultural land — grade 1 land — that generate wheat of bread - make quality . we have acre of rooftop and car park in public ownership that could and should be use to protect the land that we need . I have a particular concern about a project that two colleague from East Anglia refer to early . the Sea Link project be design to run a power cable from East Anglia under the Thames and around the coast to make landfall close to Sandwich . the proposal be to build on marshland immediately next to a site of special scientific interest , have cross the Pegwell bay nature reserve , a 90 - foot high structure the size of about four football pitch . National Grid have get this so horribly wrong that it only now realise that marshland be wet , which mean it will have to pour thousand of tonne of concrete into the land , drill down and pile before it can even begin to build its structure . viable alternative have be suggest , so I hope that the new Secretary of State will take this concern on board and use his power to instruct National Grid to go back to the drawing board and get it right . we all want clean energy and renewable energy , and we all want to hit the net zero target , but not at any price . if we rush into this , we will get it wrong . we owe it to the grandchild of every Member present to get it right . finally , I be concern about an omission from the King ' s Speech . give the comment and publicity , I be sad that the speech make no mention of animal welfare . I would hope that , at the very least , his Majesty ' s new Government will reintroduce and ram through the trophy hunting bill that two member of Parliament — one labour and one Tory — try but fail to get through the last Parliament . with that , in the interest of this United Kingdom , I wish the Government and their programme well . we will hold foot to the fire where necessary , but I trust , as the Leader of the opposition say this afternoon , that we will not be obstructive . a Government have a right to get their business through . I call Patrick Hurley to make his maiden speech . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker , for call I to make my first speech as part of this important debate . first , may I thank the right hon . member for Herne Bay and Sandwich ( Sir Roger Gale ) for his contribution ? may I also pay tribute to all those who be make their first speech today ? I wish they well today and for the remainder of this Parliament , and I hope that we each manage to repay the trust that our new constituent have place in we . I be lead to believe that certain convention apply to member ' first speech . I wish to assure the House that I will abide by those convention . accordingly , I wish to pay sincere tribute to my predecessor , Damien Moore , who diligently serve Southport for the past seven year , pave the way for a new Government to ensure that the town ' s good day lie ahead . I wish he nothing but the good for the future . I also wish to refer to another of my predecessor as the MP for Southport , somebody already mention in today ' s debate . at the 1865 general election , William Gladstone be elect as one of the three Members for the South Lancashire county constituency , which take in both Southport and my original hometown of Prescot . as I be sure member will appreciate , this fact help I somewhat over the past 12 month or so in draw a link between where I be bear and where I now represent in this House . I expect that I be not alone among new member in have be rather overwhelmed over the past couple of week by the mountain of email correspondence that we have receive from constituent and other since be elect . I can , though , take some comfort in the fact that my inbox refer solely to the much small constituency of Southport , rather than to the whole of the South Lancashire constituency that William Gladstone represent . I can only imagine the additional stress and strain on member in Gladstone ' s day if they , too , have have access to a parliamentary email address . as well as be part of the same old county constituency , both Prescot and Southport be also within the boundary of the old hundred of West Derby . this fact be bring far to my attention when the Boundary Commission announce during the last Parliament that the new Southport constituency would , from now onwards , also contain Tarleton and Hesketh Bank , two beautiful village on the south coast of the Ribble . as a result of this change , I research at my local library whereabout the boundary of the West Derby hundred be , hope that I would be able to say that Tarleton and Hesketh Bank have , many year ago , also be under the same county division as Southport . alas , this be not to be . after quite some hour of research , I realise that the information I be look for have actually be stare I in the face all along . it appear that the boundary between the hundred of West Derby and Leyland lie along — would you believe ? — Boundary Lane , and that Boundary Lane be situate in a hamlet call Hundred end . it be a lesson , I think , in not ignore the obvious when it be right there in front of you . my predecessor in previous Parliaments have talk about how they have feel that Southport have sometimes be take for grant or take advantage of , and so have subsequently seek to discuss and elevate division between the town of the local borough . I wish to assure my constituent that I will take a different approach . instead , I will work to ensure that our country ' s new Government will not look to cause division with our neighbour , whether they be other country thousand of mile away or even other town just a few thousand yard away . instead , I will work with colleague to ensure that the Government will look to unite our country in the task of national renewal , because the politic that I believe in be a politic of the common good — a politic where each of we look out for the wellbeing of the other , rather than try to do other down . many town and village in this country have see well day than over the past few year . Southport be no different . whereas other area have have , for instance , much - need housing not build , or much - need transport link not implement — two issue that I be pleased to see the new Government be plan to address — Southport ' s problem have manifest themselves in the temporary closure of the town ' s much - love pier , and in the town centre , whose main street need more than their fair share of love and attention . I promise to work with colleague in this House and beyond to fix these issue . the new Government ' s priority on economic growth be entirely the right approach . unless we get the trend rate of growth back to pre - 2008 level , our task in this Parliament of reduce poverty will be much hard . the Government have my full support in their approach . I wish it to be know that I will do my utmost to make sure that Southport ' s good day lie ahead of it , that the decline of recent year will be arrest and that the town ' s fortune will be turn around , and that I will work with good people of good faith to bring that about , no matter what their party affiliation . with that , I would like to thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker , for allow I the opportunity to make my first speech in this place . I thank the House for the manner in which the speech be receive . rise — order . we still have 25 member who wish to speak , so after the next speaker , Sir Julian Lewis , I be afraid I must impose a time limit of seven minute . this strict time limit will not apply to maiden speech , but I be sure that those who make they will also want to keep an eye on the clock and remember the courtesy of the House . if we do not impose this time limit now , and if people do not keep to it , not everybody will get to speak in this debate . who would have ever dream , Sir Edward , when we first meet in October 1981 , that so many year later both you and your equally radical and progressive friend , my constituency neighbour and hon . friend the Member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) , would successively grace this House by occupy the Speaker ' s Chair ? I wish to make congratulation a theme of my short contribution . I want to congratulate in particular the three maiden speaker we have hear so far . it take quite a bit of do to make one ' s maiden speech so soon after enter the House of Commons , and it be greatly to their credit that they make such generous tribute to their predecessor . the hon . member for Bolton North East ( Kirith Entwistle ) talk about work across party boundary , which I wish to come back to . the hon . member for Wolverhampton West ( Warinder Juss ) concentrate on housing issue and the great sport record and legacy of his beloved Wolverhampton . I , too , can remember Billy Wright from all those year ago . the hon . member for Southport ( Patrick Hurley ) , who have just speak , show an intimate knowledge of the local issue affect his new seat , and I be sure he will be extremely assiduous in attend to they . I say that I believe congratulation be a theme that be in order , and I wish to echo what my right hon . friend the Member for Herne Bay and Sandwich ( Sir Roger Gale ) say about the result of the election and the way in which power be transfer . it go without say that whenever we have a general election and one side achieve a significant absolute majority , as have happen in this case , there will be a majority of people in the Chamber who feel self - congratulatory , but I suggest that we all ought to congratulate ourselves and each other on the way in which we have handle the transfer of power . it be a cause for great concern that when we look among modern democracy , both in western Europe and , sadly , across the Atlantic , we see that the cause of democracy in those country be currently so ragged and threadbare . let we hope it be but a pass phase . to those situate on the Opposition Benches , I have to say that , bad though the result be for the Conservative party , those who observe these Benches today should not think it be quite as much of a wipeout as it might appear . I think that two of we at least have have the experience of sit on these Benches before . I be one of 32 first - time conservative mp elect in the Blair landslide of 1997 . I have 13 year on the Opposition Benches , and then after that I have five year in a coalition . which be the bad I be not sure , but I offer a piece of advice to all new entrant to the House , include on the government Benches : if you want to enjoy your time in this place , ask yourself the follow question , and hopefully give yourself the right answer . would you still want to be here if you know that you be go to be a Back Bencher for all of your parliamentary career ? if the answer be yes , you be in the right place . cle to it , because then anything else that happen be a bonus . if the answer be no , you make the wrong career decision . get out at the next possible opportunity , because you will never be satisfied . People who come in with that attitude be disappoint . they may make it to the Front Bench but not make it to be a Cabinet Minister . they may make it to the Cabinet but not get to be one of the top four , or they may make it to the top four but not get the top job . we know what happen even to many Prime Ministers who get right to the top . so enjoy the status that you have get , bank it and look on everything else as a dividend . I turn to the King ' s Speech , on which I will make just a couple of observation , because we do not have the time for anything more detailed . on planning presumption , I be always a little bit worried about presumption in favour of this and presumption in favour of that . let we hope that be not a shorthand for ignore what people want . in my constituency of New Forest East , the big local issue for the first six year of my time in this place be a proposal to build a giant container port on reclaimed land on Southampton water call Dibden bay . Associated British Ports say that , without do that , the port of Southampton would begin to die . we fight that for six year and we win . guess what ? the port of Southampton do not die ; it find other way of deal with the container traffic , which have thrive . now we have the prospect of a freeport in the area . I like to think that the new people in charge of Associated British Ports will be a lot more sensitive about what they plan for the delicate part of the constituency . all I would say be : do not trample roughshod over community ' concern about major infrastructure project , because sometimes that may not get we the good project . on conversion therapy , I just leave a question hang in the air . anybody who vote for this change need to be able to answer this point : what be it that you be propose to outlaw that be not already forbid under exist law ? the danger with well - intentione law of this nature be that we can end up really talk about thought crime . seventy - five year after George Orwell ' s " Nineteen Eighty - Four " be publish — technically speak , perhaps it be now 76 year — we need to be wary of that . I have a constituent with whom I happen to disagree about abortion . he be totally oppose to abortion ; I be not , and I do not think that there should be demonstration outside abortion clinic . he want to be able to stand silently by himself on the pavement and pray internally . if he be ask by the police what he be do and he say , " I be think about my shopping list " — or some other domestic issue — he be fine , but if he admit that he be pray in relation to the abortion issue , he could end up be accuse of commit an offence . we should be careful before go down that road too far . when it come to modernise the membership of the House of Lords , we must be careful about blanket proposal . a well - inform group lead by Professor Lord Norton of Louth have be grapple with sensible way of try to modernise and reform the House of Lords for quite a number of year . such voice need to be listen to . the House of Lords , though some people be appoint to it on the wrong basis , do an important job . if I may please have a few more moment , I have one last point , which be significant and relate to the Intelligence and Security Committee . this be an essential matter that will need to be incorporate into one of the piece of legislation that the Government be to introduce . a single amendment to the Justice and Security Act 2013 be require to protect a particular aspect of our parliamentary democracy that be currently be undermine . the amendment would establish an independent office to support the Intelligence and Security Committee of Parliament — which I chair until recently — in order to safeguard the Committee ' s independence . for the benefit of the new member of the House , the ISC be a cross - party and cross - House Committee create by statute . under the Justice and Security Act 2013 , the ISC have the legal responsibility for oversee the UK ' s intelligence community on behalf of Parliament . new Members will be surprised to hear that the ISC ' s office — a very small number of staff — belong to the Cabinet Office , when the ISC oversee large part of the Cabinet Office . they would be right to be surprised . that be a fundamental conflict of interest . that be why , at the time of the Justice and Security Act , the Cabinet Office be suppose to be only a temporary home but , in the more than 10 year that have elapse since then , the Committee ' s office be still beholden to , vulnerable within and unfairly pressurise by the very part of the Executive that it be charge with oversee . the Executive should not be able to constrain and control the Committee ' s democratic oversight on behalf of Parliament by exert control over the Committee ' s small team to the extent that the Cabinet Office official be actually override the Committee , as have happen repeatedly in respect of staff assessment in recent year , or starve it of resource so that it be unable to fulfil its legal responsibility . the member of the ISC in the last Parliament therefore determine unanimously — across all party and both Houses represent by its membership — that it be essential for parliamentary democracy that the Committee ' s office move out from under the control of the Executive and be establish instead as an independent body corporate with a link to Parliament rather than the Executive . in the King ' s Speech — this be my final point — we hear this morning a programme outline that give an obvious vehicle for put this matter right : the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association and International Committee of the Red Cross Status Bill , which be design to change the status of those two organisation . that be therefore the obvious place to include a short amendment to the legislation necessary to change the status of the Committee ' s organisation as well . I hope that we can work across party boundary to ensure that the resource and the independence of the staff of the Intelligence and Security Committee can now be secure after a difficult time in which the excellent staff have help to produce many important report . however , they should not have to be look over their shoulder with a problem of this sort . rise — Order . I must now impose a time limit of seven minute . may I congratulate all new and return member on their election success ? the right hon . member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) be right in say that it be the great of privilege to be able to represent our constituent . I certainly pay real attention to my constituent in York Central and assure they that I will do all I can to ensure that their voice be hear , not least with the privilege of be in power . we must make the most of every opportunity , as today ' s King ' s Speech have clearly demonstrate for all to see . first , on stabilise the economy , I say to those on our Treasury Bench that York Central will play its part not only by create 12 , 500 new job in the York Central development , take forward advanced rail technology and bioscience , but through BioYorkshire , with 4 , 000 green - collar job and a green new deal for York and wide Yorkshire . it will be a huge privilege to work with Front - Bench colleague to see that come to fruition . it be not just about the economy . we will build the home and the public service that we long to see in Opposition . we will overturn the injustice that have crush so many hope and so many community , entrench now in inequality , and ensure that we build those service in the interest of the people we represent . labour ' s employment right Bill will be so refreshing to worker . I refer to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests ; I be a proud trade unionist . I be proud of the work of trade union : work people , work together for a well future , end fire and rehire and the disgrace of minimum service level agreement , and give worker fresh right from the day they start work . I ask my Front - Bench team to consider my private Member ' s Bill to outlaw bully at work , ensure a legal definition of bully alongside discrimination and harassment and provide a route to an employment tribunal to seek justice , alongside an enforcement body to improve workplace culture . it could be transformative , reduce absenteeism and increase productivity , and it need include . I stand here as a Co - operative MP , of which I be so proud . I will ensure that we embed our value in the Government ' s agenda , grow the co - operative sector , ensure community energy alongside great British Energy , create those safe high street and enable local ownership so that asset in our community be give back to our community . labour be determined to build the home that our constituent desperately need . York have a serious housing crisis . council housing and first home will show that Labour be on the side of family and community . with rent out of control and housing disparity fail our community as the market determine everything , we can once again control the right that people should have to live in a safe home . the renter ' right Bill and the draft leasehold and commonhold reform will make a difference to my constituent , and I be proud that they be in today ' s speech . I be still on the campaign trail on Airbnbs and short - term holiday let . the last Government say before the summer that they would legislate and regulate , but they do not . I trust that my front - Bench team will now bring forward not a registration scheme — we know where these thing be — but a licensing scheme so that we can control the growth of short - term holiday let . there be 2 , 000 of they in my constituency — one in 10 house . we need to take control of all housing . I gently say to the Minister that we have be wait 68 year and count for a local plan . we need York ' s local plan to be deliver . it will no long be like pull tooth to get action on NHS dentistry . my hon . friend the Minister be already at work deliver for our future , but we should look at the Health Committee ' s report from the last Parliament on NHS dentistry . it set out a blueprint to really reform dentistry , to ensure access , treatment and well oral health . as we know , the NHS as a whole be on its knee . as a former physio , I know the importance of get it back on its foot again . when we leave office in 2010 , the NHS be the most efficient health service in the world . our ambition in government must be to restore those credential , and not just in health but in social care , too . this must be the Parliament of social care , to complete the deal that people can have security in late life , this Government will take care of they and they do not need to fear those latter year . there be so much we need to do on health . we have hear today about the Mental Health Act and the tobacco and vape Bill , and so much more be on our agenda . I will do everything , as I have for over 30 year , to work for a well health service build by that radical , reform 1945 Government . I trust that this Government will be as radical and as reform as that , ensure the NHS be safe in public hand . finally , I turn to education . I say to our education team that we need a new approach . we need to rip up that behaviourist approach that be do so much harm to our young people , and introduce a nurturing , therapeutic approach to education . I be hearten to hear about the child ' s wellbee Bill , which be so need at this time , and review the curriculum and ensure that young child leave school not just with good result but as confident young people , whose wellbeing and mental health be as important as their exam result . I far call on the Government to take action on academy trust , which have spin out of control . we need accountability , and education funding spend on actual education , not on executive salary and bonus , as it currently be . we need education bring back under local authority control , so that the whole system can hold together and work together . those change at Ofsted be necessary , but we need to ensure that all our child have access to a nurture education system that will make a difference to they and their future . I will work with our Front - Bench team to ensure that we be look after child , no matter what challenge they face at home and school . it be an honour to be call in this debate , Mr Deputy Speaker . let I start by thank my constituent for put their faith in I again and return I to this place for a fifth term . I want to comment on the previous speech . there have be some excellent speech , particularly the three maiden speech that we have hear . this Parliament be unique , as be every Parliament because each and every one be make up of the Members . we hear today in those maiden speech that we can have faith that this will be an excellent Parliament , because they show we that we have some truly great champion for local area here in Parliament . I also want to comment on the two opening speech . the hon . member for Bootle ( Peter Dowd ) make a wonderful speech to open the debate and propose the Loyal Address . he be one of the kind Members of Parliament , and it be lovely that he be choose to be the proposer . I want to pick up on the comment make by the seconder , the hon . member for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green ( Florence Eshalomi ) , about my very good friend Nickie Aiken . we miss Nickie desperately , but we be so pleased that she get her Pedicabs ( London ) Act 2024 through . it be an achievement for she , and I know that the hon . Lady be also benefit from that . I be strike that much in the King ' s Speech feel like a process , not an event . I look at many of those Bills , and I go back to when I be a Minister . I think about the work that I do in the Home Office on the violence against woman and girl strategy and to strengthen our domestic abuse law . I be very pleased to see a Bill that we will be work on . we can not stand still on this issue . we constantly have to keep move on it , because perpetrator get wise and work out way to buck the system . I be very pleased to see that that have be include . I be pleased to see a new law on spike — something that many colleague be look to introduce before the general election . I be also pleased that there will be a mental health Bill — something that many of we push for . again , I pay tribute to a previous Member , Dame Jackie Doyle - Price , who be such an advocate for that and raise it on numerous occasion . I be pleased we will see Martyn ' s law introduce . I be the Secretary of State in the Department for Digital , Culture , Media and Sport when the Manchester Arena attack happen . it be good to know that from the lesson we have learn from that attack we can take legislative step to make thing safe . I also pay tribute to the progress make from the work of a previous Prime Minister soon to be in the House of Lords , Theresa May . she introduce the race equality audit , which look closely at what be go on in the public sector and other organisation . without that work , it would not be possible for a new race equality Bill to be propose . she be the one who take the issue of Hillsborough seriously . she make sure that we have the full inquiry and have find out the truth . it be quite right that the Hillsborough law will be bring forward . in the previous Parliament I have the honour of chair the british group of the Inter - Parliamentary Union . I have be heavily involve in the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association UK and I co - chair the british - Irish Parliamentary Assembly . it be good to see so many friend from all side who be involve in those organisation . I would say to any new member to get themselves involve with these fantastic body , which give we an insight into global issue and build connection and link with our friend in Parliaments around the world . I welcome a new Bill to look at legacy in Northern Ireland . that issue can be tackle only if there be cross - party support on the ground in Northern Ireland . it can not be impose from here . we all want a solution to that issue . it be raise time and again at the british - Irish Parliamentary Assembly , so I be glad that it will be look at . I be also pleased that there will be a Bill to settle the constitutional status of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association . we do start that process , but we could not get it finish and it be incredibly important . finally , I will just comment on global issue and the middle east . I have see at first - hand , through the Inter - Parliamentary Union Assembly , just how difficult these issue be to address . there be disruptor in the world who want to do we harm . they be make sure that the view around the world be the view that they want to see . we need to be incredibly careful and take that very seriously , because we need the hostage release , we need a ceasefire and humanitarian aid in , and we need to ensure that international law be observe . my final point relate completely to my constituency : the status of the Staffordshire Moorlands . we be a very proud and unique area . we be part of the Peak District national park . we have beautiful Churnet valley , which be desperate for area of outstanding natural beauty status . but we face challenge . we be concerned about what might happen with devolution , as we do not want to be in a unitary authority across north Staffordshire . we want to keep our unique identity . we do not want the green belt between our village and the city build on . we want power to ensure that locally elect people make the decision on solar farm development , battery storage development , pylon and other local matter . I urge the government : please , no top - down target ; please , no imposition from above . listen to the people on the ground . this matter to they . Staffordshire Moorlands need to keep its unique identity . it be a real honour to speak in this debate on the King ' s Speech and to follow the right hon . member for Staffordshire Moorlands ( Dame Karen Bradley ) . I thank she for her thoughtful and consider speech . I commend the three new member on their maiden speech . each be individual and different , but heartfelt and completely appropriate . well do to all of they . the good news be that they have now achieve that and get it out the way , so they can get on with the rest of the job . it be also a real privilege to speak as the first Member of Parliament for the new constituency of Newport West and Islwyn . as I say in my acceptance speech on 4 July , it be an honour to represent the constituent of the new constituency , which include the former seat of Lord Neil Kinnock , Don Touhig and , of course , my immediate predecessor the late great Paul Flynn . I be very pleased that our new Labour Prime Minister set out so clearly that this Government be here to serve the country and not be self - centre or self - serve . we in this House be public servant . we should do all we can to ensure that we represent the people who vote for we , and those who do not , to ensure their voice be hear in this place of power . we must work to ensure the good outcome for all of they . the King ' s Speech be full of detail of legislation to be lay in the come month and I be excited to see it unfold . we can start to make a difference to people ' s life in Newport West and Islwyn , across Wales and the rest of the UK . as a former trade union officer , I be so glad to see that the new deal for work people will be bring forward to ban exploitative practice and to enhance employment right . we need to end the terrible practice of fire and rehire quickly , and the use of zero - hour contract . it be so important that people be pay fairly and that work be reward . but we also need a safety net for those who be not able to work and need support , sometimes for a short time , while other need long term support . legislation to reform rail franchising will be most welcome , especially by people like I who travel on the train on a weekly basis . we need to ensure that there be fair investment across the rail network , and that passenger get a fair deal on ticket and get to their destination in comfort and on time . I look forward to the establishment of great British Railways in due course . I be also look forward to the introduction of great British Energy , a publicly own clean power company which will be base in Scotland . I have to say gently to the government that I be sure we could have have it base in Wales , but I will leave that debate for another day ! I also welcome the measure to strengthen community policing , deal more effectively with antisocial behaviour and improve victim support . I have work with a number of woman in my constituency who have suffer domestic abuse for many , many year . I want to ensure the police learn from their story , and that any potential victim in the future have their issue address and their life make safe as quickly as possible . I be also pleased to see include a Bill to progressively increase the age at which people can buy cigarette , and , most importantly , to impose limit on the sale and marketing of vape . as a former physiotherapist like my hon . friend the Member for York Central ( Rachael Maskell ) , I be extremely concerned that people across the UK be still die from cigarette - relate condition . I have treat patient who have irreversible change to their lung and other condition directly due to smoking . the evidence of the link between nicotine and poor health and premature death have be very clear for many year now , but we also know that the longitudinal evidence on vaping have not yet be undertake fully . we need to be cautious about the use of vape , in particular the easy way that child and young people be able to obtain they . the addictive nature of vape be well known . I have speak to local school teacher who find that pupil be have to leave lesson , or even exam , to vape . that be so disruptive to the individual pupil and the whole class . it would be good to ensure safety and limit access to vape . that legislation can not come soon enough . I must also mention the plan to reform the House of Lords , as my predecessor Paul Flynn spend many year call for that . he would be delighted to hear this news and would immediately start ask when ! he would be gratify to hear that the abolition of hereditary peer will be achieve within the first term of this Parliament . I look forward to learn more about these constitutional reform and how the other place will continue to scrutinise the work of this Chamber , because that be very important . its role have be so vital in recent month and year , as we witness in the last Parliament . it would be remiss of I not to mention some area that be not mention in the King ' s Speech . the right hon . member for Herne Bay and Sandwich ( Sir Roger Gale ) , and many member of this House , be very well aware of the importance of animal welfare . I have hundred of email on this vital topic every month . I must admit I be disappoint not to read of any animal welfare legislation , such as the banning of hunt trophy or puppy smuggling , the introduction of a keep animal Bill , and the tightening up of the rule around trail hunting in the King ' s Speech . I gently ask my Front - Bench colleague to ensure that these important piece of legislation be bring forward in this Parliament . I be happy to be reassure that not everything make the final cut in the King ' s Speech . you can rely on I , Mr Deputy Speaker , to speak out on animal welfare , because animal can not . there be so many other aspect of the King ' s Speech that I would like to commend , but I be very conscious of other want to speak . I support the plan legislation and I urge my Front - Bench colleague to begin their work straight away to bring hope to people across the UK and to make this country a place fit for the 21st century — safe and prosperous , and where people be proud to live and raise their family . it be a great pleasure to be able to take part in this debate . I congratulate the new member on their maiden speech . I put on record my deep thank to all the people of the Islington North constituency for vote for I in the election to be an independent MP . fight as an independent be an interesting experience after fight 10 election as a labour candidate . it be a very different experience . you have to have a deep and very honest conversation with everybody on every doorstep as to why you be do it . I be grateful to the people for their response and for their confidence in I to be their Member of Parliament . I put on record my thank to they . this election show an enormous parliamentary majority for the Labour party . I congratulate all Labour mp who have be elect and congratulate the Government on take office , but I think people should be a little bit careful . the total vote for Labour be low in this election than it be in the last two general election . a number of independent like I be elect , and there be an increase in Green MPs , an increase in Plaid Cymru mp and an increase in Sinn F é in mps from Northern Ireland . there be level of discontent in our society that be reflect in the election result . we ought to reflect on that . People in this election be totally feed up with fall living standard , increase level of poverty , increase level of homelessness , and high level of mental health stress and deep unease among many people in all our community . as the right hon . member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) say early , if the Government do not deliver on improve living standard for the very poor in our society and deliver on improve the public service that everybody rely on , then the alternative be a turn towards the far right in politic , who will simply blame migrant , refugee or any handy minority for the problem that people face . we need something concrete that set out a strong message about how we will improve living standard and make for a fairer society . a good start would be end the two - child benefit cap immediately . it would cost £ 1 . 3 billion , take 250 , 000 child out of poverty instantly , and be a signal that we be serious . the idea of a commission to look at poverty be no doubt very welcome . I be sure Sir Humphrey think that one up very fast : " quick , folk , there be a problem . a lot of mp be complain about the two - child cap . let we set up a commission and just delay this . " but why not do it now ? why not say , quite simply , " we be go to end the cap " ? it be cruel and nasty to suggest that the third , fourth or fifth child in a family be less valuable than the first two . I hope the Government will listen to that , and I hope that if there be a vote next week , a substantial number will vote in exactly the same way as Members vote in 1997 when the incoming Government decide to cut the lone parent benefit , and be forever mark by that decision . why not make this decision now ? my constituency , like many other , suffer from serious housing problem . level of homelessness be increase all the time , with not just rough sleeping but overcrowding , and the private rent sector be completely unaffordable . I be interested by the section of the King ' s Speech about regulation of the sector . everything in that be fine , and I agree with it all , but there be something missing : there be no reference to control rent level . that be the fundamental problem . yes , we want security of tenure and yes , we want decent condition , but if the private rented sector be not regulate , inner - city community such as mine will simply suffer further migration as people be price out of the area . we need a comprehensive housing strategy that regulate the private rent sector , bring the housing association under control — because , in my experience , they be not democratic in any way — and , above all , ensure that resource be available for the building of council housing , which be the most secure , permanent form of housing that we can provide . that would help to reduce the level of housing stress : there be currently a million people on the social housing register . I want to make two more point in the short time that be available . the Thatcher Government from 1979 onwards be beyond obsess with the privatisation of public service . whenever they be oppose on that — I be in the Chamber throughout that time , and I be happy to say that I vote against every single one of the privatisation — they say , " it be fine : regulation will take care of it . " well , we have have more than 30 year of regulation of the water industry , and during that time £ 72 billion have be take out of water company in either profit or dividend rather than be spend on investment in infrastructure . we now have record high bill , a demand for even high bill from the water company , and unprecedented level of sewage disposal in our river and also in the sea , which be contrary to the global oceans treaty that we apparently support . surely it be pretty obvious that the privatisation have fail . let we bring the industry back into public ownership , and ensure that we have reasonably price , clean water and investment rather than profit - taking . my last point concern a global issue . I will say this very quickly , because I have only a minute leave . the war in Gaza have already cost 40 , 000 life , and surely now be the time to do a number of thing . first , we should demand a ceasefire with all the vigour we can bring to that . secondly , we should end the supply of arm to Israel : it be our bomb , in part , that be be use to bomb Gaza and have take the life of 40 , 000 people . however , it be also a question of the withdrawal of the occupy force . surely peace can come if we do something about it . I hope that the defence review come up will be not just about increase defence expenditure but will look at the global situation and see what we can do to promote a peaceful , sustainable world and defend human right and democracy in the world . in the last Parliament I be a member of the Council of Europe , and I enjoy defend the principle of the european convention on human right and the universal declaration of human right . we can make a contribution for a peaceful , sustainable world if we want to . it be a pleasure to follow the right hon . member for Islington North ( Jeremy Corbyn ) . may I congratulate all member who have be return to the House of Commons , and in particularly I congratulate and welcome all the new member . I wish they every success and happiness in their time in the House . the Humble Address be introduce by my hon . friend the Member for Bootle ( Peter Dowd ) , a great friend of mine , and second by my hon . friend the Member for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green ( Florence Eshalomi ) . they be both warm , kind people — probably the two kind I know in the House — and their speech be very warm , very humorous and very interesting . that be the highlight of the day , in my view . I must thank , in particular , my constituent in St Helens South and Whiston for return I once again . it be a great honour to represent the town in which I be bear , and in which I hope to die , and to represent those great people who have work so hard during their life . for too long , social care and the need of elderly and vulnerable patient have not be adequately consider , but social care be just as important as our national health service . indeed , the NHS have suffer greatly from the lack of appropriate and necessary recognition and consideration of social care within Government . we have hear time and again about record waiting list , patient be treat in hospital corridor , and ambulance carry patient have to queue for hour outside A & E . accord to a communication from the North West Ambulance Service , 30 - odd ambulance have be stick in Whiston hospital car park . the hospital have already turn a corridor into a ward and be do everything it could , but the ambulance be still stick in the car park . this be simply because hospital be over capacity — and Whiston have be well over 100 % capacity on many occasion . it be a very popular and very good hospital , but it be overstretch . elderly and chronically sick people be not be give the dignity that they deserve . at time , unsafe discharge have occur in various hospital , and that need to change . there be a new term now : it be not " bed - block " , but " accommodation not clinically need " . social care must be fix and properly finance , and it must be truly affordable for people to use . the pressure that the NHS be under will only be fix if social care be fix as well . because of the wonder of modern medicine , people be live long , but that often bring with it multiple complex need . our care system have not keep up with these change . family care , and they also need support . care staff can not leave a sick person alone wait for an ambulance . often they wait for hour , which have a knock - on effect on shift pattern and , ultimately , on other patient who be wait for the care and support that they need . elderly and vulnerable patient should not be leave wait for food , medicine and personal care . the NHS and the care sector need to be well integrate , in order to stop situation like that arise . care home and nursing home be also close , so , again , there be a lack of capacity lead to unsafe discharge . the sector be in crisis , and patient be suffer . when it come to adult social care reform , priority must be give to treat patient at home where they feel comfortable , with their family around they and with their neighbour pop in . that be essential , both to protect hospital bed capacity and to give elderly and disabled people the dignity they deserve and the ability to stay in the home they love in familiar surrounding . Most of the care , and even some of the medical and clinical treatment , can be give at home — I have witness this — and that can free up NHS bed capacity for those who need the bed to receive treatment that they can not receive at home . the current system of rely on local authority whose budget have be cut for more than a decade be not good enough . even with the additional social care levy , local authority be struggle to cope . the levy be base on council tax level , so the area with the low return will receive a pittance . it be in those area that more people need care and support . accord to the Local Government Association , 57 % of council tax already go on social care . it be not sustainable , because there be less and less money , and more and more people . we live long now , and we will continue to live long in the long term , so the problem will only continue to get bad . social care should be finance nationally , and it should follow the need of patient . we can not give a quota of money when there be hundred of people in one borough , and perhaps 100 in another borough , need support ; it need to follow the need of the patient . one of the sector ' s major problem be hire and retain care worker , who do an incredibly difficult job . they be absolute angel , who look after our elderly relative and love one with love and compassion . social care should be promote as a value service , and professional in the sector deserve recognition and respect , yet the pay and term and condition need to match the duty we ask of they . the whole sector need a rework to ensure that it pay fairly and offer progression , so that staff can afford to stay in the job that they love and want to do . they should be value . labour have promise , rightly , to set up a national care service , thereby finally put care on a par with the NHS , because it need to be a modern healthcare system . there need to be sector of social and healthcare profession . the reform need to look at the funding model , at - home treatment , staffing issue and , crucially , the integration with the NHS . first of all , may I correct something the right hon . member for Islington North ( Jeremy Corbyn ) say ? there have not be an increase in Sinn F é in representation follow the election , though people might be forgive for think so , give the way the BBC report on the election in Northern Ireland . secondly , may I congratulate the Government on their success in the election ? like other , we wish they every success , because a successful Government mean a successful country . thirdly , may I say to all those who have make their maiden speech today that it be a very nervous experience ? I can remember my maiden speech . my party ' s leader at the time , Ian Paisley , take I aside and say , " Sammy , there be three thing you ' ve get to do . first of all , you ' ve get to speak nicely about your constituency . " over the year , I have listen to people speak about their constituency in their maiden speech , and I have always think that they would make great estate agent . secondly , he say , " say nice thing about your predecessor , " despite the fact that I have spend a year knock on door , talk to people , address meeting and give out leaflet to tell people why they should not vote for he . lastly , he say , " Sammy , don ' t be controversial . " come from Ian Paisley , that advice really cap it all . I will say two thing about the King ' s Speech in the time available to I . first , I be pleased that the Government be look at how they can strengthen the Union and for way to foster collaboration between the devolved administration , because sometimes devolve administration can be very divisive for the coherence of the country . they claim all the benefit and take credit for all the good thing that happen , and they blame Westminster for all the bad thing , which can cause division . as a Unionist , I be pleased to see that , through the propose council of the nation and region , we will hopefully get a great degree of collaboration , communication and understanding between different part of the Union . however , I have to say that this issue can not be address unless the Government seriously look at the damage do to the Union by the previous Administration , which make Northern Ireland a sacrificial lamb in order to get a deal with the EU , leave we with the economic and constitutional disadvantage and division that that have cause . those be manifest on a daily basis , and the EU seem determined not to address they — whether it be veterinary medicine , which will wreck the farming industry ; the recent dental amalgam , which will make dental treatment more expensive and very difficult in Northern Ireland ; the late controversy about funding for the shipyard and whether it contravene state aid rule ; or the disruption of supply chain , which be an issue that have to be address . we can not have an economic division between Northern Ireland and the rest of the United Kingdom , and a government who profess that they want to strengthen the Union can not ignore that elephant in the room . many of the new member who have be elect come here because they want to have an influence on the law that govern the United Kingdom . there be 300 area of law in Northern Ireland that be determine not by this Parliament or by the people elect in Northern Ireland , but in Europe , without any input from anyone in the United Kingdom . that be not democracy , and it have to be address . the second issue I will mention be the Government ' s commitment to economic growth . in any country , economic growth depend upon cheap energy , and I be fearful that some of the policy that have already be implement , and the promise make in the King ' s Speech , will make it difficult to achieve economic growth . in the previous Parliament we lament , almost on a monthly basis , the loss of energy - intensive industry . it do not matter whether it be Port Talbot , Corby or Grangemouth . representative from all over the United Kingdom see the impact on their local community , with thousand of job be lose because of energy policy and the cost of implement net zero . if we be aim for economic growth , we can not allow the obsession with net zero to stand in the way of job in this country . I notice that in the commitment to net zero in the King ' s Speech , we be tell that we will get low energy bill over time . initially , of course , we will have high energy bill . we want to remove the infrastructure that we have in place and put totally new infrastructure in place — windmill , new line and all the other infrastructure that be require to bring energy from place where we do not currently produce it to where we need it . we need to strengthen the grid , because we be go to use more electricity . all of that cost , and it will put up consumer ’ bill . at the same time , of course , we will make ourselves more dependent on the country that supply all the vital metal require for that . we do not even gain any environmental benefit . the right hon . member for Herne Bay and Sandwich ( Sir Roger Gale ) talk about the impact on his community . in my constituency , I see the Antrim hill be strip of peat , 3 metre deep , to build wind farm . that be suppose to be environmental improvement . I look forward , over the period of this Government , to examine just what they do on this issue . we need to make sure that we do not have contradictory policy , whereby we aim for net zero but dip our hand into people ' s pocket to pay for it . this be the first time I have ever be able to speak from the Government side of the House , have first be elect in 2015 , which be six Prime Ministers ago . in the 2015 general election , Bermondsey and Old Southwark be so far down Labour ' s target list — it be no . 84 , I think — that the rule of thumb be that if I win , we would be in government . I will not ask where everyone else have be for the last nine year , but I will thank they and congratulate they on be here today , especially colleague who have already make their maiden speech and those who will make they in the come week and month . it be amazing finally to be on this side of the House , but I can not say that it have be worth the wait , give what the Tories have do to our country over the past few year . my constituent ' overwhelming sentiment since the election be one of relief , and of shake off the sense of shame and embarrassment about the previous Government and the country ' s economic devastation . my constituent be still pay high bill and mortgage as a result of tory economic incompetence , but there be relief that the shame of the last Government be over . we see the Equality and Human Rights Commission have to investigate the Department for Work and Pensions because of its unlawful behaviour towards disabled people . through political incompetence and maladministration , the second big spending Government Department be unable to support disabled people properly . change in the leadership of that Department could not be more refreshing . another cause for relief be that the Rwanda policy be scrap . it be an unlawful , immoral international embarrassment that be raise with our Foreign Office and raise on every trip I go on with the Foreign Affairs Committee , to the UN , to the US and to Brazil . wherever we go , country see that we be shirk responsibility while other shoulder a great responsibility . it be also a relief for taxpayer because it be such a colossal waste — a humongous , knuckle - head nonsense . I can not even repeat what Tory Ministers call the scheme when they be in government , because it would be unparliamentary language , but it cost hundred of million of pound at a time when my constituent be be tell that the £ 20 uplift on universal credit be unaffordable , that see a doctor or dentist be just not possible and that have enough police be a luxury and somehow not a Government priority , all while million be pour down the Rwanda drain . and for what ? a scheme that send no one but Tory Home Secretaries to Rwanda at an outrageous cost . for the price of send one person to Rwanda you could send six people into space , and the electorate give their verdict two week ago when they blast the Tories into space . and yes , terrible pun be on my leaflet in the election . the Leader of the Opposition — it feel good to say that — say today that he wish to work with the new Government on certain policy . I say to new MPs that from opposition I be able to improve the law on housing right for woman flee domestic violence , on some terminally ill disabled people receive support from the personal independence payment and on support for community affect by terror attack . I say to they : take the Prime Minister up on his offer . he say that the door be open , so take he up on that offer to seek improvement that benefit your constituent . since the election , I have have constituent come in to Parliament . two school have come in : St Michael ' s college in Bermondsey and the Southwark inclusive learn service from London Bridge . it have be amazing to speak to young people about the new priority and how the new Government be already begin to mend and heal the UK with the work do in the first week and announce today in the Gracious Speech . this include lift the ban on onshore wind despite Green opposition , boost UK investment , begin to fix our NHS , tackle crime and antisocial behaviour and reassert target for house building , which be a very welcome priority for my constituency in Southwark , where housing be always the no . 1 priority . I flag to the new Government and new Ministers that the Bakerloo line extension would bring 20 , 000 new home at least , and benefit not just transport infrastructure and home but job across the country , and boost our economy . I hope to see the Bakerloo line extension deliver under the new Government , offer new hope and new ambition for Britain from a Government who finally say to people not what they can not have but what we be seek to achieve for our country and for our people ' s future , include today . of particular personal importance to I be fix mental health service . my mum have schizophrenia , a mental health condition , and that be my route into public policy awareness and politic . to have the chance to influence and shape mental health service as we in the Labour party begin to fix they and build out well be an enormous privilege . I want to end today with a special thank you to the wonderful people of Bermondsey and Old Southwark for give I my fourth win , include defeat an independent Corbyn candidate ; to the Labour member in my constituency who fight so hard , both locally and in other target seat ; and importantly , to my local Labour party executive for all their hard work and support , in the last Parliament in particular and over the election period . I look forward to deliver the well Britain they fight for , under this Labour Government . for his maiden speech , I call Graham Leadbitter . it be an honour to have be elect to represent Moray West , Nairn and Strathspey , which be something of an amalgam of a couple of previous constituency . first , I would like to thank the electorate of the constituency for send I to this place to represent they and for put their trust in I for the year to come . on my arrival here , an amazing job have be do by the House staff , the Independent Parliamentary Standards Authority and other , and I can not thank they enough for the welcome that they have provide we as new mp . I have a number of predecessor that I need to thank , not least because mine be nearly two constituency roll into one . first of all there be Douglas Ross , who represent Moray for the Conservatives for several recent year . we be not very close on the political spectrum , it have to be say , but there be a number of occasion where we do come together across party for the benefit of the constituency and the wide region , notably in the achievement of the growth deal for Moray and to maximise the spend that we get on that . I be sure the official opposition would also want to thank he for his service in the Scotland Office . my predecessor in Inverness , Nairn , Badenoch and Strathspey be Drew Hendry , who be a regular contributor from the Scottish National party Benches . he represent we as an Opposition spokesperson on the economy , trade , foreign affair , business , enterprise and investment , and transport over several term as an MP for that area . he be also an assiduous campaigner on energy poverty , which be a particular issue for the highland and island and in Moray . I hope that energy regulation be one of the area that the Government ' s commission on poverty will look at very seriously . my right hon . friend the Member for Aberdeen South ( Stephen Flynn ) , the leader of the SNP in this place , mention the two - child cap . I will not go into too much detail on that because it have already be well cover , but energy poverty be a critical issue for many family throughout the highland and Moray . bring in a social tariff , for example , would certainly make a big difference to family right across the highland . other predecessor have include several well - know parliamentarian . Labour Members will , I be sure , be pleased to know that my constituency be the birthplace of Ramsay MacDonald , and it have also be represent very ably by several notable SNP mps over the year . one of the most famous be Winnie Ewing , who reconvene the Scottish Parliament in 1999 and also represent the area in the Scottish Parliament , in this place and in Europe . her daughter - in - law , Margaret Ewing , be an assiduous campaigner on poverty issue and will be well known to old member of the House — or long - serve member of the House be perhaps more parliamentary . more recently there be Angus Robertson , who lead the party in this place for a good number of year and be now a Cabinet Secretary in the Scottish Government . we can take a quick stroll through Moray West , Nairn and Strathspey . it go from the white sand of Lossiemouth , Burghead and Nairn right up to the Cairngorms peak . it have the city of Elgin in it , which have now be establish as a cathedral city for 800 year ; it be celebrate the 800th anniversary of the cathedral be establish there . the constituency have the Speyside town of rothe , Aberlour and Dufftown . Dufftown , of course , be build on seven still rather than seven hill . in the Badenoch and Strathspey town we get Grantown , Aviemore , Newtonmore and Kingussie among other . we have surf , skiing and mountain biking . there be a mountain railway , and we have a national park and a major wildlife park with everything from pine marten to polar bear . move back up to the coast , in Ardersier we have the green freeport . the Scottish Government have work closely with the UK Government on that , and I be sure they will continue to do so . the green freeport be incredibly important to we in Moray West , Nairn and Strathspey . it be project to have 3 , 500 job within 10 year , and it will be vital for just transition . that will need careful scrutiny over the come year . tourism , the labour market and affordable housing be major issue , particularly in the Badenoch and Strathspey area . business have difficulty with staffing . they be often open only four or five day instead of seven . there be not really any significant unemployment — it be about 2 % to 3 % . there may be some room for get more employment from the local labour market , but fundamentally the big impact on the labour market there have be Brexit . immigration in that part of the world be a really significant issue , in that there be not enough of it . we have difficulty staff care home , the NHS and many business , which be fight over the same labour population . we have iconic food , drink and fashion brand , include Walker ' s Shortbread and Baxters , not to mention the 49 distillery that produce malt whisky and the numerous other distillery that produce gin and vodka . there be also a number of brewery . we contribute extremely significantly to the Exchequer , and it be really important that we get some of that back . we also have three military basis . Fort George currently host the Black Watch — the 3rd Battalion , Royal Regiment of Scotland . kinloss barrack be home to 39 Engineer Regiment , and RAF Lossiemouth be home to Typhoon , Poseidon and arrive Wedgetail squadron . the welfare of service personnel and veteran be absolutely vital , and it be something I will raise frequently in the House . civilian aerospace and space be the other major emerge sector . Orbex in Forres employ well over 100 people , and it will be do vertical launch from Sutherland and the SaxaVord spaceport . the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) will have to forgive I , but its headquarters be , in fact , in Moray West , Nairn and Strathspey . finally there be agriculture . crofter and hill farmer base in Badenoch and Strathspey in the Cairngorms national park face particular challenge . we also have arable and the pork sector in the laich of Moray , where there be again employment challenge that need to be tackle . Moray West , Nairn and Strathspey be the fifth large constituency , and it take more than two hour to drive end to end , but what a drive it be — I would recommend it to anybody . I look forward to represent the people live and work the length and breadth of my constituency . it be a great pleasure to follow the hon . member for Moray West , Nairn and Strathspey ( Graham Leadbitter ) , who be almost my namesake . it be a great pleasure to speak on his Majesty ' s first King ' s Speech under a Labour Government . we promise change and , as I look around Parliament , I see an awful lot of change , with people in new place and so many new face . I be enjoy start to get to know many of the newly elect member , mostly from my party , but from other party too . to they , I say welcome . and to you and your team , Mr Deputy Speaker , I say good luck learn everybody ' s name and face . by coincidence , the 4 July general election that put I in this place as the first MP for the new Spen Valley constituency come just three day after the third anniversary of the Batley and Spen by - election in which I be first elect to this place . it be fair to say that a lot have change in just three short year . I remember pound the street of Batley and Spen in 2021 during challenging time that be full of uncertainty , division and , for many people , fear . the dark cloud of the covid pandemic still hang over we , many people be struggle with the cost of living , and politic feel worryingly polarise in this and other country . I think it be fair to say that the Labour party be not in a great place . many doubt that we would see power again in 10 year , never mind three . if the result in Batley and Spen play its part in turn thing around and get we to where we be today , I be delighted that we be able to help . although I be delighted with the result , the Batley and Spen by - election be not a pleasant experience . at time , we see the bad of politic , include unacceptable behaviour from those who use our precious democracy to divide we rather than unite we . my constituent deserve well , and I hope passionately that no other candidate would have to go through what I go through . sadly , that have not be the case . although I be relieved that the general election campaign in Spen Valley be mostly conduct in a civilised manner , the same can not be say elsewhere . many candidate and their supporter , often woman , face threat , harassment and abuse . none of this should be part of any job , and it be not what our politic should look like . we must not normalise it , and we must all do our bit to change it . on this , the first day of the first debate in a new Parliament , we all have the opportunity to reset the dial on politic and work towards a political culture that foster robust , rigorous debate and scrutiny but do not allow fear , intimidation and abuse to become the norm . as his Majesty say , this Government " will take step to … rebuild trust and foster respect . " I wholeheartedly agree with this approach and will work with colleague across the House in this endeavour . I be a realistic optimist . I know it be not go to be easy to bring the change that our country need , but this new Parliament fill I with hope . I see people around I who be determined to be part of the change to a well kind of politic . the Prime Minister rightly describe it as the return of politic to public service , and he correctly say that this can be achieve only through action , not word . with so many new face and so much new energy and commitment , I believe we have a once - in - a - generation opportunity in this place to change not only the Government , although that be certainly welcome , but the whole culture of politic , to restore the business we be all in to one that people can look at with respect . that start with how we behave in here because , whether we like it or not , this Chamber be the window into our national politic . if we treat each other in here with courtesy , if we listen to the argument of those we disagree with as politely as we listen to the argument of those we support , and if we show that we can air our difference passionately but with genuine respect , people at home will notice . it would be the right thing to do even if they do not , but I believe they will . my constituent want to see change . they send I here to deliver it , and I will not let they down . it be a wonderful part of West Yorkshire where people have a real sense of pride in where they be from , whether that be the town of Heckmondwike , Mirfield , Birstall or Cleckheaton , or the many beautiful surround village — too many to list , but I will certainly make sure they all get a mention over the next five year . I understand that pride because I share it . it be where I be bear and have live all my life . in Spen Valley , we tell it like it be . we be not easily fool and we take no nonsense . so my constituent will only believe in change when they see it and when they feel it . this King ' s Speech set out the busy but exciting agenda to make that change happen , and the duty fall on we to make sure it do , whether it be affordable housing ; safe street and more police in our community ; tackle antisocial behaviour and violence against woman and girl ; shorter waiting time and well access to GPs and dentist on the NHS ; well education and opportunity for the young — academic and vocational — include for those with special educational need and disability ; reliable public transport ; support for people with mental health ; or social care that offer dignity in old age and for the most vulnerable in our society . I be all for give local people more power to make decision that affect their life , so I welcome the Deputy Prime Minister ' s pledge to kickstart a devolution revolution , with the economic growth and prosperity that underpin all this and help to give people a bit more at the end of the month , another thing about Yorkshire people be that we do not waste money . we know that you can ' t spend what you haven ' t get . so when my right hon . friend the Member for Leeds West and Pudsey ( Rachel Reeves ) — my good friend and fellow Yorkshire MP , and our first female Chancellor — warn that we have to get the nation ' s finance in good order and it have to be our first priority , people get it . politic as public service rely , above all , on trust and honesty . only if we be straight with people about the challenge we face as a country , and we have honest conversation with our constituent about what we can and sometimes can not do — or can not do straightaway — will they start to have faith in politic as a force for good in their life . we have in our hand today a tremendous opportunity to begin the transformation of this country into a country that be look on once again with respect around the world , ready to step up and play our part , whether on tackle climate change , defend democracy when it be under threat , or do everything we can to end the appalling and devastating conflict in the middle east , Ukraine and elsewhere — in short , a country of which we can all be proud . there be a lot of work to do , but the time start now . I call Si â n Berry to make her maiden speech , thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker , for call I . I congratulate the hon . member for Moray West , Nairn and Strathspey ( Graham Leadbitter ) , for Bolton North East ( Kirith Entwistle ) , for Wolverhampton West ( Warinder Juss ) and for Southport ( Patrick Hurley ) on make excellent maiden speech today . I be so honoured to be here in this historic Chamber today as part of a brand - new group of Green colleague , who I must now call my honourable friend . we be very pleased today to hear a wide range of new Bills be propose . we welcome some measure . some we will seek to improve and some we will seek to change or add to . listen to people in my constituency during the election , it be hard not to be affect by the strength of public feeling and distress about the climate emergency and the degradation of our natural environment , and by the huge desire to defend social justice and public service . this Parliament must seek to deliver for they . this be my maiden speech ; I stand here thank to the vote and value of the fantastic people of Brighton Pavilion . they have put their trust in I and the Green party , and for that I extend my heartfelt thank and appreciation . Brighton have always be a truly special place , from its origin as a fishing village and roman villa complex , to its regency and railway boom , with its huge sense of spirit and a warm welcome to every visitor to our famous beach . but Brighton have always be so much more than a seaside resort . the richness and variety of our culture and entertainment be legendary . from victorian innovation , through the 1960 of my parent and my own decade of youth in the far away 1990 , to the present day , our music , theatre , comedy and literary tradition have always blend with cutting - edge , creative and exciting counter - culture movement to reflect and enrich the modern world . our cultural richness have survive , strive , struggle and then thrive through many turbulent time , not least the recent pandemic , and I be confident it will continue to do so for many century to come . I be proud that the late census confirm that nowadays my city be home to one of the UK ' s large population of LGBT + people , and that we host the big and good Pride celebration , include Europe ' s large Trans Pride , which will be this weekend . Brighton and Hove be a welcoming city in so many way , and I be very proud we be a city of sanctuary , commit to a culture of hospitality and welcome for those seek refuge from war and persecution . Brighton Pavilion have a history of dedicated , long - serve mp . from its first election as a single - member constituency in 1950 , it be represent until 1969 by Sir William Burke Teeling , an irish writer and self - describe " amateur tramp " , who walk from London to Newcastle to explore how council be tackle unemployment . our MP be then Julian Amery for 23 year and Derek Spencer for five year , before David Lepper serve in this House as a highly - respected and hardworke MP for 13 year . and , of course , I have one of the easy and most pleasurable job among new mps in pay tribute to my immediate predecessor . Brighton be also a special place because it have be at the heart of the green movement in England and Wales , and that continue when our own , belove Caroline Lucas win the seat for the Green party in 2010 . Caroline hold the seat through three further election , leave a 14 - year legacy that I look up to as a shine mountain to climb , as I take my very first step here today . as well as be an excellent constituency MP , of the many way in which Caroline influence policy , I be most charm by her success in work with the nature writer Mary Colwell to win a new GCSE in natural history . help to inspire and train up a generation of new David Attenboroughs be a real national service . Most impressive have be Caroline ' s steadfast and long - stand opposition to threat to the public ' s right to protest . Caroline live that principle and through it play a key role in end fracke in the UK . I know that all of we sit here today be humbly aim to live up to the high standard , value and work ethic that she represent , and to serve here with the same energy and enthusiasm . it be those principle that will guide my work as an MP , as well as some of my own value and enthusiasm . People who know my work in other place will be aware that listen to and support young people be something I feel very strongly about . it be therefore with huge pleasure that I commend to the House the incredible work of Brighton and Hove Citizens , which have just win a huge campaigning victory with a beautiful example of raise up and empower young people and their voice to make change happen . with school across Brighton and Hove work with college , religious group , worker , university and the charity sector , Brighton and Hove Citizens have this year win a big new commitment from the council . after a long and engaging campaign , sixth former Fi Abou - Chanad and Tally Wilcox present a 2 , 000 signature - strong petition and win a pledge for hundred of young people in Brighton school to benefit from investment in mental health support and counselling . that be just one group of young people among many inspire organisation across our country that I can not wait to hear more about in this job . they include Green New Deal rise , the UK Youth Climate Coalition , YoungMinds , People & Planet , the National Society of Apprentices , the National Union of Students and many more . young people should have a loud voice wherever decision be be make , not just when they organise . I be therefore disappointed to see no specific Bill in today ' s list remove barrier to vote for young people , include voter ID and age limit for election to this House and English local council that do not apply in Wales and Scotland . our 16 and 17 - year - old , and our young people , need a real voice and need those measure in this Parliament . I hope that , when we debate the Bills put forward in today ' s King ' s Speech , the voice of young people be seek out and listen to , and that many change and addition be make where they be need most , include remove the two - child benefit cap . I be grateful for the patience of hon . member in listen to I . I greatly look forward to see the impact of the young voice I plan to raise up in this Chamber be grant the same attention and respect . I call Mr Luke Charters to make his maiden speech . thank you for give I the opportunity to speak , Mr Deputy Speaker . I pay tribute to the many hon . member who have give their wonderful maiden speech today . it be an immense privilege to represent York Outer . I would not be here be it not for the wonderful education I receive at Huntington school . that education give I the confidence and skill to go on and change life , but there be one stand - out teacher — Robin Parmiter , my wise and compassionate religious study teacher . I go on to name my son Robin after he , so my son be a continual reminder of the power of a good state education . he be also a constant reminder that , despite humanity ' s vast medical and technological progress , we still do not have a cure for toddler teethe . move on from religious study to history , I want to go all the way back to 71 ad , when the Romans be believe to have make York a military base . I appreciate a lot have change over the many millennia since , but York ' s role as a military base have not . the Queen Elizabeth barracks be at Strensall , in my constituency , and I be very proud to be the first Labour Member of Parliament to represent there . I be incredibly proud of this Government ' s unwavere commitment to our armed force and to our veteran community . it be important to note that my predecessor , Julian Sturdy , play an important role in protect and save those barrack . he be also a forceful advocate for our rural community ; I want to continue that work . I wish he all the very good for the future , after 14 year of service . as many hon . member will know , people from Yorkshire be straight - talk and no - nonsense . I have be tell many time on the campaign trail , and since join the House , that unfortunately I live up to that stereotype . but I be not on my own . I have a great cohort of colleague on the Labour Benches who be represent God ' s own county . even well , we have a Chancellor from the white rose contingent , so the good thing be we have the Yorkshire value of frugality as a national policy , ensure the public get good value for money . how welcome that be after 14 long year of manage decline , as our country find itself at a critical juncture . thankfully , the question be no long who get to rebuild Britain , but how we will take the mantle on . we can all learn from colleague in the York community . just 40 year ago , on 9 July 1984 , lightning strike the roof of York Minster and the south transept be destroy by flame . I be proud that my dad , an outspoken Yorkshireman if ever there be one , be one of the apprentice joiner who go on to rebuild the Minster after the great fire . the Minster joiner ' commitment centre around the value I share : dedication to duty , service and desperation to rebuild . but there be already group in York Outer embody those value . take BioYorkshire and its 10 - year plan for sustainable innovation , which harness the green revolution that we so badly need for the year ahead . we be home to many wonderful small and medium - sized enterprise from Wigginton to Wheldrake that share our ambition for wealth creation . we be a Government who be both pro - business and pro - worker . it be also fair to say that our hero on the frontline of the NHS be a perfect embodiment of the Minster joiner ' core value , as be the late Frank Dobson , who be bear in the village of Dunnington in my constituency . my family have have close encounter with our health service in York , and I come to this place with enormous gratitude to those who serve in it . I pay true thank to they , but word can not truly get there . I will be a powerful advocate for they in this place . these vital public service be at the heart of our community . we value they so dearly , as do our constituent , as they form the social fabric that allow we all to live rich , happy and content life . but it be such a shame that so many of these crucial service be evaporate . I remember set up my first bank account in the village of Haxby , but that bank branch no long exist . that be not an isolated case ; there be no long any bank branch in my constituency . as be so often the case in this country , it be vulnerable people who go on to pay the price . the closure of these branch pose a risk to our vibrant community , which be exactly why I be so proud that this Government be go to bring forward 350 new bank hub to maintain valuable access to cash . a priority of mine be to campaign to bring one of those hub to York Outer . after a short departure from the early history lesson , I shall now return to it and skip to 1086 and the Domesday Book . the village of Copmanthorpe in my constituency earn an explicit mention in the text . its historical translation mean " trader " village . unfortunately , the good enterprise nature of the people of Copmanthorpe , York and North Yorkshire have be take advantage of over recent year by fraudster . after spend year combat fraud at the Bank of England , the Financial Conduct Authority , and in the private sector , this be an issue that be close to my heart . one of the big investigation undertake by North Yorkshire police , conclude in April , find that scammer have target £ 30 million of victim ' pension and life saving , leave many with nothing . it be also report in May that a devastating cryptocurrency scam take an average of £ 7 , 000 each from dozen of family . as many member may have note , these victim can not be name , but I dedicate my maiden speech to they . each one of those people affect by fraud be a loved one , a family member or a friend . Fraud be the big crime in the UK , and , under this Labour Government , I want to ensure that there be no safe harbour for fraudster , no compromise in our pursuit of their scheme and no escape from justice . on a more positive note , I have be fortunate enough to meet thousand of constituent who share the wonderful community spirit of York Outer . to the good people of York , from New Earswick bowl club to the Island , and from St Leonard ' s hospice , which lovingly care for my uncle in his last day , to the Wilberforce Trust , which have support people with visual and hear impairment for nearly two century , give back be second nature . as the new Member of Parliament for York Outer , I will be tirelessly dedicate to my constituent . I shall be a strong national campaigner when it come to improve financial service and tackle fraud . I be ready and willing to serve the area that have give I so much . finally , Mr Deputy Speaker , may I be slightly unconventional and end by thank the House staff ? they have welcome hon . member to this place . their dedication and service be clear and I look forward to work with they in the year ahead . I call Seamus Logan to make his maiden speech . thank you for call I to speak , Mr Deputy Speaker . I be grateful for the opportunity to make my maiden speech during this important debate . like other , I wish to congratulate all those who have speak before I , particularly those who make their maiden speech , not least the hon . member for York Outer ( Mr Charters ) whose contribution be very substantial . I be originally from the village of Dunloy in the north - east of Ireland . I represent the Aberdeenshire North and Moray East constituency in the north - east of Scotland . I pay close attention when the right hon . member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) be advise new member on our ambition for the future , particularly because I want to share my ambition . I be the first MP for Aberdeenshire North and Moray East and I hope to be the last MP for Aberdeenshire North and Moray East . this be a coastal area that stretch from the River Spey in the west to Cruden Bay in the south . it be an area note not only for its industry , but for the industriousness of its people and its community . its long - stand economic strength be in farming , fishing and their associated sector , include food and drink production , and , in more recent time , in the oil and gas industry and their supply chain . the area make a substantial and significant contribution to the nation ' s energy security and food security . we be now undergo a new industrial revolution associate with the renewable sector . as the world adapt to new challenge , I believe that it be our duty in this Parliament to capitalise on the opportunity that now present themselves in the north - east of Scotland . it be also a most beautiful area — something of an undiscovered gem — with a develop tourism industry . member will remember that the next time they enjoy a single malt , an Aberdeen Angus steak , a prawn cocktail or perhaps a fish supper , because the chance be that they come from the industry base in my constituency . there be also significant poverty — in particular child poverty — in this otherwise prosperous area . although this be mainly concentrate in large town , it be also a challenge in village and rural area where it be often less visible . recent figure suggest that around 5 , 500 child in this constituency be live in serious poverty — some of they in absolute poverty . to be clear that mean that they do not have enough money to meet basic need for shelter , clothing and food . that be something that we should all remember in our position of privilege , and it be something that we should all work together on to change . I want to pay tribute to the outgoing MP , David Duguid , who represent the previous Banff and Buchan constituency , which disappear in the recent boundary change . some member will know that David experience sudden and significant ill - health before the general election be call . I wish he a speedy and full recovery . David be an excellent mp who do his good to represent everybody in the constituency , but most notably the interest of the energy , fishing and farming industry . his effort be in stark contrast to the way that he be treat in the end when he be effectively deselecte by his colleague . I wish David and his family well in whatever their future plan may involve . I also wish to acknowledge the work of the last SNP MP in this area , Eilidh Whiteford , who be an outstanding political representative . today in the King ' s Speech , the Government have an opportunity to immediately abolish the harmful two - child benefit cap and the notorious rape clause , which my former colleague , the outgoing MP for Glasgow Central , Alison Thewliss , work so hard to end . the failure to do this be an early indictment of the Government ' s policy position . I be encourage when I hear contribution from the hon . member for Hackney South and Shoreditch ( Dame Meg Hillier ) and the right hon . member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) . but what about the contribution from the right hon . member for Islington North ( Jeremy Corbyn ) when he say , " no ifs , no but , just do it . " ? it be simply not good enough for the people of Scotland , an energy rich nation , to pay so much to heat their home while so many of their bairn be live in absolute poverty . I will be focus on this issue over the course of this Parliament . I will seek to defend the interest of our farming and fishing industry , to protect our public service and to help realise the potential of renewable energy and carbon capture to deliver job and economic growth . but , above all , I shall be a voice for the weak and the disadvantaged . after 14 year of austerity , we need a change of direction , not more of the same . I wish to make special mention of the WASPI woman who have be so unfairly treat by successive government , and who deserve compensation . to conclude , I thank the people of my constituency for their support at the ballot box , my colleague in the SNP and in other party , and the various member of House staff on the Westminster estate , who have be so welcoming and helpful on my arrival and during my induction . finally — and member would not expect I to say anything less — I will be work hard in this place and elsewhere to press the case for the people of Scotland to be afford their democratic right to determine their own future . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Aberdeenshire North and Moray East ( Seamus Logan ) , after his eloquent and passionate maiden speech . a huge welcome to all new member ; it be the great privilege in the world to be here and to be the voice of the place that you love — never take that for grant . we on the Labour Benches be under no illusion as to the scale of task ahead of we in government . fourteen year of successive conservative government have ravage our public service , stifle investment , create gross level of inequality , and entrench widespread job and housing insecurity , so the Gracious Speech offer welcome national renewal . legislation promise to hand power back to local leader , support for local growth plan , and great protection for renter be welcome and long overdue . the new deal for work people be also a pivotal step in ensure that the fruit of our economic growth be share by everyone , not just a select few . on child poverty , the Government have pledge to roll out breakfast club and to develop a strategy to reduce child poverty , which be very welcome , but such extensive plan will take some considerable time to pass through into legislation . in the meantime , there be immediate measure that the Government must take now to alleviate the financial strain face by so many in my constituency . indeed , on the issue of child poverty alone , we be in a state of what can only be describe as national crisis . research by Loughborough University on behalf of the end Child Poverty coalition report that a staggering 333 , 000 child in Greater Manchester and Lancashire alone be now live in poverty . that be an increase of over 31 , 000 compare with the previous year . the hope that these family place on the new Labour Government be immense , so my first urgent request of our new Labour Government be to lift these child out of poverty immediately by scrap the two - child limit in universal credit . my second urgent request of the Government be to settle the debt of honour we owe to woman bear in the 1950 who suffer pension injustice . the issue now be not whether the woman face injustice ; the ombudsman ' s report early this year make it clear that they do , that the Department for Work and Pensions be guilty of maladministration , that the woman be entitle to urgent compensation from the Government , and that Parliament must urgently identify a mechanism for provide that appropriate remedy . they need fair , fast , simple redress and an apology from the DWP . there be no excuse for delay . the report be lay before Parliament in March , and at least one woman will die wait for justice every 13 minute . they deserve nothing less than justice , so I hope that the Government urgently identify a mechanism for appropriate remedy now . I would not normally intervene have just enter the House , but know that my friend , the hon . member for Salford ( Rebecca Long Bailey ) , be speak , I feel I ought to come and hear she , and particularly to support the remark she have just make about those woman so badly affect in the way that she have describe . it be critical , as she say , that this matter be address speedily — and , actually , that mean simplify the system . that will not please everyone , by the way ; some people want a detailed analysis , but that be unfortunately likely to lead to obfuscation . it be very important , as she describe , to have a simple mechanism which deliver justice to these woman speedily . I agree wholeheartedly . the work that the right hon . Member and I carry out throughout the last Parliament be an example of how we can work co - operatively with member of opposite party and find those issue on which we can serve our constituent well . he join we at an opportune moment , as I be about to talk about an issue that be close to his heart . my final urgent request of the Government be one of moral duty : to recognise , support and compensate our nuclear testing veteran and their family . these be the man who put their life at risk in dangerous atomic weapon test to ensure our long - term security . for decade , campaigner , Labrats , veteran and their family , and the indefatigable Susie Boniface have be fight for recognition for these hero . they have highlight scientific study that show increase rate of miscarriage , increase birth defect , and the same rate of genetic damage as clean - up worker at Chernobyl . of course , the campaigner take pride in the fact that the Defence Secretary and the Prime Minister meet they when Labour be in opposition , and support their campaign to receive the long overdue recognition they deserve . but despite win the campaign for medallic recognition , the UK sadly still remain the only nuclear power that refuse they adequate compensation , research and support , unlike the US , France , Canada and Australia . medal criterion be very limited , there have not be a formal recognition event and even access to war pension have be impede . veteran , and sometimes their wife , widow and descendant , have report make repeat request to gain access to their blood or urine testing record from sample the veteran recall be take during the nuclear testing programme . sadly , many confirm that their service medical record frequently do not include the test result , and they just do not understand why . the data be vital for their war pension application and for understand the condition they suffer , but sadly the absence of such record mean that many veteran ’ war pension application be refuse . I want to place on record my thank to hon . member right across the House who have continue to support these veteran , particularly the right hon . member for South Holland and the Deepings ( Sir John Hayes ) , who have work closely with I and campaigner in recent year . this week , we have both write to the Defence Secretary and the Minister for Veterans and People , my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Selly Oak ( Al Carns ) , request that they urgently meet we , veteran and campaigner , and work with we to deal with their concern . we hope that be make an urgent priority , because ultimately the Government can and should deliver justice for these family , and now be the right time to do so . last and not least from the Opposition Benches , I call Jim Shannon . Mr Deputy Speaker , I thank you for call I and all hon . member who have make contribution so far ; I be glad to see you in your place and I be glad to be in mine . I thank the good people of Strangford for vote for I in the election , and I wish all member in this House God ' s rich blessing for this term and the year ahead . I be very pleased to see the Labour party and the Prime Minister in their place . I believe that all of we across the House and out in the nation we represent wish for thing to go well — there be good will and a wish to see thing in a well way . I be delighted to hear in the King ' s Speech the Prime Minister ' s goal of take the brake off Britain , which be a goal that every party can get behind . yet the Unionist in I would gently remind the Prime Minister and the Labour party that that responsibility apply equally to the whole United Kingdom , not simply to mainland Britain . we need to remove the brake , wherever they may be , within the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland . one brake that spring to mind at this moment be that mention by my right hon . friend the Member for Belfast East ( Gavin Robinson ) : the one hold back Harland & Wolff from provide job and financial stability by not fulfil the contract promise by the last government . security on the loan be critical to prevent the removal of economic growth , and I do hope that brake will be release urgently . I also welcome the indication that the creation of wealth be to be a Labour party priority , as that be foundational for any nation . I look forward to work with the Labour Government to ensure that it be spread across the whole United Kingdom , of which Northern Ireland be an integral part . there be work to be do when it come to Northern Ireland ' s place in the Union . in response to my intervention on the Prime Minister today , he quite clearly commit to ensure that Northern Ireland ' s position within the United Kingdom be strengthen . if that be the case , it be good news , but I look forward to see those word become action . my colleague and I be anxious to continue the work of ensure that our constituent have the same treatment as the rest of the UK , from shop to post , to import and border control . I look forward to meet our new Secretary of State for Northern Ireland , who be in a position to establish that work relationship to the benefit of all within the United Kingdom . there be work to be do on the remnant of the protocol , and I know that must be a priority for this new Government . there be also work to be do on establish an adequate formula for funding , which both my right hon . friend the Members for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) and for Belfast East refer to . when I be a member of the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee , along with other colleague , all party on the Committee and the Government official be clear that the funding formula be wrong and have to be address . we be £ 500 million to £ 600 million shy of what other part of the United Kingdom be get , and there be a commitment give to ensure that that would come through . my request to the Labour Government , and in particular to the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland , will be to ensure that that £ 600 million gaping hole in Northern Ireland ' s finance be address . with great respect , I say this : we do not need a vanity project of Casement Park , at a cost of more than £ 300 million , when the very basic of life be be neglect . I be pleased to hear the aim of improve mental health service , which other member have refer to , particularly for our young people . in Northern Ireland we have the large prevalence of mental health problem in the whole of the United Kingdom . my request to the Labour Government and to my Prime Minister , as he be , be to ensure that his mental health programme can work in conjunction with the Northern Ireland Assembly so that we can address mental health issue for our young people head - on . again , there be a way of do that , if we do it here at Westminster and ensure that the Northern Ireland Assembly be work alongside we in that partnership . I be very keen to ensure that happen . I also put in a plea for peace in the middle east to be an aim of the Government . I would gently highlight that call for a ceasefire when hostage remain in unimaginably cruel captivity , and without ensure that Hamas terrorist can never inflict that kind of savage damage again , must surely be premature . there be a solution , and it can be find ; I know that be the desire of all our constituent , as well as our friend in Israel and on both side of the Gaza strip . I believe that the Government must consider maintain the previous Government ' s procedural challenge to the International Criminal Court ' s jurisdiction in Israel and in the Palestinian Territories . it be important that the ICC retain its proper role within the law and exercise jurisdiction base on its own statute and in accordance with the principle of complementarity . as long as I have be in Parliament , there have always be a plea from both side of the Chamber for the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps to be condemn and make illegal . those plea come from the Opposition side when the Labour party be in opposition . now that labour be in government , I hope those plea will be answer . the irgc be the world ' s most powerful terrorist group , commit to the conversion or murder of Jews , Christians , Zoroastrians and other it consider to be infidel , and for 40 year it have pursue its repugnant goal through violence on a global scale . it be time for it to be proscribe , and I ask for that to happen as soon as humanly possible . I be afraid I do not have time to go through all the thing I want to speak to , but I will quickly mention the issue of conversion practice . I just say this gently . I think the Minister responsible have get it . there will be a consultation beforehand — there have to be — and there be many of we who have christian faith and belief , and who wish to ensure that the belief to which we hold fast be consider fully when it come to make any decision . I also make a plea , as have the hon . member for Salford ( Rebecca Long Bailey ) and other , for the WASPI woman . as you probably know , Mr Deputy Speaker , I lead a debate on the issue , and I believe the Government need to deliver for the WASPI woman . I have some 5 , 500 of they in my constituency , and there be 76 , 000 in Northern Ireland . we have an obligation to everyone across this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland to deliver . this be a new Government , with new way of do thing and new aim , but there be also new opportunity . I , for one , will do all I can , work alongside the Government , to achieve the aim of make this wonderful United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland a wonderful place to live , educate our child , work and thrive . I believe that all of we in this House can work together to see that goal realise and people ' s life make well as a result . after nine year on the Opposition Benches , it be a disorientating experience to find myself on the Government Benches , and thing just get a little more topsy - turvy when I find I be speak after the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) . I do not think that have ever happen before , but it give I an opportunity to thank he for his friendship and to let new member know that in this House they will find friend in perhaps the most unlikely place . I thank my hon . friend for his friendship and support , and I know in that I speak for many on the Government side . this be my first opportunity to give a substantive speech as the new Member for Lancaster and Wyre , as my constituency undergo some significant boundary change at this election . I will break with convention slightly by pay tribute to the MP I have replace , in the sense that most of my constituency be represent in the previous Parliament by Ben Wallace . he have serve as an MP in Lancashire since the 2005 general election , first for Lancaster and Wyre and latterly for Wyre and Preston North . Ben be the MP elect in the first general election I vote in , in Lancaster and Wyre . I confess that I do not vote for the win candidate , but his assiduous service should be note , especially his service to the country in his role as Secretary of State for Defence . this be also an opportunity to acknowledge the change to our electoral map at the general election . the country vote very clearly for change . I be excited to see much of the content in the King ' s Speech , particularly when it come to get Britain build through planning reform . I be pleased to hear talk about both infrastructure and housing ; it be clear to I that when we build housing it have to go with infrastructure . I hear loud and clear from my constituent along the A6 corridor , particularly around the Garstang area , that build new house without infrastructure put more pressure on our public service , GP surgery and school place . I be also pleased to see in the King ' s Speech that local leader will be allow to take control of local bus service . this week , Stagecoach , which run the bus service in my community , have increase the price of the under - 19 DayRider , which have be meet with quite a lot of response , shall we say , from my constituent — not only those attend school and college , but their parent , who be often the one pick up the tab for what be a very expensive and often unreliable service . as a north - west MP , I be serve on the west coast main line by a train company call Avanti , so believe I , Mr Deputy Speaker , bring rail back into public ownership be something my constituent welcome . I hear loud and clear on the campaign trail that Avanti be not a fit company to be run a so - call train service down the west coast of our country , right the way from Glasgow into London Euston . it let passenger down on a regular basis and I think it know its time be up . some of my young constituent be run campaign at the moment on sewage dumping . we know that Ofwat need to have more tooth and more power to regulate the water company . I know that some of my young constituent will be very pleased to see that part of the King ' s Speech . I turn now to the point about strengthen the integrity of election to encourage wide participation in the democratic process . in the last Parliament I have the privilege of be the spokesperson for the Speaker ' s Committee on the Electoral Commission , so you will forgive I , Mr Deputy Speaker , if this turn into something of a hobby - horse of mine . I be deeply concerned about the state of our democracy and look forward to play a full role from the Back Benches , support the Government in improve the integrity of our electoral process . we can not lose sight of the fact that 52 % turnout nationally at a general election should concern every one of we . in Lancaster and Wyre it be 58 % , but I take no comfort from the fact that we be marginally high than the national average . that be what keep I up at night . we need to engage people in our democracy , because the alternative be unthinkable . I support the idea of automatic voter registration . as my hon . friend be aware , the Levelling up , Housing and Communities Committee publish a report in the last Parliament propose exactly that . we go to look at the system in Canada , which get near to 97 % or 98 % registration accuracy . some 8 million people could not vote in our election because they be not on the electoral register . we need to address that . I pay tribute to my hon . friend for the work of his Committee in the last Parliament , and I urge the Government Front Benchers to heed that report . million of people be miss from our electoral roll . if member be concerned about the 52 % turnout at the general election , they will be even more concerned to note that that figure be probably much low because our electoral roll lack accuracy . however , that be not all . we need to look again at the ID requirement . during the general election , we all come across people who think that they could not vote because they do not have ID and be not aware of the voter authority certificate . a conversation that I have in Skerton in my constituency stand out to I . a gentleman who have vote in every general election since the 1970 say : " I don ' t have ID , so I can ' t vote now . " he have be totally unaware that the voter authority certificate be an option , and it be far too late to apply for one a few day from polling day . that be replicate up and down the country . if we be concern about and want to increase turnout at election , we need to fix that . personally , I think that that mean scrap the entire scheme , which be always a solution to a problem that do not exist , but add more form of ID , or include polling card , would make it so much easy for people to take part in our democracy . I have hear a lot from constituent who have look at the result of the general election and raise question about proportional representation . in the last Parliament , the Government change the voting system for elect police and crime commissioner from the alternative vote to first past the post , and they do so in a statutory instrument Committee . I do not think that be an appropriate way to go about change our voting system . the public should be involve in that conversation . the general election result have lead to a lot of conversation in Lancashire with people who feel that the first - past - the - post system be regressive and that we can find more progressive way of improve our voting system . the Electoral Commission ' s strategy and policy statement make the electorate question the commission ' s independence . if we want to build trust and faith in our democracy , the public need to believe that the commission be independent and empower to hold political party and candidate to account for our conduct in these thing , and that it can take on new challenge , include the intimidation of candidate , which have already be mention . I associate myself with the comment of my hon . friend the Member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) , who be no long in her place . finally , if I may , I will squeeze in an ask of the Government on sodium valproate . there be many victim of that scandal , and they be wait for a compensation scheme . that should have happen under the last government , but the chaos that we have have for the past 14 year mean that it do not . I hope that those who have campaign long and hard over many year for justice follow that scandal will get it under the Labour Government . I recognise that the Government have hit the ground run . the King ' s Speech be full of legislation that I look forward to support to bring about the change that the country vote for . in respond to the Gracious Speech , I will focus on just a couple of issue . I welcome all new hon . member to the House . it can be a lonely place at time , but there be always someone on hand to help , so please reach out , and remember : it be a marathon , not a sprint . since I be elect in 2019 , I have call for far - reach measure to address the housing crisis and the worsen homelessness emergency . it will reassure the community that I represent that they now have a Government who understand the scale of that endemic problem and , crucially , be willing to take action to remedy it . I wholeheartedly applaud the commitment to planning reform that will get Britain build again — build the home that we need now , and on which future generation will rely to get on in life . it be right for any serious Government to be ambitious in that regard . I welcome the Chancellor ' s commitment in her first speech to set up a taskforce to tackle stall housing scheme across the country , begin with a focus on Liverpool central dock . that be a positive sign of thing to come . solve the housing crisis demand that we be bold . over 14 , 000 people be on the housing waiting list in Liverpool , so it be imperative that we push the agenda for social and council housing . home for social rent must be front and centre of our plan to give every household — every family — the dignity of a home that they can call their own . that would provide a long - term vision to address the burgeon number of household languish in temporary accommodation , which at the last count shamefully include over 145 , 000 child . I ask the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government to work with our council to well regulate the proliferation of house in multiple occupation in concentrated area across our city and town , particularly in the north of England , where it be common - place for whole community to be disrupt . in my own constituency of Liverpool Wavertree , some street have over 50 % of house as HMOs . with that come environmental issue , such as rubbish and noise , and it have rip the heart out of community while landlord — the majority not from the city — make massive profit . year after year during the last Parliament , we hear repeat promise from the previous Government to bring in their Renters ( Reform ) Bill . however , the last Conservative Administration shamelessly cave in to the landlord lobby on their own Benches , so it fall to this Labour Government to make it happen . the private rented sector have lose all sense of proportion . section 21 eviction must be end : they pile great pressure on local council , and I know through my office ' s casework that no - fault eviction be worsen the homelessness emergency . I will be urge my colleague on the Front Bench to make our renter reform Bill as comprehensive a package as possible for a beleaguered generation of renter who have live the consequence of the cost of live crisis as much as any . the report lead by Councillor Cowan , the leader of Hammersmith and Fulham council , should provide the basis of our plan : a national landlord register to enforce standard , rent stabilisation measure , and a holistic approach that prevent landlord from move to short - term holiday let or make a mint from the provision of temporary accommodation . all this will not be easy . the Prime Minister have long talk of smash the class ceiling , and I very much look forward to support he and the Deputy Prime Minister in ensure that we deliver the bold measure that be require to address the housing and homelessness crisis , and so much more . as someone who be privileged to be a trade union official before enter this place , and who be still a very proud trade union member — I refer to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests — I be delighted with our plan for worker ’ right and a new deal for work people that be long overdue . as a proud Liverpool MP , I also want to say how delighted I be that a Labour Government will deliver the long - await Hillsborough law . I pay tribute to the resilience of the family who lose love one , the survivor and my city as a whole ; they have never give up their fight for truth , justice and accountability . of course , I also pay tribute to my neighbour and right hon . friend the Member for Liverpool Garston ( Maria Eagle ) , who have spend decade in this place fight to get that law on to the statute book . that show what tenacity can deliver . we have hear much this evening about cross - party work , and it would be remiss of I not to also place on record my thank to the former right hon . member for Maidenhead , who will go to the other place , Theresa May . she be pivotal in the Hillsborough inquiry as well , and for that I place my thank on record . like so many Scousers , I have family and friend at Hillsborough on that fateful day in April 1989 ; fortunately , they all come home , but 97 innocent man , woman and child do not . this law be a valuable step in obtain justice for the 97 . I associate myself with the comment that my hon . friend the Member for Liverpool Wavertree ( Paula Barker ) have just make about Hillsborough . I be pleased to see this incredibly important legislation be bring forward by this government , after a long journey for justice . I congratulate everyone who make their maiden speech today — those speech have be absolutely fantastic , and show the calibre of the people who have be elect to this place . I also welcome back my fellow return mp , some with a large break than other ; it be great to see those people back in this place , with all their depth of experience . we stand at a pivotal moment . I could talk in great depth about all the wonderful Bills that be in this King ' s Speech , from the new deal for work people to the english devolution Bill , the education Bill , the child ' s wellbee Bill , right for renter and the updating of the Mental Health Act 1983 , which be desperately need . but the climate and nature crisis be already impact our life , so I will focus my remark mainly on that , and slightly on transport . particularly in the global south , but increasingly in the UK , we be live through the consequence of climate catastrophe , and it be the poor in society who be often suffer the bad of its effect . the new agenda for this Government be a key opportunity to get back on track and prove , as we do once previously with the Climate Change Act 2008 , that the UK can be a true climate leader . the measure outline in the King ' s Speech underscore the Government ' s commitment to tackle the climate emergency . they be not only word , but the green shoot of change , end 14 year of Conservative - lead indifference and even hostility to environmental policy — 14 year that see an effective ban on onshore wind , a standstill on solar and little to nothing on tidal or green hydrogen . while other country around the world have be race ahead to capitalise on the job and wealth that the clean energy transition offer , Britain have be miss out , but today mark a new chapter . the Government ' s plan to make Britain a green energy superpower , achieve clean power by 2030 , be ambitious and represent a clear commitment to reduce carbon emission and embrace renewable energy source . it present a significant opportunity to stimulate economic growth , address the cost of live crisis and make Britain energy independent , with great British Energy , own by the british people , ensure that family and business benefit from permanently low bill through a zero - carbon energy system . it be right that that will be fund by close loophole in the windfall tax on oil and gas company . they have reap enormous profit not because of their innovation or investment , but because of the energy shock that have burden family across the country with high price . the great british Energy Bill will end the conservative dash for oil and gas , deliver real energy security and put the UK on a path to be a clean energy superpower , with a just transition for worker . however , we also need to look beyond our energy system . after 30 year of privatisation , Britain ' s railway be in crisis , with passenger face late , overcrowded and cancel service , push many commuter on to our road instead . for many community , the bus be no well . in Sheffield Hallam , this be one of the issue raise with I in almost all the canvass session I do . there be often reduction in bus service . they be cancel because the bus fleet be not fit for purpose , or the route be close and there be no alternative . it could not get any bad , really , and that be why the Government ' s passenger railway service Bill and well bus Bill be vital . I will be pleased to champion they from the Back Benches . the plan to take train operating company back into public ownership will end a decade of conservative chaos , develop the infrastructure we need to green our society and make the transition to net zero , and give people a real alternative to get into their car . new power to allow community to take back control of their bus will put decision make back into their hand , where it belong — not with the private company , but with the people the transport system should be serve . green our transport and energy infrastructure be central to meet our climate ambition , but we can not effectively combat the climate crisis without simultaneously protect our vital ecosystem , restore habitat and safeguard our specie . the climate crisis have accelerate the nature crisis , with the UK now one of the most nature - deplete country in the world . we must and can do well . protect nature must take equal priority to cut emission . for too long , Britain ' s coast , river and lake have be pollute by illegal sewage dumping , and it be therefore right that this Government be commit to place fail water company under special measure , withholding bonus from executive who pollute our waterway and bring criminal charge against persistent lawbreaker . I be very pleased to see that there will be strengthen regulation , which be very welcome to many in my constituency who have campaign on this issue . I also look forward to see plan to empower local government and community through the english devolution Bill , especially on how they can play their part in tackle both the climate and nature emergency , and what local government need to fully tap into the potential of the green economy and green job for our region . tackle the climate and nature emergency be not an issue for the future ; we be already face the effect in the here and now . our role be to act immediately to prevent the most damaging effect , and I welcome the measure set out in this King ' s Speech . they must be the springboard for a wide debate on green our community , revitalise our ecology and build a greener , clean and nature - positive economy that work for everyone . I have one final plea to my Front Benchers on an unrelated topic , which be care for people who have undergo miscarriage . I campaign very hard on that in the last Parliament , and I will continue to raise it in this place to make sure that there be proper provision for woman ' s health and that everyone get the support they need . I call Chris McDonald to make his maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . speak as a new Member , I would like to add my congratulation to those hon . member who have make their first speech today on the confidence and clarity with which they be deliver . they really have set a worryingly high standard . the Gracious Speech contain many fine Bills , but for I it be much more about a new way of governing : a Government of service , of change and of action . I know that this will be warmly welcome by my constituent in Stockton North . the reason for that could be see quite clearly Saturday last , when I be in Durham play my cornet at the Durham miner ' gala . the village banner of the gala display the pride and hope of the community . behind I be an image of the great miner ' leader , Peter Lee , and emblazon on the banner be the slogan : " the past we inherit , the future we build . " this belief in a positive future , one that we can determine ourselves , have instill in I the tenacity and determination to stand here . it be also characteristic of the people I represent in Stockton North . Stockton North be an industrial place , and the people be industrious people . Stockton be home to the world ' s first passenger railway , open in 1825 with one of Britain ' s most famous engineer , George Stephenson , drive the engine . the line that he build be now use by the nearby Hitachi Rail factory to transport new locomotive on to the national network . Stockton thrive on industry such as steel and shipbuilding , and whenever I hear the chime of Big Ben ring out across Westminster , I be remind that the first bell for the Elizabeth Tower be cast in Stockton North , in Norton . John Walker , a pioneer of chemical engineering , invent the friction match on Stockton ' s famous high street in 1827 . however , it be in the 20th century , with the dawn of the chemical industry , that the neighbour town of Billingham begin to boom with the manufacture of ammonia for explosive and fertiliser . this industrial progress continue , with Billingham and Stockton home to catalyst technology and life science , with new investment plan in sustainable aviation fuel — which also feature in the Gracious Speech — and small modular reactor , carbon capture and hydrogen project . during the covid pandemic , vaccine be develop in Oxford but manufacture in Billingham . from Wynyard to Port Clarence , we have the skill and expertise to deliver this Government ' s industrial strategy and attract the private sector investment that our new national wealth fund demand . we know that Britain be great at industry , which keep we safe , generate fair economic growth and create new opportunity for our young people . that be sorely need in Stockton North , where a third of our child live in poverty . we will seize this chance to help the people who need it most . it be an honour for I to have the good fortune to succeed Alex Cunningham . Alex be as well regard in Stockton North as he be in this House , and it have be a joy for I in the last week to meet Members here who know Alex and describe his fundamental decency and fairness as a person — value that we would all like to see more of in political life . Alex have give great service over four decade as a local councillor and Member of Parliament . he hold a series of shadow ministerial position , but his personal priority be always to promote opportunity for young people through education and health . these interest be combine in what I know Alex himself see as his great achievement : the extension of restriction on smoking to include private vehicle where child be present , a measure that will undoubtedly save the health of so many young people . I be sure he be delighted to see the smoking measure propose today . in a slight break with tradition , I would also like to acknowledge the former Member for Langbaurgh , the late Ashok Kumar . Ashok and I be both chemical engineer in the steel industry before be elect to Parliament . we work together at British Steel ' s research laboratory in Redcar , which I know be why many of my colleague over the last week have be refer to I as the steel guy . at that time , I be fresh out of school and Ashok be take a rest between general election . I recall that he devote as much of his time at work to political campaigning as he do to steel research . Ashok be a well - love colleague , and I take the opportunity a few year ago to re - establish the Ashok Kumar fellowship , which be a collaboration between the Parliamentary Office of Science and Technology and the Institution of Chemical Engineers to promote understanding between engineer and parliamentarian . I believe that I have the privilege of be the first and only fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering to sit here , and bring together the two world of engineering and politic in the area of industrial strategy be something that I hope to do usefully in my time here . the people of Stockton North recognise the value of service , and we count many service member , veteran and cadet among our number . as a signatory of the armed force covenant , I welcome the measure to establish an armed force commissioner . I personally feel a great responsibility of service as a Member of this House , and my concern be to ensure that this Parliament deliver a noticeable improvement in the life of the people of Stockton North . at the time of my election , I invite my constituent to bear that commitment in mind when they come to judge my performance at the next general election , and I now make that pledge here , again . it be pleasure to follow such an accomplished maiden speech by my hon . friend the Member for Stockton North ( Chris McDonald ) and to have listen to a little bit about the Durham coalfield , which I know well — I be happy to say that I have be to Peterlee numerous time . I think we in this place can all learn from those wonderful word : " the past we inherit , the future we build . " I extend my word of congratulation to my hon . friend to the 300 - plus new member who have be elect to this Chamber . I know it be daunt turn up to this place , but they should spare a thought for some of we who be also overwhelm by the sheer number of new colleague we have . it be wonderful to see so many new face and I look forward to have those individual conversation and get to know many people . finally , a word on good friend from all side of the House who I have have the privilege to work with over recent year and who have sadly lose their seat . they will no long be in this place but I will maintain those friendship beyond this Chamber . I welcome the first Labour King ' s Speech in a long time . in particular , on behalf of my constituent , and have represent the Anfield stadium for the past seven year , I welcome the Hillsborough law to support bereaved family who fight for truth and justice . it will mean so much to so many people . I also welcome the new deal for worker , the repealing of the Tories ' anti - strike legislation and the return to some collective bargaining , which will be a good thing in the social care sector and which I hope to see go far in future year . I welcome bring our railway back into public ownership ; fix our national health service ; new protection for renter , include an end to no - fault eviction ; and the introduction of Awaab ' s law . I welcome investment in clean energy to create the good , unionised job of the future ; bring back community policing ; and devolve great power to community , city and region . after 14 year out of power , I be determined to contribute to the success of a Labour Government in their mission to rebuild and renew our country . I have say for long enough that the only thing that will change the life of the people I represent be a Labour Government . I be delighted to have be return to this place by the people of Liverpool Walton to speak on their behalf . I be grateful for the trust they have place in I . our community be one of the most deprived in the UK . unemployment and child poverty be twice the national average . too much of our housing be poor - quality private rent accommodation . the situation be scandalous and worsen , and rent be still rise fast than wage . those rent must be control . tenant must have great protection . street be blight by the conversion of home into multi - occupancy housing and short - term rental , and landlord can hike up rent on a whim and cast entire family on to the street . labour must make security of housing a reality for all through council housing , social rent and home ownership . across Liverpool Walton , our once vibrant high street have too often turn into row of board - up store front . some of this can be put down to 14 year of Tory failure , but it feel like we have have decade of decline in local community . the reality be that the last 40 year have bequeath great inequality and despair . there be economic problem that this Labour Government can and will put right , but the challenge will stretch well beyond that . the last 40 year have bring social disintegration and , to put it simply , unhappiness . People be live much more isolated , lonely life , with rise mental ill health and great drug and alcohol addiction blight our community . social media be change how we behave and interact . the bad behaviour , selfishness and criminality of some — which too often go unchecked — make the life of other miserable . those be the fundamental issue : a loss of meaning , a loss of relationship , and a loss of love . those be the social ill that can not be fully express in the cold language of economic indicator . they be the product of a rotten social and economic model , which have erode our sense of social solidarity and fling we into an epidemic of loneliness , anger and despair , and it ' s real . we have end up with an economic and political approach that focus almost entirely on the individual , while the family , community , church and trade union be diminish . society be disintegrate , leave only the state and the market . I believe that what be valuable be what we do together in society when people come together . that be the treasure that we need to value and nurture . we must accept that the Government — the state — can not and should not deliver the solution to all of our problem , but it can shape how we live . labour in government should limit the bad excess of market greed . by that , I mean the extortion of the working - class community I represent by corporation and landlord . People know when they be be rip off . labour in government should limit the most damaging element of the 24 - hour global consumer capitalist world that we find ourselves thrust into , with little choice , to give we back what be really important in our life , whether that be time and space for our family , our friend and social pursuit , dignity at work and dignity at home , or space for local trade , producer and shop to flourish . labour in government must also bring about an end to the unaccountable state . with the Hillsborough cover - up and the Windrush , Post Office and contaminate blood scandal , the story be always the same . Liverpool have a rich history of trade unionism and working - class struggle , a fierce sense of independence and a unique character . we know that our community be full of potential wait to be unlocked . I hope that this Labour Government will do just that . first , I thank my constituent in Sheffield South East for re - elect I for the ninth time . I sort of remember make my maiden speech many year ago along with the challenge that pose and the nervousness , so I pay great credit to all colleague on both side of the House who have do that today so ably and so well . I be remind by my hon . friend the Member for Sheffield Hallam ( Olivia Blake ) , who speak early , that there be now six labour mp in Sheffield . I be also remind that , of those six Labour mp , I be the last man stand . that be the change of balance in the House , with five woman mp for the city , and that be absolutely great . we will always continue to work together as colleague on behalf of our city . there have be comment about the famous Sheffield tea room meeting where we come together once a month — that be quite famous . I want to draw particular attention to issue that be raise when I be Chair of the Levelling up , Housing and Communities Committee in the last Parliament . there be so many issue in the King ' s Speech that I would like to mention , but the first be the commitment to build 1 . 5 million new home . housing have be a passion of mine ever since I be chair of the housing committee in Sheffield back in the 1980 . clearly , we have major problem — all mp can refer to people without home in their constituency , or who be live with in - law , in shared accommodation , or inadequate home with family live in upper - floor flat . we need to get Britain build again — it be good for the home that people need and it be good for growth . it be an important part of our growth agenda . it be good that we will make local authority set target to be achieve in their local plan — not advisory one as the previous Government do under the Levelling up and Regeneration Act 2023 — and it be absolutely right that target have to be meet . however , if we be to build 1 . 5 million home , we must recognise that the private sector and private developer will not build they . we will not hit that target without a substantial contribution from council and housing association — that be right in term of the number . it be right also to address the housing need of those who can not afford to buy , and who need a decent home to rent . my passion be to get Britain building , but build social housing as well . in try to achieve that , it be important to draw attention to a particular development in my constituency . it right that we build on brownfield site as far as we can . the idea that the planning change that the Government be propose will somehow mean that central diktat determine where house be build be not the case . local plan will still determine where house be build at local level . the Sheffield local plan give priority to build around the city centre and in the old industrial area in my constituency . the first development , call Attercliffe Waterside , will see up to 1 , 000 new home build by a private developer Citu . the first 350 have just be give planning permission — credit to Sheffield city council , the mayor of the combine authority Oliver Coppard , and Homes England . first , the development will not create section 106 funding to help with affordable housing . the mayor will have to put in £ 4 million to build on a brownfield old industrial site . these site be more expensive to build on — we must understand that . it be right that we build on they as a priority , but they be more expensive . we need that contribution from the mayor , and he have put it in . secondly , there will be no social housing on this site , as a purely commercial venture . Homes England have be extremely good ; it will provide some subsidy so that a significant number of those home will be social housing , which a housing association will manage . that be great , but it will cost money . I hope the Government will listen and work in partnership with the 20 local authority that have just write to they to ask for a joint agreement on how we build social housing in this country . they be say , " look , we be go to have challenge not just about build the home but about net zero , build safety and decent home standard . we need the Government ' s commitment that the fund will be available to deliver on those home . " otherwise , as a Select Committee report say a few month ago , all the money that should be go to build new home will go on those other priority , because the first duty of landlord in the social housing sector be to look after their exist home and tenant . it be important that the Government listen to that and have a long - term clear view of what rent policy will be , because that be where most of the income will come from to fund social house building . it be right that the Government revisit the unfair decision about debt in social housing that be put on council in the 2010 settlement by the coalition Government , because that burden stop council from go ahead and do what many of they want to do . there be issue that I hope the Government respond positively to . I must mention local authority . give my passion for local government and devolution , I welcome what the Prime Minister say about devolution — not just to mayor but to local council . I welcome his recognition of the current challenge of finance local council . there have be eight council with section 114 decision in the last year . of those , 19 be give permission to borrow capital in order to fund revenue . that be not sustainable in the long term . yes , there be a recognition there , but can we really carry on with local government finance base on a council tax system that look at 1991 valuation and , accord to the last Secretary of State Michael Gove , be regressive ? I be not sure that a Labour Government can sustain that . I hope for proper discussion with local council about a new system go forward . finally , on my own constituency and go for growth , I want to see early decision about small modular reactor . we can build those in Sheffield : Sheffield Forgemasters be in my constituency . hydrogen should be support — that be in the propose legislation — and ITM Power , a major hydrogen company , be in my constituency . I welcome the work be do with Boeing by the University of Sheffield on sustainable aviation fuel . Boeing be now develop research into light - bodied frame for aircraft . again , that be a contribution to job , help to equalise wage and living standard in my constituency , and to net zero . I hope to see those measure come forward as a matter of urgency . it be wonderful to be here follow the first king ' s Speech under a Labour Government since 1950 . when Labour be elect to form this country ' s next Government , it be on the promise of change . today ' s King ' s Speech waste no time in do just that . the package of legislation announce today place growth at its heart , with an ambitious plan to raise living standard for work people . I welcome the announcement of a crime and police Bill . I know how important it be to my constituent in Tamworth that they feel safe , but under the Conservatives Tamworth ' s police front desk be shut down . the very notion of community policing be develop by former Tamworth MP and Prime Minister Sir Robert Peel , so it be with great irony that local resident be currently without a public police station . I have write to the Home Secretary since her appointment and look forward to work with she to make that a reality . I visit the Central England Co - op in my constituency to speak to staff and USDAW – – Union of Shop , Distributive and Allied Workers — official about the abuse they face on a daily basis , the consistent threat of violence from shoplifting , and that , as a business , the Co - op lose more than £ 70 million due to shoplifting last year . I be therefore pleased that the Prime Minister have waste no time in deliver a Bill that will establish a new criminal offence of assault shopworker . in Tamworth , the Holiday Inn have be use for asylum purpose for year and the simple reality be that resident want their hotel back . tamworth benefit from local tourism and , as I have say before in this Chamber , the Holiday Inn should be for holiday . I therefore welcome today ' s announcement that the border security , asylum and immigration Bill include plan to end asylum hotel use . it be great to host the then shadow Home Secretary , my right hon . friend the Member for Pontefract , Castleford and Knottingley ( Yvette Cooper ) , in Tamworth early this month to brief she on the situation . I look forward to work with she in the come week to discuss the issue in great detail . my constituency of Tamworth and its village be at high - risk when it come to flood incident , but amidst chronic underfunding of the Environment Agency we remain fundamentally unprepared to tackle it . labour have set out plan for a flood resilience taskforce and I look forward to present it with the finding of the flooding summit I host in March this year . the summit , which be well - attend , explore new way of working and key strategic approach by local , regional and national stakeholder . all around we we can see that the NHS be struggle . over a decade of austerity and consistent de - prioritisation by conservative government have see local people hit hard . I have have too many conversation with constituent wait month for appointment or cancer screening , or in mental health crisis and unable to get support . in my own constituency of Tamworth , the closure of the George Bryan Centre mean my constituent need to travel many mile to access mental health support . many constituent will also welcome the child ' s wellbee Bill , which promise to raise standard in education , and require school to co - operate with local authority on special educational need and disability inclusion . it be great to see , on day 13 of a Labour Government , that we be already address this important issue . many people in Tamworth have have to endure the cost of living crisis that they do not ask for , nor do they deserve . while Tamworth ' s incredible network of community group have go above and beyond to fill the gap in support , the reality be that the Conservative Government ' s mismanagement of the economy hit the most vulnerable people in my constituency the hard . we must take action to address soar rent price . during the last few week , my team have still be support people who have be make homeless or who be at risk of be make homeless . it be fantastic to see the Prime Minister put forward a renter ' right Bill that give great right and protection for million of people who be rent and unable to afford their own home , and that it include proposal to abolish section 21 no - fault eviction . that should have be do a long time ago . it be great to open the Business Commission West Midlands event in Parliament last week , along with the chamber of commerce . I will be work alongside business , just as I have be over the past eight month , to spearhead investment and the strategic priority to support the town centre economy and local business . Tamworth have a strong entrepreneurial spirit , and it also have huge untapped potential . the Prime Minister ' s new english devolution Bill will see town and city give enhanced power and duty in respect of strategic planning , local transport network , skill , and employment support , enable they to create job and improve living standard . that be important to I , because , Madam Deputy Speaker , Tam - worth it ! order , that the debate be now adjourn . — ( Gerald Jones . ) debate to be resume tomorrow . Health Services : Rural Areas Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Gerald Jones . ) let I get my spec on properly , Madam Deputy Speaker . they have a wonky leg that stick out sideways . I must say at the outset that I have hear some excellent maiden speech today . it be a bit worrying to hear such good maiden speech , because it make one feel somewhat mundane in comparison . let I also welcome the Minister to her place : it be a pleasure to see she sit opposite I . this Adjournment debate be the first of the new Parliament , and I be grateful to the Speaker for grant it . it concern a topic that be important not only to my constituent in the highland , but to constituent in every rural area in the country . I thank the Minister for her attendance , and look forward to hear what she have to say . I hope that the debate set the tone for how a Government and an opposition can work together to meet the need of every citizen of the United Kingdom , no matter where they live . I recently have the great honour of be re - elect to represent Caithness , Sutherland and Easter Ross , which be now the large constituency in the United Kingdom . it measure a staggering 11 , 798 sq km , more than half the size of Wales . we be here tonight to discuss the adequacy of healthcare service in rural area , and for fear of be predictable I be afraid to say that the health service in the highland be not even faintly adequate . I recognise , of course , that health be devolve , but 17 year of centralisation have wreak havoc on my part of the world . health service have be strip back and gutte , leave my constituent with access to far too few local service . let I begin with general practice . in Scotland , we have see change in vaccination service because , in an effort to reduce GPs ' workload , GP contract Scotland remove their vaccination capability . that be of huge concern to crofter in my constituency who might cut themselves on a piece of barbed wire and need a tetanus vaccination as quickly as possible . the same go for anyone in need of shingle , flu , covid or travel vaccine . they must travel a staggering 70 mile or more to the near A & E , where they will face further wait owe to backlog result from heavy workload . I want to keep the tradition alive , Madam Deputy Speaker . this be my first intervention during an Adjournment debate in the new Parliament . I commend the hon . member for Caithness , Sutherland and Easter Ross ( Jamie Stone ) for raise an issue that be very important to I and to my constituency . I also congratulate he on his excellent victory in the poll : he have do exceptionally well . I hail from a rural constituency where my own doctor have to service a huge number of people , and the inadequacy of help for rural constituent be abundantly clear to I . do the hon . Member not agree that the current postcode lottery must end , and that access to GPs , physiotherapist , nutritionist and mental health service for farming and other rural community must be at least on a par with those in city and large town ? why should those in rural community be second - class citizen in their own country ? the hon . Member make his point with his customary charm . it be no wonder that he be so well like in this place , because he always speak for his constituent . I have talk about the delay in vaccination , which also apply to the lifesave vaccination that baby must have . the Scottish Government take a one - size - fit - all approach that , frankly , do not work in remote rural area such as mine . the retention and recruitment of GPs and other healthcare worker be crucial , but poor wage and term and condition , and a lack of proper travel reimbursement , all lead to a general impression that the game be simply not worth the candle . that be why we be miss key worker and doctor , and why we be pay through the nose for locum and temporary staff . Madam Deputy Speaker , can you believe that NHS Highland have spend £ 21 million on locum staffing in the past year ? that be almost 3 % of its entire budget — an eye - watering sum . could that money not have be spend much well , for example on care home , hospital or pain clinic that have be force to close ? I apologise for come a bit late to this debate . primary care be ask to do more in rural area than in urban setting , pile pressure on GPs , pharmacist and dentist , yet they struggle to recruit staff , as my hon . Friend say . a dental practice in Street , in my constituency , have be without an NHS dentist on its book for 18 month , despite its good effort . do my hon . friend agree that we must explore way in which we can incentivise healthcare professional to practise in rural area ? I absolutely endorse that . I be glad that I say in my opening remark that my experience in a very remote part of Scotland apply to other part of the United Kingdom . what we have just hear prove that this be the case . NHS Scotland have halt all new build and repair to health centre across the entire country , which be another problem for healthcare . I have say already how big my constituency be . just by commute or do house visit , healthcare staff will rack up 3 , 500 mile easily , because the distance be so great . at that point , their reimbursement per mile be more than halve , which do not encourage people to get involve . it be , in fact , discrimination against healthcare professional who live in rural community . training be overwhelmingly base in urban area , and there be very little incentive to get people to come and work in rural area . other factor , such as a lack of housing and job opportunity , feed into this problem . there be another issue I want to raise : the lack of woman ' s health provision , which be pretty severe . in my maiden speech in 2017 I speak about the need to restore maternity service to Caithness . seven year later , that be more important than ever . caithness general hospital use to have a consultant - lead maternity service , which mean that expectant mother could have their baby locally in the far north of Scotland . it be downgrade when I be my constituency ' s Member of the Scottish Parliament . at that time , I have more influence and I get it restore . since then , however , the maternity service have be downgrade again , and there appear to be no movement from the Scottish Government to reverse that . I wish that some member from the party of the Scottish Government be present today . let I give an example of what this situation mean : pregnant mother have to make a 200 - mile round trip in the car to deliver their baby . imagine a trip like that in the middle of winter , and on rickety - rackety road in the highland . in 2019 , a pair of twin be bear — one be bear in Golspie , and the other be bear 50 mile away , in Inverness . it be a miracle that those child survive , and that neither a mother nor a child have perish . I have be call for a safety audit all along , but there have never be one . we know perfectly well what the result would be : the arrangement would be deem unsafe , if not a breach of human right . it be not just about maternity service ; woman ' s health have be remove from the far north . a routine trip to see a gynaecologist and get a diagnosis for a life - threaten ovarian cyst , or for endometriosis , mean travel the same huge distance — if a woman be lucky enough to get an appointment before her condition have progress too far for her safety . I wonder what we can do to encourage healthcare professional to relocate to remote area , because the health and wellbeing of their wife and daughter must surely be a factor when they consider move . for child grow up in the far north , it be no well . the waiting list for child and adolescent mental health assessment be three year . for neurodevelopmental screening — for the diagnosis of dyslexia , autism , attention deficit hyperactivity disorder and so on — it be four year . that be the majority of their time at school . one family I speak to during the election have wait 13 year for a diagnosis . that be a disaster . dentistry have already be mention , and we know that intervention be crucial for long - term dental health I be grateful to my hon . friend for give way , and I apologise to he for be catch out by the early start of this Adjournment debate . do he agree that it would be really helpful if the new Government achieve a quick win to raise morale in rural area where service have be so deplete for so long ? this apply in west Cornwall , for example , where we can not call on service from the north or south or west very easily . in those area , as in other , we have a dentistry desert and the NHS and care service be experience their big crisis in their history . what we need , for example , be for the West Cornwall hospital to re - establish the urgent treatment centre overnight . those kind of quick win could achieve the lifting of morale within the service and start move thing forward and upward from where they be at present . my hon . friend make a good point , and I shall touch upon his sentiment in my closing remark . as many in the Chamber know — perhaps new member do not — I myself be a carer : I be a carer for my wife . so I be very happy that my party have put carer at the top of our agenda . my party leader have speak about be a carer himself . we desperately need reform , and I believe that the carer allowance should be introduce at a high rate . in a way , I be declare an interest here , in that I be an unpaid carer , but we have to look at this . I be recently inform of a constituent who be move from one care home to another one 123 mile away in the highland . that be a three - and - a - bit - hour journey each way for the love one to go and visit that old man . we can see why this be not great for morale . I be from the highland . I love my native highland and I care passionately about where I come from , but I think that we need urgent intervention . this be my ask of the Minister . I recognise the nobility of the intent to address these problem at UK level , and I look forward to work with the Government in these endeavour , but the fact be that there be not the delivery under devolution that there should be . I be sorry that no Scottish National party member be here . I be a committed devolutionist . I be part of the Scottish Constitutional Convention and my name be on the claim of right for Scotland , yet I find it incredibly disappointing that the outcome be a lot bad than they be . when I be in government in the Scottish Parliament , in coalition with the Labour party , we see progress between 1999 and 2007 , when the SNP come in . now we see that thing have go backwards . this be the main issue on the doorstep in Scotland , so I hope that the Labour Government can work hard at improve thing . I ask they in a cordial way to do everything that can be do to improve the relationship with the Scottish Government , and perhaps encourage the Scottish Government to look at good practice in the rest of the UK and adopt that . I be not talk about hypothecation or about unroll devolution , but by work together perhaps we can achieve something . also , it would be great if we could encourage NHS England to work closely with NHS Scotland , because it be complete and utter nonsense that people who could cross the border and get treatment have be prevent from do so by bureaucracy , sometimes by politic of the not - so - clever sort , or by the computer system not match . that be nonsense . if someone live in the south of Scotland can get their operation do in Newcastle , let we just go for it . I look forward to a Labour Government give extra money to the health service , and I be sure they will . we will be look closely at how that happen . there will , of course , be Barnett consequential that will put that money into the devolved Welsh Assembly , the Scottish Parliament and the Northern Ireland Assembly . I hope that the UK Government will look closely at where those Barnett consequential go . will they go where we would hope they would go — namely , to improve the health service , to shorten waiting list , to sort out the nonsense , and to give the standard of health service that my constituent and I believe everyone in rural part of the UK be cry out for ? it be a privilege to be the first Minister of this new Labour Government to respond to an Adjournment debate . I be grateful to the hon . member for Caithness , Sutherland and Easter Ross ( Jamie Stone ) for raise this important matter and , indeed , for his kind word . I hope we can begin this Parliament as we mean to go on , by be candid about the formidable challenge that the NHS face . as my right hon . friend the Secretary of State say on his first day in the job , the NHS be break , and it will be the task of this government to build a new NHS for the future . that mean the NHS in our rural and coastal area no less than the NHS in our town and city . I agree with the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) on that point . face these hard truth do not take away from the heroic effort of the people work in health and care , who have do their utmost in incredibly difficult circumstance . we all owe they , on behalf of our constituent , a debt of unende gratitude . instead , we want to focus our attention on what need to be do , include early action to improve access to primary care , dentistry and dental health service in particular . we await the conclusion of a thorough investigation undertake by the distinguished surgeon Lord Darzi to properly understand the scale of the problem . the Government will then begin work on an ambitious programme of action — a 10 - year plan to put the NHS back on its foot . it be a privilege to be part of a Labour Government who be committed to fix the NHS and make it fit for the future . as the hon . member for Caithness , Sutherland and Easter Ross say , the Department ' s responsibility stretch only to the NHS in England . Healthcare be devolve in Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland , and it will continue to be so . I congratulate the hon . gentleman on be first out of the trap to secure this debate on behalf of his constituent . as a committed advocate for his constituent in one of the most rural part of Scotland , he have a deep understanding of matter affect rural community , as we have hear this evening . he also have a deep understanding of care , about which I have often hear he speak in this Chamber . it be good to see he back again do just that . I can not speak in detail about the NHS in Scotland , of course , but I can speak about many of the common issue affect access to care that be relevant to rural constituency in England , Scotland , Northern Ireland and Wales . I know how rural the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency be , and I know the particular challenge that create in access GPs , dentist and emergency care , and in access woman ' s health and maternity service — an issue he have be passionately raise for so long . maternity service be a problem across the United Kingdom , but I accept the example he outline . few place in England be as remote as the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency , but I be very aware of similar issue affect more rural area near my Bristol South constituency . we have hear from the hon . member for Glastonbury and Somerton ( Sarah Dyke ) and for St Ives ( Andrew George ) about morale and the difficulty we face in the south - west . I hope that , in the year ahead , we can share and learn from one another across all of our border . in many rural area , the challenge of improve access to service be compound by travel time and by the recruitment and retention of staff . we must recognise the importance of design service that reflect an area ' s particular circumstance , which be a grow challenge . as the chief medical officer have point out in his report , people be move out of town and city to coastal , semi - rural and rural area as they age . at the time that people be most likely to need care , they be increasingly live in the place where it be most difficult to provide that care . in England , integrate care system will have a key role to play in design service that meet the need of local people . to do this , they will need to work with clinician and local community at place or neighbourhood level . we know that excellent primary care be an essential foundation for improve access , tackle the root cause of poor health and tackle problem early so that people remain in well health for long , and hopefully do not need to access secondary and tertiary care at the same level . that be why Labour have pledge , as part of our health mission , to train thousand more gps and bring back the family doctor , and that apply to all the nation . we be also do more to use the transformative power of technology . there be enormous potential in idea such as virtual ward , which allow care to be deliver in people ' s own home . such model of care can have disproportionate benefit in area where rurality be a barrier to care . equally , we be committed to see the NHS app reach its full potential under the new Government . we understand that some people will need support to use that technology and we be aware of the challenge of rural broadband , but we be committed to make the benefit accessible to all . the Minister have commit the new Labour Government to address those issue , but will she specifically address the matter of the two coroner ' report into avoidable excess death as a result of very long wait for emergency service in Cornwall ? they be never address by the previous Conservative Government . the report be about not just the hour spend wait — sometimes elderly , frail people be on the floor for 10 or more hour — but the fact that sometimes 20 or more ambulance greet patient when they arrive at the emergency department . two coroner ' report be send to the then Secretary of State , but there be never an adequate response . I very much hope the new Labour Government will review the failing of the previous Government and address those very serious concern , which affect many other rural area . I be aware of the issue face the south - west and , when in Opposition , I speak in the local medium about some of the ambulance challenge . I be not aware of those report , but if the hon . Gentleman write to I with the detail , I will happily look into the issue and get back to he . we also recognise the additional cost of provide service in rural area , for example in travel and staff time . that be why the funding formula use by NHS England to allocate fund to integrate care board include an element to well reflect need in some rural , coastal and remote area . the NHS face significant challenge . it need fundamental reform . the Prime Minister be personally commit to reset the UK Government ' s relationship with devolved government in Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland . I echo the Prime Minister ' s word today about our commitment to rural constituency across the entire country and I hope we can work with hon . member from across the House , include the hon . member for Caithness , Sutherland and Easter Ross . I welcome the Minister ' s clear commitment to England , Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland — and particularly to Northern Ireland . let I declare an interest : I be a member of the Ulster Farmers Union . I know that the Ulster Farmers Union back home , in conjunction with the NFU here , have be try to work with the health service and with all those with responsibility in this area on the issue of suicide . farmer mostly work on their own and suffer from anxiety and depression . they face pressure from finance and pressure from the bureaucracy that exist in farming . I know the Minister be compassionate and understanding — I mean that honestly . when it come to address that issue , do she think that it must be do in conjunction with the farmer union ? try to work together to make thing well must be a step in the right direction . as ever , the hon . Gentleman make a valid point . I shall certainly ask my colleague in the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs about that . his point be extremely well make . I know his constituency in Northern Ireland very well . let I say that we be very committed to work with hon . member across the House to share idea . the hon . member for Caithness , Sutherland and Easter Ross have put forward more idea about how that can happen . I do not promise to implement all of those thing , but I will certainly look at they . we want to work very closely across all jurisdiction so that we can make progress for all our constituent to improve the health outcome across the four nation of the United Kingdom . question put and agree to . House adjourn .