my hon . friend be also a first , so I congratulate she on that — and , yes , I absolutely agree with she on that point . on average , we will all live to see 80 christmas . the thing be , what be we go to do with they ? some people in the world be act like they will live forever — God , I hope we do not , and I know that that will not be the case — but some pass through the world , leave it just as they find it . our job in Parliament be to change the world for the well . we need to leave an indelible footprint by ensure that the world protect all woman , not just straight , white woman . we should start with the gay woman , the black woman and the disabled woman . if we protect those , we will protect all woman and the world will be a well place . I often say that I can not get my right until everybody have their right , because our right and our life be very much intertwine — whether we believe it or not . and just because I be pro - woman , pro - lgbtqi + and pro - black , it do not mean , as have be say online , that I be anti - white ; far from it . I be pro - jerk chicken and rice and pea and I still love a bit of pie and mash and fish and chip . we can love more than one thing and be pro many thing . I want to end with a cold reality check . in Malcolm Gladwell ' s brilliant book , " the Tipping Point " and in his follow - up book " Revenge of the Tipping Point " , he talk about the law of the very few , the overstory and the counterfactual line " what would have happen if " . we be slowly win the war on highlight violence against woman and girl , highlight injustice and highlight discrimination , but we do not appreciate the honest conversation that we need to have around how epidemic work , or appreciate the power of group proportion . we be fool ourselves if we think that we bear no responsibility for this epidemic of violence against woman and girl . epidemic have rule and they have boundary . they be subject to overstorie , and we in society be in a position of power to create those overstorie . these overstorie change in size and shape when they reach a tipping point and it be possible to know when we be reach that tipping point . we be currently at that tipping point when it come to violence against woman and girl . the opioid crisis in the US be a lesson for we all . Most of the medical profession act professionally , but a tiny fraction — just a few — do not , and that be enough to fuel an opioid epidemic in the US . that tiny fraction be drive by a certain class of people , and those people can be identify . the tool need to control an epidemic be right in front of we . they be sit on the table , and we can either grab those tool or let the unscrupulous people grab they . if we grab they , we can build a well world . we need to take action and have an honest conversation . we need to ensure that organisation that believe in fair pay get the procurement contract . we need to be mindful about the social medium platform that we use , and we need to elect people who care for many people , not just the 1 % . by do that , we will accelerate action , which be the theme of International Women ' s Day this year . I end with a message to the straight white boy and man in the middle of the table : " we need your protection , we need your love , we need your care and we need your kindness . " we know , as I have say , that daughter and young girl learn how to be treat by their partner by watch how man treat woman in their life , and young boy learn how to be man from the man in their life , so we need all man , regardless of colour , class and economic status , to lead by example . woman be literally fight for their life . I want every single man in the world watch this debate to join we in that struggle . we should all believe in fairness . we should all believe in end discrimination and homophobia . in the time that it have take I to make this speech , one woman globally will have be kill by her partner or a family member . may her soul rest in peace . it be a true privilege to speak in this year ' s debate . I will start by acknowledge just some of the woman in scottish politic who be inspire and pave the way for future generation of woman in Scotland , especially the next generation of female politician . there be our Chief Whip , my hon . friend the Member for Aberdeen North ( Kirsty Blackman ) , who would have love to be here today but sadly could not make it ; Karen Adam , our MSP for Banffshire and Buchan Coast ; and two — only two — of our local councillor in Aberdeenshire : Gwyneth Petrie , our opposition group leader , and Louise McAllister , our group chair . I pay tribute to the tireless work do by Sally Donald , a member of staff for my neighbouring MP , my hon . friend the Member for Moray West , Nairn and Strathspey ( Graham Leadbitter ) . as co - chair of ParliGender , the workplace equality network advocate for gender equality in Parliament , she have introduce a mentorship scheme for female member of staff , which have be very popular , show the demand for such scheme in this place . while I stand here and thank the woman who have commit their time , energy and live to the people of Scotland , I want to take a second to note that at our current pace , a girl bear today will be nearly 40 year old before woman in this place hold as many seat in Parliament as man . that be a devastating statistic in the face of this year ' s theme : right , equality and empowerment . although we be honour to be in a Parliament that have the high number of female mps in history , let we not forget that woman be only able to stand in election as late as 1918 . up until 1997 , woman have never hold more than 10 % of the seat in Parliament . on this day dedicate to the right , equality and empowerment of all woman , I want to acknowledge the additional challenge that exist for woman in today ' s society , the obstacle they face to enter the world of politic and those that persist once they be here . I want to acknowledge how much strong and more diverse this House would be with more female colleague sit on these Benches . I pay tribute to the great woman of our independence movement in Scotland . there be too many to mention , but I will name two : the late , great Winnie Ewing , who be an MP here , and the late president of the Fraserburgh SNP branch , Nancy Duffy . I be endlessly inspire by my female colleague and the female member on these Benches . I ask the Minister what initiative the Government be take to encourage more woman and girl to access a career in politic , so that they may follow in the footstep of all my female colleague and ensure that the equal right of all woman be at the core of everything this Parliament be work towards . finally , I congratulate the hon . member for Brent East ( Dawn Butler ) on secure this debate and on the powerful speech she make . the hon . member for Bolsover ( Natalie Fleet ) talk about the need for we to speak out about rape case . in the debate on slapp — strategic lawsuit against public participation — in November , I bring to the Minister ' s notice a rape case . I be promise a ministerial meeting , and I be still wait on that meeting . that be five month ago , so perhaps the Minister here today could respond to that .