Oral Answers to Questions Transport the Secretary of State be ask — Local Transport Authorities and Mayors : Financial Support what financial support she be provide to local transport authority and mayor . welcome , Secretary of State . may I start by say it be very good to be here ? I wish you , Mr Speaker , and the House staff a happy new year , and I wish the Aviation Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Wythenshawe and Sale East ( Mike Kane ) , a happy birthday . he will not want to be remind of his age . [ laughter . ] in the Budget , the Government confirm more than £ 1 billion of funding to support bus service , an additional £ 200 million for the city region sustainable transport settlement for eligible mayor , more than £ 650 million for local transport outside the city region , a £ 500 million increase in local highway maintenance , and £ 485 million in capital funding for Transport for London . I begin by welcome the Secretary of State to the Dispatch Box for her first question time . she bring great experience of work to bring transport authority together . my constituency of Worsley and Eccles suffer from regular serious rush - hour congestion . how can she support transport authority in urban area to work with neighbouring authority to ensure a strategic approach be take across commuter belt to alleviate congestion ? I thank my hon . friend for his kind word , and I assure he that the Government be commit to improve local transport across individual local authority boundary . we have provide more than £ 1 billion in funding to the Greater Manchester combine authority in his area , which take a strategic approach to manage transport across its region . my right hon . friend the Deputy Prime Minister have also set out ambitious measure in the recent " English Devolution " White Paper to support more join - up run of local transport network , which people rely upon every day . I welcome the Secretary of State to the Dispatch Box , and say happy birthday to the Aviation Minister . bus in my constituency be not adequate and the situation have be make bad since the £ 2 fare cap be lift . local authority in Bath want to improve the situation . they want to franchise bus service themselves , but their hand be tie by the Labour West of England combine authority Mayor , who refuse to do so . what should local authority such as Bath do ? the Government step in to ensure that bus fare would not explode at the beginning of this year , when the £ 2 fare cap that the previous Government legislate for run out . in the bad - case scenario , cost on some service could have increase by 650 % , and it be important that we take that action to ensure such fare rise be avoidable . I advise her local authority to work through any issue with the regional mayor . it be vital that we see transport authority of all type collaborate to ensure that we have good , high - frequency , high - quality bus service for local people to go about their daily life . may I also welcome the Secretary of State to her place ? it be a delight to see she there . I wonder if she might help I . in circumstance where a mayor do not want to embrace the opportunity of the Bus Services ( no . 2 ) Bill and fully re - regulate , as in the Tees Valley , will she give some consideration to provide a power in forthcoming legislation for the public to overreach that ? will she consider that option ? a number of option be outline in the Bus Services ( no . 2 ) Bill , which have its Second reading in the other place yesterday , include franchising option , enhance local bus partnership and municipal ownership of bus company . while my hon . friend ' s suggestion be not currently in the Bill , I gently point out to he that there would have to be an authority to let contract , include with private provider . while I be happy to explore option , we need to think through the practicality of suggestion such as his . Cullompton and Wellington railway station be two of the most advanced of all the programme in the restore your railway fund . the exist local transport authority have already invest in get we to the stage of a full business case , with a high benefit - cost ratio of 3 . 67 . can the Secretary of State confirm that this programme be in no way disadvantage compare with those transport authority in urban area that have mayor ? we consider business case for rail enhancement fairly , and no undue advantage would be give to the area that the hon . Gentleman suggest . I be fortunate in my first couple of week in this job to visit the opening of the Northumberland line , which provide service up to Ashington . I know what an invaluable difference the improved connectivity on the rail network can provide . I would be happy to talk to he about his scheme . European Geostationary Navigation Overlay Service if she will review the UK ' s participation in the European Geostationary Navigation Overlay Service programme . the Department for Transport be work with the Department for Science , Innovation and Technology to consider option for the UK ' s access to a navigation system of this type , which lapse follow Brexit . this work be ongoing , and no decision have be make at this time . I also welcome the Secretary of State to her new role , and I look forward to work across party boundary where possible . EGNOS be a satellite enhancement system for gps . prior to Brexit , Highlands and Islands Airports Ltd , which be headquarter in my constituency , have be work with National Air Traffic Services on develop the use of the system , and invest a lot of time and effort . it would increase mapping accuracy and , vitally , enable plane fly lifeline air service to land in a broad range of circumstance , improve service and reliability . as the Minister say , that work have stall since Brexit , but the Government can re - engage with the programme should they choose , as it be open to non - EU member . will the Minister commit to do that ? I be grateful to the hon . member for put this on my radar . [ interruption . ] too early ? [ laughter . ] Don ' t give up the day job . it be an important issue . we be consider the cost and benefit of all option , and it be very good particularly for regional airport . we be work with the EU to identify area where we can strengthen co - operation for mutual benefit , but it be still too early to discuss that specific area in detail . I hope to come back to the House at a later time with a more consider view . Road Safety : Vulnerable Road Users what step she be take to help improve road safety for vulnerable road user . I assure the hon . member that this Government treat road safety with the utmost seriousness . we be committed to reduce the number of those kill and seriously injure on our road . my Department be develop our road safety strategy , and will set out further detail in due course . I join other in welcome the Secretary of State to her place . bikeability be the world ' s large road safety programme . recent datum from the Bikeability Trust show that in area with high level of training for child , the number of people kill or seriously injure on the road decrease . do the Minister agree that bikeability training be an essential life skill that everyone should have access to , and will she commit to join I on a visit to a local Oxfordshire school to see the scheme in action ? a total of 1 . 6 million people have participate in Active Travel England ' s training programme , include a record half a million child receive cycle training last year . I be a keen cyclist and , have be knock off my bike in the last couple of year , I understand how important it be to feel confident about cycling safely . I would be happy to join the hon . member to see some of that work in action . I warmly welcome my right hon . friend the Secretary of State to her place . a couple of year ago , some child in my constituency start a campaign about a really dangerous stretch of road where car speed and there be no pedestrian crossing . tragically , a few month ago , one of those child lose her grandmother to a car crash on that very stretch of road . this be devastating for family and community . what step be the Government take to make our road safe ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that case . every single death on our road be tragic , which be precisely why we will bring forward further measure with the new road safety strategy — the first in more than a decade — which will consider how to prevent such appalling tragedy , include in her constituency . as police and crime commissioner for Lancashire , I invest significant amount of money in increase the resource available to target drink and drug driver , which be a key plank in improve road safety . it have become easy for police to target drug driver over recent year , in particular through the advancement of technology , but while arrest rate have improve , charge rate be still lag behind ; it take month for drug driver , compare with week for drink driver . D . tec International be a Fylde company that provide all 43 police force with DrugWipe kit . it would like to use technology that be use in other european country to improve charge rate through the use of roadside saliva testing . will the Minister meet I and D . tec International to look at how this technology could improve the speed with which we can get drug driver ban and off our road ? the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right to raise concern about the impact of drug driving . those affect by an impairment drug be involve in 13 % of fatality last year . just before Christmas , I go out with Jo Shiner , one of the lead police officer responsible for road police , and see the work that be happen and hear about prosecution , which the hon . Gentleman have raise . I would be very happy to meet he to discuss the matter far . St Helens Road in my constituency have regrettably become the site of numerous serious car crash , and local resident have raise their grave concern with I about both speed and dangerous driving . how be the Minister work with local leader in particular to drive improvement to road safety ? my hon . friend be right to raise the concern of his constituent . local authority have a vital role to play ; they be responsible for introduce road safety measure appropriate to their area . of course , the Department be responsible for legislation and the guidance to help they to do so . I continue to engage with local authority to ensure we be provide they with the support they need to make our road safe . Road Maintenance what step her Department be take to help maintain road . what assessment she have make of the adequacy of the condition of local road . what assessment she have make of the adequacy of the condition of local road . what assessment she have make of the adequacy of the condition of local road . what assessment she have make of the adequacy of the condition of local road . the Government be determined to help local authority in England to tackle the highway maintenance backlog that be the result of a decade of under - investment by the previous Government . we be make an immediate start by provide an extra £ 500 million next year — an increase of nearly 50 % compare with the current financial year . the A1 be a vital road link for the Scottish Borders and Scotland to the rest of the United Kingdom , and labour ' s decision to scrap much - need improvement will harm the local economy and stop business invest in job . the local Labour MP , the hon . member for North Northumberland ( David Smith ) , have say he be " disappointed and frustrated " by the decision of his labour colleague . what do the Labour Government have against car driver and truck user on road in rural Scotland ? I can assure the hon . Gentleman that we have nothing against car driver and truck user . we appreciate the long - stand local desire for dualle the A1 from Morpeth to Ellingham , but I be sorry to say that in the assessment we carry out post the general election , it represent poor value for money . there have be several delay to the development consent order decision and the contractor be decommission more than two year ago . in that time , scheme cost have rise significantly , make the scheme even less affordable and far worsen the value for money . have say that , I recognise that there be safety issue on the exist route , which we will need to look at carefully , as we would with any other part of the network . however , that alone do not warrant the dualle scheme . I welcome my right hon . friend the Secretary of State to her place . pothole represent a serious issue in Basingstoke , with many constituent tell I of damaged vehicle and even physical injury . the AA , which be base in Basingstoke , highlight inconsistent standard across the country , with some pothole leave unaddresse for long than other . the Pothole Partnership urge UK - wide standard and permanent repair over temporary fix . I welcome the Government ' s additional investment to tackle this issue , but will the Secretary of State consider ensure that council adopt common standard so that community such as Basingstoke no long face dangerous , crumble road ? my hon . friend be absolutely right about the damage that pothole can cause for all road user . we have commit record money to fix this issue and to enable council to get on with this work . all local authority should have their own standard of road maintenance service and inspection in line with local need and priority . however , I do want to update the Department ' s guidance to local authority on how good to look after their highway network and ensure good practice be follow , and so that there be common minimum standard so that all road user know what they can expect . I also welcome my right hon . friend the Secretary of State to her place . many of my constituent in Wolverhampton West complain not only about the number of pothole in our road but about the standard of repair , with some pothole reappear shortly after they have be repair . while the £ 1 . 6 billion of funding for council be very welcome , will she please confirm what other step the Government be take to ensure that our road be always well maintain to avoid the risk of injury to people and damage to vehicle ? we agree that local authority should not just patch pothole , but focus on long - term preventive programme for repair and maintain all part of the highway network , include footpath , pavement and bridge . we will require local authority to follow good practice to get the full funding uplift , and we will update the guidance document " well - manage Highway Infrastructure : a Code of Practice " to support local authority in that and to emphasise the importance of proactive preventive measure . pothole plague the street of Thurrock and be a daily reminder of 14 year of conservative neglect . Stifford Clays , where my own tentative attempt to learn to drive take place , be particularly bad , but the effect be feel throughout my constituency . I be pleased that the Secretary of State be tackle this issue , with £ 4 million commit for Thurrock specifically . will she tell I how much motorist in Thurrock could save under Labour ' s plan ? our broken road have long be a national embarrassment , and a proper fund to fix our road have long be overdue . in answer to my hon . friend ' s specific question , RAC datum show that the average cost of pothole - relate damage to vehicle be about £ 500 , with severe repair often cost much more . the Government ' s extra funding for local highway maintenance next year could therefore save individual motorist in Thurrock hundred of pound , if not more . local resident tell I of their frustration at the epidemic level of pothole across my constituency after 14 year of failure to grasp the problem . motorist be all too often the one who will pay the price . do the Secretary of State agree that local council like Northumberland , North Tyneside and Newcastle in my constituency will benefit from proper long - term funding to allow they to plan work and carry out repair ? I totally agree with my hon . friend . we need to get the basic right as a country , and fix our road be the first step to get our economy fire on all cylinder . we do see a decade of decline and under - investment under the previous Conservative Government . the additional £ 500 million that we have allocate , if it be all use to fill pothole , would fill another 7 million pothole every year , smash our manifesto commitment to provide funding for an extra 1 million . whether on Silverdale Road , Rodmill Drive , Quebec Close or Ceylon Place , pothole litter our road in Eastbourne after year of neglect by the Conservative county council . indeed , the Mirzas at my local garage have replace my tyre a number of time , and I thank they for it . we also have a ridiculous situation where pothole right next to each other be not sort out at the same time . will the Secretary of State urge East Sussex county council to stop that wasteful practice and ensure that Eastbourne benefit from its fair share of the nearly £ 300 million grant to the south - east to tackle pothole ? I have be clear that local transport authority should use the money in a way that provide excellent value for money for the taxpayer , and the situation that the hon . Member describe do concern I . we have wait a long time for this level of investment to come forward , and I be keen to see local authority such as his cracking on with the job and make sure that motorist — all road user , for that matter — have safe , smooth road that they can travel on . the road in Wokingham , like everywhere else in the country , have deteriorate in the last few year . we need to stop pothole , not just fix they , and that mean regularly resurface road . the unfunded backlog of resurfacing leave by the Conservatives in Wokingham be about £ 16 million and get big ; nationally , it be £ 14 billion . when will the Minister ' s Department deliver proper funding for Wokingham ' s road ? I disagree slightly with the hon . Gentleman , because I think a £ 500 million uplift be proper funding — it represent , on average , a 40 % increase , and it take the overall amount of funding up to £ 1 . 8 billion . however , I do agree with his substantive point . some of this money should be use for proactive preventative road resurfacing , because in some case that will provide the good value for money for the taxpayer . hundred of local authority road across the country include half - joint bridge build in the 1960 and 1970 that be now dangerously unsafe . they include the Brigsteer Road and Underbarrow Road bridge lead out of Kendal , which have be close for the last six month , cause great inconvenience to the local community . they be build with Government fund 50 or 60 year ago , but local council be unable to replace they with the fund available to they now . will the Secretary of State meet representative of Westmorland and Furness council as a matter of urgency , so that the bridge can be reopen and our community can be reconnecte quickly ? I will ask my colleague the Minister for the future of Roads to have that meeting with the council . however , the additional money that we have provide , and the individual allocation that be announce before Christmas , can be use not just for road maintenance , but for bridge and pavement . I call the shadow Minister . I , too , welcome the Secretary of State to her post , and look forward to help she to do an excellent job . as we can see follow the last few day of flooding , change weather pattern be damage our road and increase pothole . the last Government allocate an additional £ 8 billion for road improvement , pay for by the cancellation of the northern leg of HS2 , yet all we have see from Labour be a commitment of £ 1 . 8 billion for this financial year . will the Secretary of State commit to match the additional £ 8 billion for road maintenance ? we be more than match the commitment make by the previous Government . let I say gently to the hon . Gentleman that his commitment in respect of resurface road fall into exactly the same category as the promise to provide 40 new hospital , and a range of other commitment that prove not to be worth the paper they be write on . they be fantasy figure , unlike the Labour party ' s promise to deliver change . an additional £ 500 million be come into our highway maintenance budget , so that people across the country can see that change deliver to their local area . I do not know about you , Mr Speaker , but I be not sure whether that be a commitment to match the £ 8 billion , or whether the Secretary of State consider it to be a fantasy commitment . however , it be not just the £ 8 billion investment that seem to have go missing . as soon as they be in power , the Labour Government cancel the A27 bypass , the Stonehenge tunnel , improvement to the A47 in Great Yarmouth , the A1 from Morpeth to Ellingham , junction 8 of the M27 at Southampton , and other project . that be £ 3 . 3 billion axe from work to help motorist . what have they do with the money ? have Labour prioritise pay rise for union over improve road and help motorist ? the truth of the matter be that when this Government come to office , we inherit a raft of half - baked , unfunded scheme that we be have to work through to provide a sensible pipeline of infrastructure improvement for our country . I will take no lesson from the hon . Gentleman about investment in our national infrastructure . roadwork : prevent Road Closures what step she be take to help prevent road closure when roadwork be not take place . I be delighted to confirm that , as part of the £ 1 . 6 billion investment in highway maintenance that the Government announce before Christmas , we will clamp down on disruptive work by double fix penalty notice for utility company that fail to comply with rule and extend charge for work that overrun into weekend . I draw member ' attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . driver in my constituency be sick to death of the endless road closure and temporary traffic light when no work be take place . will the Minister demand that utility company do everything in their power to get road open as quickly as possible , particularly when they have dig they up under the emergency procedure ? absolutely . there can be legitimate reason why work be sometimes leave unoccupied — for example , when they be wait for material to cure or gas to vent — but I take the hon . member ' s point , particularly where utility be use emergency procedure unnecessarily . we have examine Street Manager datum and speak to industry representative and find no evidence of misuse . none the less , give the number of urgent work — which be , of course , not unrelated to the appalling state of our road leave by the previous Government — we will see what more can be do to ensure that these work be manage and communicate to road user properly . roadwork plague my constituency . a significant issue be that utility company dig up the road without require council permission , and they often leave these site incomplete while different team carry out their work , cause chaos and congestion in the process . we frequently face the absurd situation where there be roadwork on diversion route for roadwork . do the Minister agree that we need to require utility company to co - ordinate with council to properly plan this maintenance work and complete their project in a timely manner , in order to avoid congestion ? my hon . friend be prove a great champion for road user in his constituency . the simple answer to his question be yes . local authority already have a legal duty to co - ordinate all work on their network , and utility company have a duty to co - operate , and we will ensure that they do so . Public Transport Accessibility what step she be take to help improve the accessibility of public transport . we be work with industry to deliver a transport network that put passenger and their need at its heart . the new aviation accessibility task and finish group , for example , bring together industry and consumer advocate with first - hand experience to improve accessibility in air travel . the Government will take advantage of the benefit of a unified rail network to deliver a more reliable and consistent customer experience for everyone with accessibility need , and our bus Bill will make bus travel more accessible and inclusive , include by extend the requirement for relevant bus staff to undertake disability training . I thank the Minister for his response . leagrave station in Luton be one of a number grant access for all funding by the previous Government for long - overdue lift . however , Network Rail now say that this money be never allocate and that it only qualify for a business case , despite a feasibility study already be agree and complete . those who can make the nearly 2 million journey from Leagrave station , include myself , be leave with a crumble footbridge that be not accessible for many . will the Minister offer assurance that access for all funding to Leagrave station will be honour , and will he meet I and the Bedfordshire Rail Access Network to establish the quick path to have lift at Leagrave station ? my hon . friend be a formidable advocate for this , have raise it numerous time . the Rail Minister be carefully consider the decision make by the previous Government in relation to the Access for all programme . my hon . friend will be aware that Leagrave be one of 50 station across Britain select by the previous Government for further consideration of whether they could be make step - free between the entrance and all platform . we will shortly update the House on our approach to Access for all , but let I assure she that we be committed to improve the accessibility of the rail network , recognise the social and economic benefit that that bring . like the hon . member for Luton North ( Sarah Owen ) , I have station in my constituency — in Hedge End and Swanwick — that be allocate money by the previous Government for accessibility lift . unlike her rail company , mine do accept that that money be allocate . within the first week of this Government take over , that be scrap , and the Rail Minister write to I without any clear plan for when this Government will make an announcement on what will happen with the Access for all scheme . the Minister have just say that it will happen shortly . can he be more clear for my constituent , who have be wait for a very long time , so that disabled people and people with wheelchair and pushchair in my constituency can make the journey they need to make ? when will this Government make an announcement on Access for all ? I can assure the hon . member that as soon as I be in a position to do so , I will give he more information on the Access for all programme . two of my friend , Ruth and Janet , be wheelchair user — one of they as a result of an accident just outside this place 25 year ago . they can not travel together on our bus , as there be only ever one wheelchair space . they often book assistance at train station , only for it not to turn up , leave they strand . their handling on plane have lead to not only bruise and pain , but loss of dignity and sometimes miss flight when assistance do not come in time . they be now reluctant to go on holiday if it mean fly . will the Secretary of State meet they and set up consultation with disabled passenger up and down the country , so that our public transport can meet their need in every region ? will she require local authority take over bus service to consult disabled passenger and set minimum standard for delivery ? we want a transport system for everyone , in which accessibility be design as standard across the network so that we can make it easy for people to get on and off service , and build a safe and more secure network , particularly for woman and girl . it be the Government ' s ambition for disabled people to have equal access to transport , recognise the need of people with visible and less visible condition , and I would be more than happy to meet my hon . friend . leuchar train station in my constituency serve St Andrews and be well use by resident , student and tourist , but its wheelchair access be completely unacceptable . it feel as though we fall through the gap between the Scottish Government and the UK Government on Access for all . can the Minister confirm whether the Access for all review be look at ensure that those in the devolved nation do not miss out ? I can assure the hon . Lady that I will raise this issue with the Rail Minister . I be quite confident that he have have these discussion with the devolved government . sustainable Aviation Fuels what step she be take to support the use and production of sustainable aviation fuel . the SAF mandate , which be one of the first pioneer policy of its kind , come into force on 1 January 2025 to build domestic demand for SAF . we be also grow UK supply through the advanced fuel fund , and we be committed to introduce a revenue certainty mechanism in the King ' s Speech to encourage investment in UK SAF production . I thank the Minister for his response . this UK Government be indeed work at pace to position the UK as a global leader in the rapidly grow SAF industry , which be vital for decarbonise aviation and our aviation industry , and for grow our economy . will he commit in the forthcoming sustainable aviation fuel Bill to bring forward the timeline for the revenue certainty mechanism to the end of this year or perhaps early 2026 ? accelerate that measure , which have wide support , will give investor the confidence they need to back the 10 potential SAF facility across the UK , include in Grangemouth , which be near my constituency . I thank my hon . friend , who have be a huge campaigner for Grangemouth . we have commit to bring forward the revenue certainty mechanism . we have already legislate for a 2 % fuel mix in the SAF mandate , which come into force on 1 January this year , and we look forward to the Bill come before the House when parliamentary time allow . I thank the Minister for his answer . I know that he have a deep interest in Northern Ireland , so may I ask a similar question ? Northern Ireland want to provide the necessary aviation fuel and have the ability to do so . what progress have he make in his discussion with the Northern Ireland Assembly to ensure that we can be part of the future of this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , which be always well together ? the hon . member be a doughty champion of air travel and SAF in Northern Ireland . through the advanced fuel fund , we have 13 project and we be currently invest well over £ 100 million across the UK to see what come forward in the market , and I hope that Northern Ireland will be integral to that process . I call the shadow Minister . may I , too , wish the Minister a very happy birthday ? estimate suggest that the SAF mandate provision and the revenue certainty mechanism will still leave a shortfall , with a family of four face over £ 300 extra to fly on holiday by 2040 . that be a clear concern for consumer , as well as the airline industry . net zero should not come at an additional cost to consumer or undermine freedom — in this case , the freedom to fly . the test must surely be how to defossilise , decarbonise and allow people to do the same at the same cost . what step be the Minister take in conjunction with the Treasury to close the financial gap between incentive in the mandate and the actual increase cost of switch to SAF for the end consumer ? I think the good will end with " happy birthday . " I remind the shadow Minister that a little over 12 month ago , in one of his well video , the then Prime Minister come out into Downing Street , look at the sky and laud the policy he want when we see Virgin Atlantic ' s 100 % SAF trip across the Atlantic . this be the previous Government ' s policy but , because of the sclerotic nature of that Government , we be only now get on with implement both the SAF mandate and the revenue support mechanism . as the shadow Minister know , a regular review point be bake into the legislation so that we can revisit target , if require . of course , there be always another way . much of the debate so far on SAF have be about fuel make from feedstock and waste product . unlike fuel that require feedstock , whose input cost will only ever go up , the industrial process that create power - to - liquid synthetic aviation fuel will actually see its production cost reduce , with some predict cost parity between the production of these synthetic fuel and the extraction and production of fossil fuel within a decade . do the Minister agree that synthetic offer a much well long - term solution , and will he reprioritise the Government ' s approach to SAF away from transitional solution and towards synthetic ? the hon . Gentleman run his car on synthetic fuel , so I know his passion . there be many way to get to SAF . the SAF mandate be support by industry , and there be a real opportunity to establish a plethora of production . we can create thousand of new well - pay job while protect the pound in the holidaymaker ' s pocket . Rail Passenger Compensation whether she have make an assessment of the potential merit of compensation for rail passenger in Cheltenham due to the impact of the Old Oak Common station development . the Department continue to work closely with the rail industry to minimise the disruption to passenger on the great western main line during the new station ' s construction and operation . our priority be to mitigate the impact on passenger , as far as possible , by invest £ 30 million for service continuity during period of disruption . the Secretary of State ' s constituent will also be affect . compensation come in many form . it may be in the form of well wi - fi on train to improve the service for business user . it may be in the form of more rolling stock to end the bizarre practice of run half - length train out of Paddington at peak time . and it may be in the form of an investigation into how we can reduce the ridiculous turnaround time at Gloucester station that delay Cheltenham passenger so much . I hope the Minister will confirm that all these thing be be look into for passenger in my constituency and the Secretary of State ' s constituency . the Rail Minister have meet mp from both side of the House to discuss this issue and have attend an industry programme board to ensure that passenger interest be consider and that disruption be minimise for passenger , both during and after construction . 2025 be an exciting year for Derby , partly because of the progress on great British Railways , which will be headquarter in Derby , and rightly so . can we also make this the year that the british public fall in love again with rail travel , by give GBR a strict timetable to simplify complicated ticketing and fare and to implement digital pay - as - you - go , as well as automatic compensation ? order . I be not sure that fit the original question . we have probably stray too far . Railway Capacity what step she be take to increase railway capacity . transport be central to this Government ' s plan for rebuild Britain and grow our economy . we be commit to invest in the rail capacity need to support that growth . this mean improve performance and timetable to make the good use of the capacity we have , but it also mean invest in new and improved infrastructure , such as High Speed 2 , the trans - Pennine route upgrade and East West Rail . I thank the Secretary of State for her answer and welcome she to her place . Ely Junction be a major bottleneck in our rail network and the Ely area capacity enhancement scheme be design to improve that . if the scheme go ahead , it could deliver over a quarter of a million extra rail passenger journey and take 98 , 000 lorry journey off the road every year . it will also help the midland and the north grow their economy , because it will improve freight transport to and from port , the midland and the north . to add to all those benefit , the business case stack up : every pound invest will deliver nearly £ 5 of benefit . will the Minister — Order . the question be far too long — I think the hon . Lady need to secure an Adjournment debate on the subject . the Secretary of State can grasp the sense of the question . I understand how passionately the hon . Lady feel about the scheme , and the Under - Secretary of State for Transport , my hon . friend the Member for Wakefield and Rothwell ( Simon Lightwood ) respond to her write parliamentary question on the subject at the end of November . project like this one , in area like hers , have the potential to contribute to the Government ' s plan to deliver economic growth . she will know that the spending review be come up , so a decision on the scheme and any potential timetable will be subject to the outcome of that review . I call the Chair of the Transport Committee . I welcome the Secretary of State to her place and I look forward to work with she . the original vision for HS2 be to link London with the midland and the north , and to address the grow capacity challenge on the west coast main line with a whole new rail line . the last Government panic and mothball much of the project because of cost overrun on phase 1 , thus incur yet further cost . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s commitment to get a grip on the phase 1 cost overrun , but do the Government plan to deliver a rail solution link phase 1 , north of Birmingham , to the rest of the country , thus deliver the Government ' s vision to drive growth for the whole country ? I congratulate my hon . friend on her election as Chair of the Transport Committee . she will be formidable and I look forward to work with she . I be pleased that my hon . friend raise the question of the mess we inherit from the Conservative Government on hs2 and rail connectivity in the north . when we enter Government in July , we find a rag - bag collection of half - baked , unfunded spending commitment for rail scheme up and down the country . the previous Government draw up their Network North plan on the back of a napkin . as part of the spending review , we have start the hard work of identify a realistic pipeline of scheme that be affordable and will deliver well connectivity in partnership with local leader . I call the spokesperson for the Liberal Democrat party . I welcome the Secretary of State to her new position . my party know she well from her hard work on London ' s transport network . we look forward to continue the constructive relationship we have with she then and with her predecessor in this House . may I take this opportunity to express my sadness at the passing of my liberal Democrat transport colleague , Baroness Jenny Randerson ? Jenny be a force of nature , intelligent , kind , hard - work and principle , with a mischievous wit and love of life . I learn a huge amount from she in the few month we work together , and will miss she deeply . improve transport link to Wales be an issue close to Baroness Randerson ' s heart , and one she regularly press in the other House . will the Secretary of State review the Tories ' decision to class hs2 as an England and Wales project , thus deprive Wales of billion of pound of Barnett formula funding , and will she commit to a high - speed rail link from Birmingham to Crewe to ensure that mid and north Wales can at least share the benefit of hs2 ? may I extend my condolence and those of the Government to the family of Baroness Randerson ? I know she be a deeply love and highly respected colleague to many . on the hon . Gentleman ' s substantive question , I have already meet Ken Skates , the Welsh Minister for Transport , and I be work closely with the Secretary of State for Wales to ensure that we bring public transport improvement to Wales , which I hope will be Baroness Randerson ' s last legacy . Pokesdown Station what step she be take to improve accessibility at Pokesdown railway station . south Western Railway have be work closely with Network Rail and the local authority to provide a viable scheme that will result in the installation of new lift at the station . to establish the likely cost of the scheme and assess affordability , detailed design work be under way and be expect to be finalise in 2025 . I thank the Minister for that very helpful answer . the people of Pokesdown be certainly very keen for their lift , which they have be wait a long time for . back in the 1980 and 1990 , train service between Bournemouth and London Waterloo take the historically fast time of 90 minute . will the Minister meet I and South Western Railway to discuss whether we can restore that fast time , as well as to discuss Pokesdown ? there be no current plan to introduce an express service between Bournemouth and London , but I will keep my hon . Friend update on the future plan regard South Western Railway , which will become the first operator to be take back into public ownership in May . the resident of Wareham , just along the way from Bournemouth , have be wait more than 20 year for electronic gate — order . this be a very niche question . it be a very niche question , and I want to ask about the next railway line along from Bournemouth . in which case , it do not count . thank you for that clarification . let we go to topical question . topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . transport be at the heart of this Government ' s plan for change . since I join the Department more than a month ago , we have introduce the Bus Services Bill , which will give transport authority across the country the tool to take back control of local service . we be bring clarity and confidence to our automotive industry , with a consultation on how we will restore the 2030 phase - out date for new petrol and diesel car . we have also confirm the first three train operator that will be bring under public control later this year . we have deliver record funding to protect vital bus route and keep fair cap , and we smash our manifesto target with a £ 1 . 6 billion investment to repair 7 million more pothole on Britain ' s break road . I be determined that our transport system deliver reliable , accessible journey for all ; enable the construction of million of new home ; support the job and industry of the future ; and enable rise living standard for everyone in every part of Britain . on those new bus route , within the last hour , Stagecoach East have issue a statement about the delay new tiger bus route , cite the decision by Cambridgeshire and Peterborough combine authority to retender the route , inconsistency in the award letter , concern over the legality of the operation and the increase cost due to the Government ' s national insurance increase as reason for the delay until at least May . do the Secretary of State share my concern that bus service in Cambridgeshire and Peterborough be not be manage effectively by the labour mayor ? I be happy to speak far with the hon . Gentleman about his concern regard local bus service . I know how critical bus service be for young people want to get to school , people want to get to work and old people want to access vital lifeline service . I be happy to meet he to talk in more detail about his local concern . in Barrow and Furness , we often joke that we live at the end of the long cul - de - sac in the UK . the a590 and the A595 be lifeline for people in my constituency . our future growth , the nuclear deterrent and the emergency service depend on the road work well , but we be often cut off . will the Minister therefore confirm the Government ' s commitment to invest in the improved reliability of such critical piece of infrastructure ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to highlight the importance of those road to her constituent . I be work closely with National Highways and hold it to account for those part of the road network , as well as work with local authority to ensure that road be reliable , well maintain and available . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I be appal to discover this morning that I have know the Secretary of State for the thick end of two decade . we have have various exchange in various other forum , but this be our first exchange across the Dispatch Box in this House . I therefore warmly congratulate she on her appointment and welcome she to her place . the Government promise to deliver more reliable rail service , but over Christmas , what do we see ? Chaos , cancellation and delay . the train driver , have accept the Government ' s no - string pay deal , choose to turn down overtime shift , leave passenger strand and leave in the cold . the Government ' s no - string agreement be suppose to bring stability to the railway , but it do the exact opposite , cause major disruption . will the Secretary of State admit that the pay deal that they think would improve reliability in fact only make service bad ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for his kind word . I remember those day on the London Councils transport and environment committee . I hope he do not mind my say that both he and I have a little bit more grey hair since then , which be not necessarily help by this new job . on the substance of the hon . Gentleman ' s question , I must vehemently disagree with he . the reality be that this Government act when the previous one refuse to do so , to put an end to the industrial action that be blight our railway . we have a two - year national rail strike that ground down everyone who travel or work on the railway , at a cost of £ 850 million in lose revenue . he might take a lesson from the former Conservative Rail Minister , the former Member for Bexhill and Battle — we be on topical . the former Minister take to social medium and apologise — order . I say to the Secretary of State gently that I have want to welcome she today , but I have to get through a lot of member . we be on topical , which be short and punchy . I call the shadow Secretary of State to give we a good example . I note the Secretary of State ' s answer , but , in the real world , we know that the Government ' s union paymaster will keep push for more . labour ' s plan to scrap the minimum service level will give the union more power to hold the railway hostage . do the Secretary of State accept that the Christmas chaos will not be a one - off , and will in fact be the start of an ongoing decline in reliability ? we have have decade of chaos on the railway , and railway that simply do not work for people . what be need be a fundamental reset with the trade union to deliver improvement for passenger service . from 7 November to 7 December , Northern Rail cancel 460 service across the Tyne , Tees and wear region . an average of 20 service a day be either cancel or short - form during this period . this be topical . I know . will the Secretary of State facilitate a meeting with the Rail Minister to put in place an urgent action plan and address the issue of staff shortage ? I know you could go on , but I be sure the Minister can answer that . I , along with the Rail Minister , will be meet the management of Northern Rail before the end of this month . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . last week , the Government ramp up bus fare by 50 % . the previous Government commission a full impact assessment , which be complete last year , on the abolition of the £ 2 bus fare cap . in November , the Under - Secretary of State for Transport , the hon . member for Wakefield and Rothwell ( Simon Lightwood ) promise the House that he would release the report , but nothing have appear . I ask the Secretary of State , what be her Minister hiding and when will the report be release ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . I can assure he that the report will be release in due course . on the subject of bus , can the Secretary of State set out the step her Department be take to allow local community to take back control through their elect representative , so that NHS trust , local authority and private provider increase the frequency and improve the practicality of bus service to and between local hospital ? do she agree that this will help elderly and vulnerable people and those without car to well access the NHS , minimise stress and financial difficulty ? we know how important local bus service be to community . our reform of the bus sector , combine with £ 1 billion of investment , will ensure that local leader have the necessary tool to ensure that bus service truly reflect the need of passenger . over the past few week , I have see at first hand how business on WhatsApp group be use bot to buy up drive test and then sell they at £ 250 or more . that be even after the Government ' s change that come into force on Monday this week . what further step can the Secretary of State take to stop that practice ? the hon . member be right to raise concern about these appalling practice that be be use to rip off learner driver . to help with this , we announce a call for evidence on the current rule and process , and we will be work hard to eliminate the bot and make sure that learner driver get a proper deal . under the previous Government , bus service in rural area be decimate . the number of bus journey in the Derbyshire Dales decline by 55 % between 2010 and 2023 . what step be the Minister take to stop further cut to bus service in rural area like the Derbyshire Dales . I thank my hon . friend for his question . a total of £ 1 billion be announce in the Budget for bus service , which will be available to his local transport authority to invest in area , include rural area , to ensure that bus service be accessible , regular and affordable . a Thame to Haddenham cycleway would transform how resident of Thame get to the local railway station . however , active travel funding from central Government be essential to get such scheme off the ground . will the Secretary of State commit to increase the active travel budget beyond what have be announce to truly revolutionise rural cycling ? the hon . member will be aware that close to £ 100 million be announce in the recent Budget . we will work closely with Active Travel England to ensure that that money be put to good effect across the country . the nationalisation of ScotRail have be another SNP transport fiasco . the Scottish Government ' s flagship £ 25 million scheme to boost the amount of freight transport by rail fail to achieve growth . their mismanagement of ScotRail and their own budget have lead to a double - whammy price hike for passenger , with the return of peak fare at the same time as price rise . do the Secretary of State agree that , at a time when we need well train to boost growth and reduce emission , the SNP have instead consign Scotland to a spiral of decline and let my constituent down ? I agree . we will not make the same mistake when we take train operating company into public ownership . we will do it properly . it be a massive undertaking , but we will make our railway a system for the whole country to be proud of . since Brexit and the reinstatement of duty - free shopping , UK traveller have spend nearly 50 % more on their duty - free shopping , all in the EU . not a penny have support job or investment in scottish airport , or those in the wide UK . do the Minister agree that a way to repatriate those sale and support the travel sector to invest in job at international gateway would be introduce arrival duty free , and will he work with the Treasury and the travel sector to achieve that ? change make during the pandemic crippled airport duty - free shopping . I will get the hon . member a more detailed letter on the matter . York ' s advanced digital and advanced rail cluster can really boost our economy with the innovation that it be bring , as well as provide 5 , 500 job in York . will the Secretary of State meet I to discuss how we can bring it into her strategy for develop the rail industry ? I will . I know that my hon . friend represent the proud railway city of York , as I represent the proud railway town of Swindon . I look forward to have that meeting with she . the Skipton East Lancashire Rail Action Partnership campaign group have long be advocate , as have I , for a new rail link between Skipton and Colne , because it will bring huge benefit to the like of Keighley , for both freight and passenger . will the Secretary of State meet I to discuss this long ongoing campaign that I have be advocate for ? I would be happy to . in South Shields , not only be our public transport expensive , we have to suffer constant metro delay , tunnel closure and replacement bus breakdown . this Christmas , our road be completely cut off . will my right hon . friend please meet I to discuss these long - stand ongoing issue ? I would be happy to meet my hon . friend . I have already meet a number of member of Parliament in the Gateshead area about some of the recent problem with the flyover , and meet the Mayor for the region . when HS2 be cancel , the last Government set aside £ 1 billion for Teesside to protect our iconic transporter bridge , deliver a new train station for Teesside Park , upgrade the train station at Thornaby , and much more . we be six month in now . can the Secretary of State tell I whether we will get the money , or be the Labour party pull the plug on investment in Teesside ? we be six month in . the conservative party have 14 year . those promise be worth nothing without a plan to deliver . in Hastings , Rye and the village , we have some of the bad pothole in the country , so I welcome the record £ 21 million award to east Sussex to fill pothole . will the Secretary of State join I in call on Conservative - run East Sussex county council to fill the pothole , and ensure that Hastings and Rye get its fair share of that funding ? my hon . friend be a doughty campaigner for her local area , and I fully endorse her effort to get money to fix the broken road in her constituency . in Hale and Badshot Lea , in the northernmost part of my constituency , many resident can only get into Farnham town centre use the bus service . there be concern , give the increase amount of building , and future building under the new Government ' s plan , that bus service will not be adequate . will the Minister meet I to discuss the plan for north Farnham , and Badshot Lea and Hale ? bus be of course the most commonly use mode of public transport in Britain , and the lifeblood of our community . I will be more than happy to meet the hon . member . while welcome rail renationalisation , may I ask what can be do to expedite investment in crucial rail infrastructure development , such as the Haughley junction in my constituency , take traffic off the A14 and possibly facilitate Bury St Edmunds to London train ? be the previous Prime Minister ' s promise to redeploy fund from the cancel hs2 realistic ? we spend about £ 2 billion a year on rail enhancement project . we will be look carefully through the spending review at all proposal that get freight off the road and increase the availability of passenger service . I be delighted to see that you be proudly wear the newly form Royal Army Medical Service tie , Mr Speaker . in Solihull West and Shirley , the new year have be welcome by increase in bus fare and reduction in service . in place such as Cheswick Green , people be face with choose between either more expensive and difficult journey or not be able to get to work , the shop or college . give the Government ' s state ambition , what assessment have the Minister make of the economic impact of the policy ? conservative Members have no plan or funding put aside to continue with the bus fare cap beyond 2024 . we have secure £ 151 million to ensure that bus remain affordable for many . in some area , without that intervention fare could have rise by as much as 80 % . I welcome the Secretary of State to her place . in my first public meeting after my election , resident in Knebworth call for more fast train service . we get some , but there have be poor reliability . will she meet I to discuss those issue ? yes , I think I will have a busy diary come up . we have an anomalous situation in Spelthorne whereby someone can get six London red bus on an Oyster card , but they can not get the train out to the station at the end of the line . major employer , such as BP and Shepperton Studios , be send bus up the line to bring down those people who can not use an Oyster card . as the Secretary of State will own South Western Railway and be brilliant with Transport for London , could she please get Spelthorne into the Oyster zone ? we be explore how we can extend pay - as - you - go to other station in the south - east . I must admit that my mental map be not good enough to identify every station yet , but we share that ambition to make it easy for people to use the railway across the south - east region . this weekend , grassroots campaigner in Newquay will meet to oppose the privatisation of car park charge enforcement in Newquay and Cornwall more widely . will the Secretary of State and colleague in the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government meet I to discuss how council can retain more of that profit locally , instead of send it up - country to often unscrupulous and usurious operator ? I thank my hon . friend for raise the concern , and I would be happy to meet he to discuss the issue far . the resident of Wareham , just along from Bournemouth , have be try to get electronic gate for 20 year . Network Rail ' s late excuse be that it be for the Office of Rail and Road , and the Office of Rail and Road say that it be for Network Rail . will the Secretary of State meet I so that we can bang head together and get this resolve once and for all ? I will certainly ask the Rail Minister to take that meeting . pavement parking be a massive issue in many of our town and city , particularly for people face with sight loss and for parent try to push buggy . all of we here benefit from the pavement parking ban in London , but give that it be over four year since the consultation close , be it time to give town and city across England the power to enforce a pavement parking ban if they so wish ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to raise this problem . we will publish a formal response to the consultation , which the previous Government shamefully fail to act on . we will announce next step for pavement parking policy in England in due course . upgrading Ely junction would deliver more passenger service to King ' s Lynn in my constituency , boost freight and unlock benefit of £ 5 for every £ 1 invest . will the Secretary of State confirm whether that be a priority in the Department ' s bid for the spending review ? we be work on a whole range of scheme in respect of the spending review , and I will provide the hon . gentleman with more information as soon as I have it . last year , Derbyshire be judge to be the bad county in the country for pothole , so one would think that the county council would welcome the record £ 76 million investment into our road . can the Minister assure I that that money will make a real difference to our road and pave the way for a well Britain ? undoubtedly . public Finances : borrowing cost ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer if she will make a statement on the grow pressure of borrowing cost on the public finance . where be she ? I be always grateful to see conservative Members welcome I to the House . financial market be always evolve , as the shadow Chancellor know , so there be a long - stand convention that the Government do not comment on specific financial market movement , and I will not break that convention today . financial market movement , include change in Government bond or gilt yield , which represent the Government ' s borrowing cost , be determine by a wide range of international and domestic factor . it be normal for the price and yield of gilt to vary when there be wide movement in global financial market , include in response to economic datum . in recent month , move in financial market have be largely drive by datum and global geopolitical event , which be to be expect as market adjust to new information . UK gilt market continue to function in an orderly way . underlying demand for the UK ' s debt remain strong , with a generally well - diversify investor base . the Debt Management Office ' s gilt sale operation continue to see strong demand . the late auction , hold yesterday , receive three time as many bid as the amount on offer . the Chancellor have commission from the Office for Budget Responsibility an update economic and fiscal forecast for 26 March incorporate the late datum . only the OBR ' s forecast can accurately predict the effect on the public finance of any change in financial market or the economy , and I will not pre - empt that forecast . there should be no doubt of the Government ' s commitment to economic stability and sound public finance . that be why meet the fiscal rule be non - negotiable . may I end by say that I be pleased that the shadow Chancellor be hold this government to account on our stewardship of the economy ? it be important that he do so . he will remember when his party crash the economy with unfunded tax cut , unrealistic public spending plan and a clear disregard for the consequence on family finance . family across the country be still pay the price for the Conservatives ' disastrous performance on the economy through high mortgage and bill . if there be one clear reason why the conservative party suffer such an historic defeat at the last general election , it be their performance on the economy . that be presumably why the shadow Chancellor himself admit in December that the lack of trust in the conservative party ' s management of the economy have leave a " deep and painful scar " in the pocket of every person across Britain . let I tell the House what have change . in our first six month , this Labour Government have expose the £ 22 billion black hole in the public finance . not only have we expose it , but we have deal with it : the Chancellor ' s autumn Budget protect work people , wipe the slate clean of the mess the conservative party leave the country in , and invest in our NHS and school . we have give the independent Office for Budget Responsibility enhance power of oversight , in law , so that we never again get into the situation where that lot leave the country : a £ 22 billion black hole in the public finance . we have set tough new fiscal rule that be non - negotiable , with a budget settlement for public service that they must all live within . we have kick - start growth in this country — this Government ' s no . 1 mission — by unlock investment and bring forward reform , such as those to plan and in the Mansion House speech . may I say to the shadow Chancellor that that work stand in stark contrast to the negligent and shameful horror of a circus performance that the conservative party in government unleash on this country only a few year ago ? until he can come to the House with an apology for the british people , I will not take any lecture from the conservative party about how to run the economy . I call the shadow Chancellor of the Exchequer . the performance we have just see be a slightly anxious and breathless one , which lead I to the question : where be the Chancellor ? it be a bitter regret that at this difficult time and give these serious issue , she herself be nowhere to be see . in the last 48 hour , borrowing cost have reach a 27 - year high , and it be the Chancellor ' s decision that have lead we here . before the election , the right hon . Lady promise that Labour would get debt fall , would not fiddle the figure , would not raise taxis and would grow the economy , but the economy be now flatline . survey after survey be show that business confidence have simply evaporate , and at the Budget , the Chancellor hike up taxis , increase borrowing by an average of £ 32 billion a year across the forecast , and conveniently adjust her fiscal rule to allow she to do so . high debt and low growth be understandably now cause real concern among the public , among business and in the market , and despite what the Chief Secretary have say about international factor , the premium on our borrowing cost compare with german bond recently hit its high level since 1990 . with those rise cost , regrettably , the Government may now be on course to breach their fiscal rule . the Chancellor have commit to no further tax rise , so do the right hon . Gentleman stand by her commitment not to increase taxis even far ? if so , do that mean that the public should expect cut to public service spending if the OBR judge that her fiscal headroom have evaporate ? there be medium report that the Chancellor will make an emergency intervention to soothe market , but with no confirmation that such a statement will occur in this House . will the right hon . Gentleman confirm that any such statement will be make first to member in this House ? rate on Government bond ultimately feed through to the broad credit market , so what estimate have the Treasury make of how recent market movement will impact mortgage cost and lend across the economy ? I will make one final point , Mr Speaker . every pound that we spend on debt interest be money that we can not spend on the public ' s priority . the Government ' s decision to let rip on borrowing mean that their own tax rise will end up be swallow up by high borrowing cost , at no benefit to the british people . far from this government lay the foundation for a strong economy , the Chancellor be squander the endeavour of million of hard - work people up and down our country , who be now have to pay the price for yet another socialist Government tax and spend their way into trouble . do the right hon . Gentleman not now accept that it be time to change course ? I be pleased that the right hon . Gentleman enjoy my performance — I have not even have my first cup of coffee yet this morning . let I answer some of his question . [ interruption . ] conservative member might like to listen , if the question be so important to they . the right hon . Gentleman ask I about the fiscal rule . as I say in my statement , those rule be non - negotiable . as the Chancellor set out at the Budget , we have two fiscal rule : first , that day - to - day spending should be meet by tax receipt , and secondly , that debt should be fall as a share of the economy . the right hon . Gentleman talk about the debt burden that this country have . maybe we should reflect a little on why we have so much debt — [ interruption . ] from pre - pandemic , Mr Speaker . let we look at the burden of debt inherit by this Government from the Conservatives . from 2010 onwards , why do the last Government have to borrow so much money every single month , not just to invest but to pay the day - to - day bill ? because of an absolute failure to get growth into the economy . they could not make the number add up . they stack up the country ' s credit card and leave it to the Labour party to deal with , and we be go to deal with it . that be why those fiscal rule be non - negotiable , and it be why public spending will be within the number set out at the Budget . we be start the spending review now , and it will conclude in June . public service will have to live within their mean — the Chancellor have be very clear about that . that be why with this government , you get economic stability and absolute clarity on public spending . that be why the british people trust this party and boot that lot out of office . I call the Chair of the Treasury Committee . we all know that fiscal rule and certainty be vital for the market and the good stewardship of the public finance , so will the Chief Secretary to the Treasury explain what process he will be go through as he conduct the spending review , and what notice he will give to Departments about extra cut that they may have to make in order to meet the fiscal rule ? in addition , when the Chancellor come in front of the House for the OBR forecast in March , will she be make a fiscal statement at that point ? I thank the Chair of the Select Committee for her question . as the House know , we have start the second phase of the spending review , to set public sector budget from 2026 - 27 onwards . the Chancellor confirm in a write ministerial statement before the House rise for Christmas that there will be a forecast from the OBR and a statement on 26 March . as I say in my response , that will be the next time the OBR will give a view about the UK economy and the level of funding for public service . between the OBR forecast in March and the conclusion of the spending review in June , the House will be update in the normal way . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I recognise that the Chancellor have a very difficult job . she inherit an economy on its knee , follow the Conservatives ' mismanagement of the economy , from their terrible trade deal — [ interruption . ] that extend from their terrible trade deal with Europe , which be hold back business in Wokingham , to soar inflation , stagnant growth and the Liz Truss mini - Budget , which hit so many mortgage holder across the country . however , the Government seem to be repeat some of the same mistake . last night , the Treasury issue a statement say that " meet the fiscal rule be non - negotiable " . will the Chief Secretary reassure this House that protect the NHS and care be also non - negotiable , and will he rule out any cut to those service as the Government try to balance the book ? will he work to repair our tie with Europe and cut trade - relate red tape , especially in the face of Donald Trump and his oligarch ally such as Elon Musk ? I thank the hon . member for his question . he will note from the Prime Minister ' s plan for change that the NHS be the subject of one of this Government ' s key commitment , with commitment to get the elective waiting list down and to invest in the national health service so that we can do so . he will have hear that from the Chancellor at the Budget in the autumn , and he will see that it be a continued commitment from this Government . we can do that because of our commitment to the fiscal rule and because of our investment to grow the economy , which be the only route to long - term , sustainable public financing . the hon . Member be very rudely groan at by Conservative Members , but when it come to their performance on the economy , it be not they who should be groan , but the british people who should be groan at they for what they do to their family finance . US bond rate be rise as well as those in the UK , with high than expect inflation and interest rate . I note that Conservative Members have not mention that ; perhaps they have not look . the good way to make our debt sustainable be to invest to get growth grow , and to get expect inflation down by invest in clean energy . do the Minister agree that our plan to invest in growth and in low - price , clean energy be exactly the way to make our debt sustainable ? my hon . friend know very well that this Government ' s approach have be about stability , investment and reform : the stability we have bring follow the chaos of the year under the conservative party , as have be recognise by the british people and by the market ; the investment we have be unlock , from our global investment summit all the way through to the work we have be do in the Budget and since ; and the reform we be bring forward — for example , plan reform — to make sure we can deliver infrastructure well in this country and unlock the investment that private capital have want to put forward in the UK for many year , but could not because of the chaos from the Conservatives when they be last in government . I call the Father of the House . on 6 November , the Chancellor say : " we have now set the envelope for spend for this Parliament , and we be not go to be come back with more tax increase or , indeed , with more borrowing . " I be sure , because the Chancellor be an honourable lady , that she will not be open that envelope , put her sticky finger inside and come out with more borrowing or tax increase . will the Minister give an absolute assurance of no more tax increase or borrowing ? I can absolutely assure the Father of the House that we be work through this spending review on the basis of the envelope set at the Budget . public service will have to operate within the mean that we be provide to they . the OBR forecast will come in March , which will give we the late set of information , and we will work to that with Departments . this be why we have set up organisation such as the Office for Value for Money , why we have set tough productivity and efficiency target for Departments and why we be invest in , for example , technology to improve the productivity of the public service we provide . public service must live within their mean , as set out in the Budget , and that be an absolute guarantee from this Government . I thank the Chief Secretary for his response . I have just sit through Transport question , or some of they , during which I repeatedly hear call for more spending from Conservative Members , but they oppose every single tax rise to pay for that spending . do the Chief Secretary agree that one of the lesson from global development in recent day be that we must pay for day - to - day public spending through tax rise , however tough that be ? I very much agree with my hon . friend . we have to pay day - to - day bill with the income we generate day to day . the lesson that we learn from the opposition be about what they be happy to do , but this Government be not . they be happy to announce plan and programme to make promise to the british people , even though they know they do not have the money to pay for it . that will never happen under this Labour Government . when the Chancellor set the envelope for spend for this Parliament , and say to the Treasury Committee on 6 November that she would not come back for more tax increase or more borrowing , that be base on her assumption about the cost of borrowing . those be manifestly in significant doubt , to look at it in the most charitable way . I have sit in the Chief Secretary ' s position , and I know he will want to equivocate and push decision to the next OBR assessment and the next fiscal event , but the truth be surely this : this Government have to cut spending , increase taxis or borrow more . if the cost of borrowing be increase , that moment will come soon . which of those choice be he inclined to make , and when will he tell the british people honestly what this Government have do ? I have be clear to the House , as have the Chancellor , that the fiscal rule be non - negotiable . public service will have to live within their mean . we set the Budget in the autumn last year , and we have the OBR forecast come in March . those be the number that department be work to in the spending review , and those be the number that we will hold public service to when we conclude the spending review in June . we think we know the dire economic situation when the general election be call , but on enter government , we find the real consequence of the previous Tory Government ' s addiction to unfunded spending announcement . the people of Newcastle upon Tyne Central and West be pay the consequence for the Truss - Kwarteng economic crash . with the imminent entry into the White House of a President also commit to significant unfunded tax cut , the economic stability of the UK become even more important . will my right hon . friend confirm that this Government be absolutely committed to fiscal responsibility and rise living standard , and that the plan for growth will deliver both ? I thank the Chair of the Science , Innovation and Technology Committee for her question . she will know that our first commitment in the Labour party manifesto at the last election be to fiscal responsibility . it be the bedrock of this Government and the bedrock of every decision we take . as the Prime Minister set out in his plan for change , the reason people will know the difference that a Labour Government make be that they will have more money in their pocket by the end of this Parliament than when it start . in yesterday ' s extraordinary emergency statement from the Treasury to try to calm the market , it pay tribute to the fact that the Government inherit the second - low debt in the G7 . be the reason the Government Front Bench be so empty today and the Chancellor have flee to China that she have realise that her Budget mean she now be the arsonist ? I must say I be rather surprised by the inflammatory language of the former Chair of the Treasury Committee , which be clearly no reflection of reality . the Chancellor be go on her trip to China . it have be well document for many week , and it be an important visit for trade and investment in the UK economy . may I say that there be no emergency statement or emergency intervention ? those be make - believe word be propagate by Opposition Members . the Treasury respond to request from journalist about headroom , as we might do in the normal way . there be no need for any emergency intervention , and there have not be one . one would think , from listen to Opposition Members , that they have not crash our economy and preside over high taxis , high debt and fall living standard , which affect my constituent and , I expect , some of theirs , too . [ interruption . ] that be the Tory cycle . will the Minister confirm that the route out of that be growth , and that remain our no . 1 mission ? my hon . friend be right . may I offer some probably unwelcome advice to Opposition member ? the soon they stop groan and stop laugh about their performance when they be last in government , and the soon they apologise for it , the soon the british people might start listen to they again . public service be at break point after the previous Government ' s mishandle of the economy and budget locally . however , do the Minister recognise that scale back investment in vital public service risk even more devastating consequence for our local community ? at the autumn Budget , the Chancellor invest in frontline public service , because we recognise that people rely on they , but also because function public service be an important route to growth in the economy . if people be sick and can not get to work , they need to be able to see a doctor in a timely fashion , so that they can get back to work . that be the priority of this Government , as well as invest in modernise our public service , so that they be fit for the future . my constituent suffer real hardship as a result of the disastrous mini - Budget pursue by the Conservative party . do the Chief Secretary to the Treasury agree that in order to improve living standard for my constituent , we must stick to our fiscal rule , maintain fiscal discipline and invest in our public service ? I very much agree . that be why fiscal stability and economic responsibility be at the heart of this Labour Government and the Chancellor ' s agenda . member on the Opposition Benches may want to pay attention to that . there be no point beat around the bush : the Chancellor have just lose over £ 9 . 9 billion of headroom , and stand on the cusp of break her own fiscal rule . she say last year that she would not come back for more tax rise . will the Chief Secretary be honest and admit , just as the former Bank of England rate setter Martin Weale say today , that this leave only the option of more austerity ? will he level with people about when and where the next round of cut will fall ? as I say , the fiscal rule be non - negotiable . the only reliable source on future financing will be the OBR forecast on 26 March , the conclusion of the spending review in June , and the Budget , which the Chancellor will present in the autumn . the hon . Gentleman mention austerity , but I remind he that this Labour Government have give the Scottish Parliament the large real - term increase in funding since devolution . he should be grateful for that . this Labour Government have be in power for six month , and we be have to deal with 14 year of conservative chaos . do the Chief Secretary agree that the Government ' s plan for change , which aim to provide a stable economy and raise living standard in every part of the United Kingdom , and have economic growth as the no . 1 mission , be the right approach to ensure that the United Kingdom can weather the global uncertainty that we face ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . let I set out the difference that the british people will experience . at the end of 14 year of Conservative Government , they have high mortgage , high bill , a high cost of living and public service on their knee . at the end of this Labour Government , point towards the next general election , as set out in the Prime Minister ' s plan for change , they will have more money in their pocket , public service will be function again , and they will be proud once again of their government , and of the british economy . have listen very carefully to the right hon . Gentleman ' s response , I believe that he be make a more significant statement than many of his colleague might realise . by underline that there will not be any tax or borrowing increase , he be , in effect , say that austerity be back , because there be no way that the public finance can be remedie by another Budget of wishful thinking that pretend that increase borrowing and spending will produce growth . that be once again be prove by a Labour Government to be a false way of lead the economy . I be always grateful to the hon . gentleman for think that I be make such substantive intervention , and for his continued support in that respect . this be not austerity , as he will know full well . austerity be ideological cut to public financing and the size of the state . it be 3 % cut , irrespective of what that mean for public service or for people across the country . that be far from what the Chancellor unveil in her autumn Budget . that be the absolute opposite of austerity ; we increase financing for frontline public service , and will continue to do so . will the Chief Secretary outline the step that this Government have already take to fix the fiscal foundation and put this country on a strong footing for growth ? my hon . Friend ask an important question . why do we have to take that action ? why be this Government ' s first Bill about fiscal responsibility ? it be because of the mess that Conservative Members leave this country in . that be why we have give the Office for Budget Responsibility strong , independent power of oversight in statute — something that the shadow Chancellor presumably welcome , give his comment criticise Liz Truss and her budget when he be Chair of the Treasury Committee . we bring that change forward , which the conservative party fail to do . that be why we have set fiscal rule that be non - negotiable , why public service must live within their mean , and why the Government ' s absolute focus be on secure growth , investment , reform and long - term sustainability for public finance . be the Chief Secretary aware that the last two month ' gdp figure , for September and October , be both down ? be he aware that sterling be fall — in fact , almost collapse ? confidence be fall and investor be flee . the only thing go up be inflation , wasteful public spending and the cost of debt . be under no illusion : we be head towards a financial crisis . will he ask the Chancellor to return from her ridiculous trip to China , to reverse course , and to cut daft spending and wasteful regulation , so that we can create some growth ? I think the question be whether I be go to demand that the Chancellor come back from her trade trip to China . I will not , no . do the Chief Secretary agree that there be an irony in the Conservatives raise concern about the cost of borrowing , when they oversaw debt rise from 64 . 7 % of gdp to more than 96 % of GDP and leave a £ 22 billion unfunded black hole in public finance — and now continue to oppose the tough decision that we be make on tax and spend to fix their mess ? that be exactly why our fiscal rule be non - negotiable . while the conservative borrow to pay the bill every month because they do not have enough money to pay for all their promise , this Government be invest in the future of our country , whether through reform public service or invest in infrastructure and opportunity for growth . that be exactly the right approach to the economy ; it be what our fiscal rule demand , and what we will be hold to . next have say that it will increase price by 1 % , directly because of the increase to national insurance contribution , and have warn of slow growth . with business confidence plummeting , gilt at a 26 - year high and growth stagnate , do the Government still maintain that they have an iron grip on public finance , or will they admit that their Budget have do exactly what the Conservatives warn : increase cost , increase price and reduce growth ? the question be whether the Government have an iron grip on public finance ; the answer be yes . Meur ras ha myttin da , Mr Speaker . do the Chief Secretary agree that the only way that we can wrest the economy out of the clutch of the Conservatives ' doom loop be to go for growth ? the Government ' s new industrial strategy will be a core foundation underpin that growth . my hon . friend be absolutely right . our industrial strategy , through which we will invest alongside business and industry of the future , and our infrastructure strategy , which set out how we will get Britain build again , be two example of the Government play their part by bring economic and political stability . by , for example , reform the planning system , we will unlock billion of pound of private sector investment in UK plc — something that do not happen under the previous Government . I completely sympathise with the Chief Secretary about the incredible brass neck of the official Opposition . he talk about kick - start growth , but can he give we any evidence that growth have be kick - start ? do he not realise that the only way to kick - start growth in the near future be to re - engage with Europe ? the hon . Gentleman will know that this Government ' s approach to stimulate growth in the economy be about stability , investment and reform — the political and economic stability the Chancellor have bring to this country ; the investment from private sector partner , as well as from the state , where appropriate ; and the reform of policy area such as the planning system , or the financial service reform that the Chancellor set out in her Mansion House speech . he be also right , of course , that we need to improve our trading relationship with country around the world , which be why the Chancellor be go to China today , and why we have begin negotiation with our friend in the European Union on how we can improve our relationship on a whole host of issue , include trade , energy , defence and security . do the Chief Secretary agree that the Conservatives , have add gutter politic to their fantasy economic and unfunded spending commitment , can no long call themselves the party of decency in public life , and of sound money ? yes . it be deeply disappointing that the Chancellor be not here to answer question in the House on such an important topic , so I shall have to ask my question to the Chief Secretary to the Treasury instead . it be quite a simple one . will he stand by the Chancellor ' s comment that she will not come back with more tax increase ? I be sorry to disappoint the right hon . member , but I will answer the question none the less . she ask I whether I stand by the Chancellor ' s statement , and the answer be yes . I want we to get serious for a minute here . [ interruption . ] many of my constituent in North East Derbyshire , who will have just hear the guffawing from the opposition , have be really struggle with the cost of living crisis . they vote the Government in , and we be commit to restore the foundation of our economy . will the Minister assure I that we be do everything we can to deliver on that promise ? it be absolutely right that the Labour Government be bring fiscal and economic stability back to this country , because we know that when you play fast and loose with the nation ' s finance , you play fast and loose with family finance . that be what voter in every constituency experience when the Conservatives be last in government . they will not experience that under this Labour Government . we be look at high interest rate , low growth and a high cost of borrow to the Government ; as my hon . and right hon . friend have say , we be grateful to the Chief Secretary to the Treasury for be so honest with the House . it be clear that if he stick to his word , there will not be any more borrowing , or any more tax rise . give the number , that leave only one option : cut in public service . I wonder whether his colleague behind he on the government Benches realise that reality . what word other than " austerity " will he use to describe it ? as I have say , it seem that the conservative party be proud of its record on austerity . we do not support austerity , which be blind ideological cut to public service — 3 % cut — irrespective of the outcome for the people who rely on public service . the Chancellor increase investment in public service at the Budget in the autumn , and we will continue to increase investment in they , because we need to get they back on their foot , and they be an important foundation for economic growth . I be pleased that the right hon . Gentleman recognise my statement , and say that they be honest , because of course they be . I look forward to come back to the House in future month and year to show he the progress that the Government be make . it be a relief for I and my constituent in Doncaster Central that we finally have a Labour Government provide economic stability and invest in the industry of the future . [ interruption . ] it be all right for Conservative Members to chunter , but after the mess they make , a period of silence on their part be warrant . will my right hon . friend lie out the action that he will take to ensure that all region of the country , include place like Doncaster and South Yorkshire , benefit from growth ? my hon . friend be right to point out that the Government be in the service of work people . what do that mean ? it mean that people ' s live — the money they have in their pocket , and the ability to pay the bill , get a roof over their head and seek opportunity — be at the very heart of what it mean to be in the Labour party and in this Labour Government . conservative Members might not have suffer from high mortgage bill or worry about the cost of live during their supermarket shop each month , but people across the country do , and they suffer as a consequence of the Conservatives ' behaviour . I welcome my hon . friend ' s comment that they should have a period of silence while they learn the lesson . I think that I hear the Chief Secretary say that the Chancellor have not go to China . will he confirm first that she be still plan to go ? secondly , if she have not go to China yet , why be she not here ? lot of people would like to hear from she . thirdly , have the Chancellor talk to the Governor of the Bank of England about market turbulence at any point in the last seven day ? the Chancellor be go to China , as have be well document . again , I be sorry that it disappoint the hon . member that I be here . I refer he and his colleague to the urgent question , which be about a statement on borrowing cost and public finance . he will know that I be the Minister for public finance , which be why I be here answer his question . will the Chief Secretary to the Treasury confirm that the Government ' s no . 1 mission be still growth ? that be the only way that we can break out of the Tory inheritance of low growth , high borrowing , high taxis and squeeze living standard for people in my constituency in Livingston , and across the UK . my hon . friend be absolutely right . his constituent will know from their family finance that they can not just put the bill on the credit card every month without have a plan for how to pay it off . that be not a sustainable way to manage household finance , and it be the same for the country . one of the reason why we have such a mess leave to we by the conservative party be that it do just that — borrow money every month to pay for the day - to - day bill , and stack up the promise . that be why in the end there be so many promise and not enough pound to pay for they . that be not a way to run the economy or family finance . that be why fiscal responsibility be at the heart of the approach take by the Chancellor and the Government . we will never play fast and loose with the nation ' s finance , as the Conservative party do . accord to medium report today , the former Member of Parliament for South West Norfolk be issue cease and desist letter to those who have accuse she of crash the economy be careful or you might get one ! I hope not . member will be conscious that I be be very careful with my wording . I wonder whether the Chief Secretary might wish to take advantage of parliamentary privilege to compare and contrast the impact of her disastrous mini - Budget with what be be discuss today . you will correctly tell I , Mr Speaker , that it would not be right for I to comment on legal proceeding , but I be happy to say that one of the huge lesson for the country , for the british voting public and perhaps , one day , for the conservative party be that the action that the conservative party take be not just reckless and negligent , but have a direct impact on public finance in every single constituency . there be a direct connection : it be Conservative Ministers ' hubris , ego and lack of focus on work people that ruin the life of people across the country . I say that today and I will say it every day , because the british people must never forget the recklessness of the conservative party . I thank the Chief Secretary for his statement — order . it be an urgent question , not a statement . I be sorry , Mr Speaker . during these exchange on the urgent question alone , we have hear chuntere from Opposition Members about the cut in the winter fuel payment . we have hear they oppose the tax increase that have be introduce to pay for public spending , and we have hear they urge the Government to call off talk with economic partner include China . be it any wonder that the GDP - to - debt ratio rise by a full 30 percentage point under the Conservative Government ? it might have be legitimate for the Conservatives to say that their economic policy be to borrow for day - to - day cost — as they do . that could be a decision that they take . what be not forgivable be the fact that they reach a point at which they be make promise to the british people that they know they do not have the money to pay for , and that be where the £ 22 billion black hole come from . they should be ashamed of their record on the economy , and they should apologise to the british people . when will the Chief Secretary take responsibility for the action of his own government ? we have a general election , and that be when the public hold the previous Government to account . they give their verdict , and the Labour party be in power now . what the public want be accountability for this Government ' s reckless decision : the national insurance increase be an attack on job ; there have be an attack on the farming community ; and business confidence be at an all - time low . the right hon . Gentleman may not wish to reflect on his party ' s performance in government , but I be afraid he have to . although this be a new government — we have be in office for six month — the reality be that we be have to clear up the mess that the last Government leave we . that be why we have to talk about it , and explain to the country why the action take by the conservative party not only affected family finance , but decimate the british economy and push public service on to their knee . we be take responsibility for clear up their mess , and that be why we will keep talk about it . a key ingredient of economic growth have to be responsible government . People in Stevenage and across the country be still pay the price for 14 year of irresponsible government — the terrible decision , the mini - Budget — and now we have a party in opposition that still do not get it . opposition Members respond to this party ' s Budget by say that they accept the improvement in public service , but they would not say how they would pay for it . can my right hon . friend assure we that this Administration will be commit to responsible government for the rest of the parliamentary term ? yes , I can . there be no deny that the economic inheritance that we be give by the conservative party make life very difficult for we : it mean that we have to take difficult decision . the fiscal rule be non - negotiable and public service have to live within their mean because that be that the bedrock of any approach in government . be that go to be easy for we ? no , it be not , but it be part of our responsibility in clear up the mess leave by the Conservatives , and from that we can build for the future , as be set out in the Prime Minister ' s plan for change . the issue here be spend . will the Chief Secretary confirm that the labour manifesto say that a Labour Government would increase spending by £ 9 . 5 billion a year , and the Treasury Red Book be increase that to £ 76 billion ? be that not the issue ? one of the issue be that the conservative party make a whole list of unfunded spending commitment . they promise hospital and train station , they have unsettle pay dispute with public sector worker — I could go on and on . that be why the Chancellor take the decision at the Budget to wipe the slate clean , to deal with the mess that we inherit and then to bring forward the manifesto commitment that we set out at the election . if the hon . Gentleman wish to see more detail about our public spending plan , he be very welcome to come to my statement in June . conservative Members talk about economic stability , but they seem to have forget that they be swap out chancellor every five minute . do the Chief Secretary agree that it be this Government who be restore stability to our economy ? restore economic and political stability be important . when the market observe the behaviour of the conservative party in government , it be no wonder they do not want to invest in the UK , and that be why the market crash , to the detriment of work people across the country . it be very clear that under this Labour Government , not only do we have stable leadership ; we have a stable set of policy in our plan for change and fiscal responsibility as the bedrock for the Chancellor ' s action . that be a country people can believe in , trust in and invest in , unlike the country that be leave to we by the conservative party . every Labour Government leave office with unemployment higher and the economy in a bad condition than they inherit , but I think this Labour Government be take the record for do that the fast — within just six month , we see borrowing cost spiral out of control , GDP growth tank and the boss of some of the big recruitment firm in the UK warning of job posting plummet and that a recession be just around the corner . I look forward to see how the Chancellor spin this period of employment on her cv in the future . if the Government breach their own fiddled fiscal rule so ingloriously and so quickly , who on the Treasury Bench be go to update their cv and take responsibility ? the fiscal rule be non - negotiable , and they will be meet . do the Minister agree that the reckless ideological austerity measure take by the Conservative party in government have directly lead to my constituent be significantly bad off and make it hard for they to get on in Darlington ? can he outline the impact that the new Office for Value for Money will have on the huge inefficiency and waste that the last government preside over ? the Office for Value for money be an important part of our spending review process , as we undertake for the first time in 17 year a zero - base review of every single pound of public spending . we should focus on that for a moment : not once under the last Conservative Government be there a zero - base review . not once do they go line by line through every pound of taxpayer ' money and public spending to check it be be spend in the people ' s interest . not once do they think that be a responsible thing to do . that be the first thing we be do in government . at the back end of last year , borrowing figure be the second high monthly figure on record . that be in no small part drive by the Chancellor ' s decision to give inflation - bust pay rise to union . give that we have more union pay negotiation this year , should my constituent be brace for the Government give into those union demand , at risk to taxpayer ? I think the hon . Member might want to ask his constituent whether they appreciate their doctor and nurse be on strike for so long or whether they want they to be able to see their patient . he may want to ask his constituent whether they be grateful to have the train not work for so many month because the train driver be on strike . he may want to ask his constituent how pleased they be with the performance of their public service over the last 14 year of government . I think I know the answer they would give he . that be go to change under this Labour Government . on the economy , as with so much else , do my right hon . friend agree that Conservative Members should sip from the elixir of personal responsibility and that the two word we most need to hear from they be , " we apologise " ? that ' s not a question . order . Mr Stuart , I need no advice from you . I think you be on the Panel of Chairs , and I need to see some well behaviour if you be go to stay on it . thank you , Mr Speaker . it be important , when you be pay by the House , to act responsibly ; I agree with you . my hon . friend the Member for Rugby ( John Slinger ) make a really important point , and Conservative Members who have their head in their hand may wish to listen to he . it will be important for the Conservatives to apologise for their behaviour before the british people start listen to they again , but for as long as they wish to grunt and groan and claim that everything be wonderful , the well for we , so long may it continue . I have hear that the Minister be the future , but all he want to talk about be the past . the fact of the matter be that , today , borrowing cost be up , business confidence be down and growth be go nowhere . be it not time to admit that this lefty economic experiment be not work ? it be time to cut taxis and cut spending . I do not realise that the hon . Member know my mum and that I be apparently the future . it be very kind of he to say so ; very few have that in their thought . he talk about lefty experiment . fiscal responsibility be not a lefty ideology . economic responsibility be not a lefty ideological and political experiment ; it be what the british people expect . one of the reason why the Conservatives have such a historic defeat at the last election be that they lose all control and all sense when it come to the public finance . for a party that be supposedly the well - perform in western democracy , and which have have great leader in the past , be it not a great shame what the conservative party have become ? give its performance over 14 year and its descent into disinformation , I feel very sorry for Opposition Members . I hope that the Minister can quickly turn this situation around for my constituent and the country , and I wish he all the good in do so . give the challenge of business confidence and the market , I have hope that he would come to the House this morning with a plan that lay out the scope of the problem and the solution to fix it . instead , he have speak more about the conservative party , rather than Labour ' s plan for the economy . be that because the Chancellor be not here today ? when will she come back ? I be very happy to set out the Government ' s plan , as I have do repeatedly today . the hon . Member will have see in the Chancellor ' s Budget last autumn a clear plan to wipe the slate clean , to deal with the mess that we inherit , to protect work people , and to invest in our public service . he will have see it in the Prime Minister ' s plan for change , which set out the direction of this Government over the year ahead . we will put more money in work people ' s pocket across the country , get our public service back on their foot and make sure that this country be in a strong position . the hon . Member will know that the Government be work through our spending review , which I run as the responsible Minister . I have already confirm that we will come back in June to confirm the spending plan for Departments , which will have to live within their mean and in line with the fiscal rule in the year ahead . I can not think what more he would want . rise — Order . I hope that people who be stand be here at the beginning . within the last week , have the Chancellor speak to the Governor of the Bank of England about the impact of soar borrowing cost ? the Chancellor meet the Governor of the Bank of England on a regular basis and will continue to do so . it have be widely report that the Chancellor now face a choice between raise taxis or cut public spending if she be to stay within her non - negotiable fiscal rule . give report that she will now conduct group meeting with Ministers , rather than the less combative approach of one - to - one meeting conduct by the right hon . Gentleman , to discuss departmental cut , it sound as if government spending be be dictate by the Ministers with the sharp elbow . can he reassure the House that there will not be any departmental cut ? I be pleased that the hon . Member can afford the subscription to Bloomberg News ; I can not , unfortunately , so I could not read the article to which he refer . he inadvertently ask I a question about the process of the spending review . [ interruption . ] that be the question . we be embed mission - lead government , which be what the Prime Minister set out in his mission in his plan for change . that require department to work together to make sure that they be absolutely focused on the delivery of the plan for change priority , which be why the spending review be be do on a multilateral basis in a new way . I will be give a speech on this issue in a couple of week ' time , and I will make sure that the hon . Gentleman get an invitation . I thank the Minister for all his answer this morning . the UK ' s public debt have rise sharply over the decade . at the moment , it be reach level not see in the post - world war two era , mean that a large proportion of our expenditure be focus on pay back , as oppose to public spending . I always try to be constructive , as the Minister know . nowhere will the impact — on health and education , for example — be great than in Northern Ireland . I have a very specific question for the Minister : what discussion have he have with Departments , and particularly the Finance Department , at the Northern Ireland Assembly ? I lead for the Treasury on inter - ministerial relationship with Finance Ministers in the devolved government . I regularly meet my counterpart , and I will meet they in Wales in the come week to talk about our spending plan for the future . business of the House will the Leader of the House give we the forthcoming business ? the business for the week commence 13 January include : Monday 13 January — general debate on hospice and palliative care , follow by a general debate on the impact of food and diet on obesity . the subject for these debate be determine by the Backbench Business Committee . Tuesday 14 January — remain stage of the Renters ' Rights Bill . Wednesday 15 January — remain stage of the Non - Domestic Rating ( Multipliers and Private Schools ) Bill . Thursday 16 January — motion to approve the draft Deposit Scheme for Drinks Containers ( England and Northern Ireland ) Regulations 2024 , follow by a debate on a motion on the performance of the Medicines and Healthcare product Regulatory Agency . the subject for this debate be determine by the Backbench Business Committee ( in unallotted time ) . Friday 17 January — private member ' Bills . the provisional business for the week commence 20 January will include : Monday 20 January — business to be determine by the Backbench Business Committee . Tuesday 21 January — remain stage of the Armed Forces Commissioner Bill . Madam Deputy Speaker , may I start by wish you a very happy new year ? I hope that all colleague in the Chamber have a zestful and restful Christmas . I also pay tribute to those member of the House Service who be honour in the recent honours list . the new year be always a time for new start and fresh beginning ; a time when people step back , look at themselves in the mirror , pinch an inch or two , and perhaps make a few resolution — lie off the pie , resist the siren call of the cheeseboard , spend less on self - indulgence and more on thing that matter , take themselves in hand , and perhaps try to manage thing a bit well . the Government might consider adopt these new year ' s resolution for themselves . after all , by any standard , their first six month in office have be pretty catastrophic . they have have six happy month blame everyone else ; now they need to take responsibility and lead . we have see how the Budget continue to have devastating effect , both on key sector and more widely . just a few week ago the National Institute of Economic and Social Research warn that the UK economy do not grow at all in the fourth quarter of last year . high street retailer have report their bad sale decline since covid , both offline and online . business confidence be at a four - year low . employment continue to fall , and job vacancy be at their low for three year . only this week we see that long - term interest rate in the gilt market , as very well highlight by the shadow Chancellor in this morning ' s urgent question , have rise to their high level since 1998 , 27 year ago — that be before some member of this House be bear — reflect severe investor worry about Labour ' s spending plan and about increase UK vulnerability to increase in the national debt . the Government can not blame that on the past . it be a straight judgment on their own credibility , and it be cost this country dearly every day . the problem be not just that the Government have damage key part of the economy with their Budget decision ; it be that the long - term effect of those decision be so counterproductive . the CBI have calculate that the Government ' s raid on inheritance tax will cost £ 1 . 25 billion more than it raise . the Chancellor have say : " I ' m really clear , I ' m not come back with more borrowing or more taxis . " last month , she specifically rule out an emergency Budget in the spring . the effect of these rise interest rate be to reduce fiscal headroom and make new tax rise or spending cut very possible — indeed , some would say almost inevitable . we must wait to see whether that mean emergency tax rise or an unexpected fiscal event in the spring , with a detailed investigation by the Office for Budget Responsibility . that also raise the question : how can the Government plan a spending review at all if they be not in control of the public finance ? the damage will not be just to the Chancellor ' s own reputation ; it will damage the pocket of every person in every household in this country . as we think about the new year , what resolution should the House encourage the Government to adopt ? I suggest three . first , stop take politically drive measure that actively hurt the economy . stop punish the retail and hospitality sector , which give so many young people their first job . stop attack farmer and the rural economy . stop the madness of the Employment Rights Bill , which will make it hard than ever to start and build a business . we should be celebrate and rewarding drive , energy , aspiration and entrepreneurship , not undermine they . secondly , come clean to the people of this country about the Government ' s own uncertainty , conflict and incompetence . we have have endless announcement about new commission and initiative , each testimony to labour ' s hopeless lack of planning before the election . we have a delay autumn Budget and this year we will have a spending review that , if it be not derail by fiscal event , could easily last until June or July , build up to a full year of stasis and stagnation since the general election . a final resolution might be to show we some leadership . the Prime Minister point out , and rightly so , that in 2010 the incoming Government inherit public finance in desperate need of repair . he say " we can not tax our way to prosperity or spend our way to well public service . " those be refreshingly honest , cross - party recognition of the difficulty of government , but when it come to action , what have we see ? Dither , delay and divisive policy making . reform of social care be a huge issue for million of people across this country and could lift huge burden from the NHS , yet this week we learn that , despite all Labour ' s promise of change , it have be kick into the long grass . in closing , this Government be elect to own key issue and to address they , not to avoid the hard problem , parrot the usual political line , blame other people and play nice to their friend in the union . they need to stop blame other , get on and show the country they can lead . may I , too , wish you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and the whole House a very happy new year ? I send all our sympathy to the resident of Los Angeles who be be hit by wildfire — the situation unfold there be very concern indeed . may I also take this opportunity to congratulate a fellow northerner , Luke Littler , on win the world dart championship ? he might support the wrong football team , but he have be a great role model and be make dart a very compelling sport . it be the new year , but I be afraid it be the same old Tories . their decision to try to vote down the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill yesterday be another huge misjudgment . they seem to have learn nothing and be incapable of accept they get thing wrong or have what it take to rebuild trust . the victim of groom gang need politician to hear their voice , to act without fear or favour , and to take all necessary step to root out and bring justice to perpetrator and enabler , whoever they be . they do not need pathetic and blatant political bandwagon jumping . if Conservative Members be really interested in the victim and justice , their leader would have meet with victim , but she have not . when she be child ' s Minister or the Women and Equalities Minister , she could have act or speak about the subject in the Chamber , but she do not . if this be really about address the root cause and make sure our institution , culture and law be fit for purpose , the Conservatives would have start implement the recommendation of the Jay report , but they do not . their wreck tactic last night show that they would rather play politic instead of support measure to safeguard child . I find it quite depressing to watch the official opposition chase the spectre of Reform . these be very serious issue that require serious attention , with victim and their learning at the centre . yet again , the shadow Leader of the House raise the economy but , as ever , I will take no lecture from he . after all , he admit that we inherit a " struggle " economy with " anaemic " growth . our commitment to economic stability , sound public finance and meet the fiscal rule be non - negotiable , as we have just hear from the Chief Secretary to the Treasury . we be borrow only for investment and we will see net debt fall . as the right hon . Gentleman know well , the cost of debt fluctuate , often because of global market . that be in stark contrast to the chaos we see under his government , when Liz Truss ' s kamikaze Budget directly and immediately lead to the gilt market crash , need the Bank of England to intervene to buy up Government bond . she might want we to cease and desist , but we will not cease and desist from tell the truth that they crash the economy . when we talk about fix the foundation of our economy , we be talk about tackle the fundamental and huge structural problem we face : year of low growth ; very low productivity ; chronically low investment ; poor connectivity ; a labour market with high level of sickness ; a health service on its knee ; low skill ; and an overreliance on record level of immigration , which , in turn , put more pressure on the housing crisis . there be no quick fix , but that be why the decision we have take , such as those in the Budget , be different and represent our vision of sustainable , shared growth . that begin with investment in health , investment in education and skill , and investment in the job of the future . it begin with provide a pay rise for the low pay , investment in transport and connectivity , and decent home for people to live in . our approach be fundamentally different from that of the conservative party , which be base on short - term , deregulatory , trickle - down economic . opposition Members can not have it both way . we would have have cut now — huge cut to health and education — if they have be in government . they can not have the benefit of the Budget without the measure it take to achieve they . their agenda see living standard fall for the first time in decade , with stagnant growth , poor productivity , high waiting list and sickness rate and , perhaps most telling of all , in their last year of office net migration at nearly 1 million . we recognise that it will take time and we be begin to turn the oil tanker around . I call the Chair of the Defence Committee . in 1984 , the global Sikh community suffer catastrophic collective trauma when the then indian Government order the storming of the Golden Temple complex in Amritsar , which lead to devastating destruction and bloodshed , with thousand of innocent people lose their life . thirty year later , to our shock , new document expose that the Thatcher Government have help their indian counterpart by provide advice prior to that military operation . in its pursuit for the truth and transparency , the British Sikh community duly launch a campaign for an independent inquiry to establish the extent of that involvement . while previous conservative government have try to brush the issue under the carpet , Sikhs expect the new Labour Government to establish that promise independent inquiry . when will that be initiate ? I know that this matter be of great importance to the Sikh community across the UK , so my hon . friend be absolutely right to raise it today and to continue to do so on behalf of the Sikh community and other . we need to get to the bottom of what happen , and I will ensure that the Ministers responsible be in touch with he to discuss the matter far . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I wish you a happy new year , Madam Deputy Speaker . community pharmacy be fundamental to our healthcare system , provide essential advice and service while alleviate pressure on the NHS . we simply can not do without they . indeed , we be all now encourage to " think Pharmacy First " for some medical condition . however , it be hard to understand how that be possible if pharmacy be face closure because the NHS be not cover the cost of the medication they dispense . the contract between the NHS and pharmacy have simply fail to keep up with the rise cost of many medicine . the result be that many pharmacist be operate out of their own pocket , take huge loss year after year . the outcome feel inevitable . we have see 1 , 200 pharmacy close since 2015 , include nearly 500 in the past year alone . when the Company Chemists ' Association report average shortfall of £ 60 , 000 per pharmacy per annum , can we really be surprised ? we be warn by the National Pharmacy Association of pharmacy desert , where many rural and deprived area risk have no immediate access at all . this can only spell a health inequality crisis , which will be feel more intensely by those who already struggle the most . this need to be fix . we must avoid even more pharmacy closure up and down the country . pharmacy be vital not just to the community they serve , but to the NHS as a whole . will the Leader of the House grant Government time for a debate on how our pharmacy can be well support for long - term viability and sustainability ? I thank the hon . Lady for raise this important matter . indeed , it be raise in stark term at Prime Minister ' s question yesterday by one of her colleague . what she describe happen in our community pharmacy as well as in other part of the broad healthcare sector be a crisis . we be deal with difficult circumstance that we inherit follow 14 year of under - investment , industrial action and other problem in the health service . she will know that this Government be commit to extra investment . that be why the Budget , which many conservative Members have oppose , allocate record level of investment to our national health service . part of that be about ensure that we have early intervention service in the community , and our community pharmacy be central to that drive . that be why the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care will continue to support our pharmacy and help turn around the terrible situation they face . a recent report state that there be an increase risk to life at Doncaster ' s hospital if a fire be to occur . there be also a risk of electrical failure due to the age and condition of the infrastructure . despite much fanfare and promise , the previous Government do nothing to improve the condition of Doncaster royal infirmary . add to that , we have one of the big repair backlog in the country . can the Leader of the House ensure that a Health Minister meet I and other Doncaster MPs urgently to ensure that our constituent have access to safe secondary care ? yet again , my hon . friend raise the important matter of Doncaster royal infirmary in her constituency . I know that she be do great work to highlight the problem that it face . she will be aware that the so - call new hospital programme — the previous Government ' s capital investment programme — be a work of fiction . the programme do not have the fund our hospital need , but I will ensure that she get a meeting with a Minister , because the circumstance that she describe be unacceptable . I call the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee . happy new year to you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and to everyone . in addition to the business that the Leader of the House have announce , the Backbench Business Committee have organise debate in Westminster Hall on Tuesday 14 January on railway service in the south - west ; on Thursday 16 January on Government support for the marine renewable industry ; on Tuesday 21 January on the provision of auditory verbal therapy ; and on Thursday 23 January on the United Nations International Day of Education , follow by a debate on the innovation in the field of rare retinal disease . with your permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , on Tuesday 28 January , there will be a debate on road safety for young driver . the Leader of the House have announce the debate on the performance of the Medicines and Healthcare product Regulatory Agency . she will know that that debate be freeze out before Christmas , because the Government put on a succession of statement and there be insufficient time for it to take place . she have say that it now have an allocate day , but will she arrange for it to be give protect time so that that debate can take place in full ? we have a heavily subscribe request for a debate on Holocaust Memorial Day , which take place on 27 January . obviously , the Leader of the House have not announce the date for debate during that period , but it would be helpful for all member if she could indicate whether she will allow a debate either on the 27th or on one of the two relevant Thursdays . this will be the 80th anniversary of the liberation of Auschwitz - Birkenau , and sadly many of the survivor will not live to see another significant memorial day , so I hope that she will be able to facilitate a debate . yesterday , our ally in the United Arab Emirates announce that 19 entity and individual have be proscribe and put on their watchlist for terrorist link across the world . sadly , eight of those entity exist in the UK , where they operate freely and be not proscribe . could we have a statement from a Minister early next week on what action the Government will take follow the action of the United Arab Emirates , to ensure that these islamist terrorist group , which be link to the Muslim Brotherhood , be proscribe in the UK and be not allow to operate freely ? I will pick up on a couple of the Backbench Business issue . I put on record my thank to the Chair of the Committee ; it be great that he announce some of those debate . the Medicines and Healthcare product Regulatory Agency debate next week , which I be pleased we have find further time for , will come after a statutory instrument debate that will be limit to 90 minute . as thing stand , I be confident that the debate will get enough time . should the situation change , I will of course look into ensure that it have sufficient time on that date . on a Holocaust Memorial Day debate , while I be unable to confirm the date of 27 January for the hon . Gentleman right now , I recognise the importance of the issue and how time sensitive it be , this year of all year . if he bear with I , I be sure we can continue to have that conversation outside the Chamber . on the issue of the United Arab Emirates proscribe individual , he know that we be close ally and work very closely with that country . I will ensure that there be a ministerial response on the matter and on the subsequent action that the Government be take regard those individual . a very happy new year to you , Madam Deputy Speaker . the list place of worship grant scheme permit vat to be refund on repair to some of our old church building , as well as other religious building . since its introduction under the last Labour Government , the scheme have help with the restoration of thousand of building across the country . it be vital that the scheme do not come to an end on 31 March , as it would make it near - impossible for many building and parish to restore their space . can we have a Government statement on the future of the list place of worship grant scheme ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that important matter , which I know be of wide interest in this House ; it have be raise many time over the year that I have be a Member of Parliament . I understand the concern about the imminent deadline , so I will ensure that either she have a discussion with a Minister or a Minister come to the House and explain the future of the policy to everybody . this week , temperature be plummet across the country . in the west midland , we be expect it to reach minus 6 ° this evening . will the right hon . Lady assure the House that all constituent who have be force to apply for pension credit in the hope that they be eligible for the winter fuel payment will receive the payment in good time ? they be face with an awful decision about how to afford to heat their home . I recognise the issue the right hon . member raise . of course , temperature be very cold at the moment right across the country . she will know that , in addition to the support that be there for pensioner — the increase state pension this year ; the record increase in application for pension credit , which be be process at pace ; the £ 150 warm home discount ; and the extra money be distribute by council to many pensioner , which in some case be £ 200 and above — people will be eligible for the cold weather payment over this cold period . she can be assure that pensioner who be eligible be get the support they need in this cold weather . the Government have say that by June , they intend to ratify the agreement on biodiversity beyond national jurisdiction , more commonly know as the global oceans treaty . they have also say quite correctly , and highly unusually , that before they do so , they intend to take step to put in place the measure to implement the agreement . that will require primary legislation . can the Leader of the House tell we when such legislation may be bring forward and what form it might take ? I be well aware of this issue and the legislative time that would be require . the Government be completely committed to ratify the BBNJ agreement , and work be already under way to implement provision in the agreement before we can ratify it . my hon . friend will be aware that we have a heavy legislative agenda — one of the most ambitious of any incoming government . the legislation about the treaty will come forward in due course . young cancer patient be subject to a three - month qualifying period before they can even apply for disability living allowance or personal independence payment , on top of a 20 - week delay for the processing of disability benefit . child have often die before the benefit have be award , due to bureaucratic inertia by the Department for Work and Pensions . Hugh ' s law , propose by Ceri and Frances Menai - Davis , would seek to remove the three - month qualifying period for DLA and call for day 1 financial support . will the Leader of the House provide Government time for a debate on the merit of Hugh ' s law ? I thank the hon . member for raise the plight of young people who have cancer and face difficult challenge in their life . he raise an important issue about the timely awarding of disability living allowance and other benefit , and describe Hugh ' s law . I will ensure that he get a full ministerial reply and , if that be not sufficient , I will ensure that we make some time for it . resident live in the Brockhill development in my constituency have be fight developer for nearly two decade to have road and land parcel adopt and for fit - for - purpose estate management . will the Leader of the House provide Government time to discuss how we can hold developer to account on their promise during the planning process , so that resident do not have to spend 20 year fight for what they have pay for ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to raise those issue , and that be why the Government be bring forward a major piece of legislation , the planning and infrastructure Bill , which will make sure that developer play their role in ensure that we have the local service and infrastructure that be need to sit alongside the kind of development he describe . do the Leader of the House plan to set aside some Government time for we to discuss the enormous change to local government announce in a statement just before Christmas ? that force a lot of council to come up with plan at very short notice . there have be limited opportunity for any kind of democratic engagement from our constituent . it seem to I that we ought to spend some time in this Chamber debate the implication of potentially cancel a series of local election ? will she spare that time ? the hon . Lady raise an important point . as be set out in that statement , our White Paper contain major reform to deliver on the devolution agenda and put power back into community , which we say we would do . there have be knock - on consequence , but I assure she that we will consider postpone election only where do so would help to deliver reorganisation and devolution in the most ambitious possible timeframe . she make a good case for a general debate to discuss those issue more broadly , and I be sure that such a debate would be well attend . the year 2025 be a jubilee year , which be a motivation for many christian organisation and other to campaign to cancel the debt of global south country and tackle the root cause of the endless debt crisis . More than 3 . 3 billion people live in country where more be spend on service debt than on health and education combine , so might we have a debate in Government time on debt relief for low - income and debt - distressed country ? Jubilee 2025 be a great campaign . the hon . Gentleman may wish to raise those issue with the Foreign Secretary and his team at Foreign Office question next week . the matter would make an excellent Backbench Business debate , and I know that the Backbench Business Committee have grant debate on it before . while I be at it , I encourage colleague to apply to the Backbench Business Committee for debate . in Fylde , it feel as if our green belt be under attack from all direction and not in a co - ordinate way . the Morgan and Morecambe wind farm cable corridor and substation be come in at St Anne ' s on the coast and cable all the way through Fylde to Penwortham ; solar farm application be be make left , right and centre ; and our housing target have just be double with pretty much nowhere to put housing other than on the green belt . may we have a debate in Government time to discuss the demand place on the green belt and our countryside by different Government Departments , which result not just in lose farmland and countryside , but in flooding , congestion and other danger ? if we be to preserve our countryside , the Government must tackle those issue in a co - ordinate way . the hon . Gentleman will be aware that the green belt be , and remain , protect . the Government plan to unlock what we describe as " grey belt " — not particularly good - quality green belt — and we want a policy of " brownfield first " in planning decision . he raise the issue of different aspect , include energy supply , infrastructure and transport , all come together . our planning and infrastructure Bill , which we will soon introduce to the House , will consider all those issue in the round , and I be sure that he will take part in those debate . on 31 December , we mark the 95th anniversary of the Glen cinema disaster — one of the UK ' s bad disaster — which take place in my constituency . seventy - one child , the young of whom be only four , lose their life in a crowd crush cause by a smoking canister of nitrate film . do my right hon . friend agree that the legacy of those lose life lie in the UK ' s fire and building safety regulation ? next time she see a light emergency exit sign , will she pause to remember the child of the Glen cinema ? I be sure that the whole House will take a moment , 95 year on , to remember all those who be kill in the Glen cinema tragedy , as my hon . friend remind we on behalf of her constituent . she will be aware that thing have move on , and in recent year we have learn the lesson and ensure that our public place be safe . although Martyn ' s law , which be go through the other place at the moment , be focus on terrorism , it will also support action against fire and other hazard in our public space . last week , my constituent Jordan Maclachlan from Ardnamurchan be kill while serve as a medic in Ukraine . Jordan volunteer to go to Ukraine at the start of the war , and his family have say that by serve on the frontline , " Jordan always believe that he be make a difference " . will the Leader of the House join I , not just in send our deep condolence to Jordan ' s heartbroken family and friend , but in say that we in this House also believe that in his work as a ukrainian army medic , Jordan do make a difference ? do she also agree that it be now incumbent on all of we who believe in democracy and the rule of law that we keep Jordan ' s memory alive by ensure that aggressor such as Putin will not win ? I also express our deep condolence to Jordan ' s family and friend . I know that consular official be in touch and support his family . while I would not want to encourage people to go to Ukraine in that way , I absolutely share this Government ' s commitment to ensure that Ukraine win in this war against Putin ' s illegal aggression . we will do whatever it take to support Ukrainians in that endeavour . I have table an early - day motion call for Disclosure and Barring Service check for all member of both Houses . [ that this House believe that all Parliamentarians should be subject to a Disclosure and Barring Service check when they take their place in the House of Commons or House of Lords . ] that would make we all feel safe in the corridor of power , but more importantly , would give the institution we visit — such as care home and school — much great confidence in who they be let through their door . my submission to the Modernisation Committee also make that proposal . would the Leader of the House support such a proposal ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this issue , and for write to I and to the Modernisation Committee about it . I absolutely understand her motivation — to ensure that the House of Commons and , indeed , the wide Parliament be a safe place for people to work , and that our constituent and other can feel safe in their interaction with we . that be why over recent year , we have develop more robust system around those issue , and we be look far at they . however , I say gently to my hon . friend that we need to strike a balance that ensure we can also represent our constituent freely and openly . this week , Scottish Labour announce that it will abstain to allow the SNP Government ' s Budget to pass through the Scottish Parliament . this be now typical of Scottish Labour , sit on the fence and not stand up to the SNP in Scotland . do the Leader of the House agree that there should be a statement on the UK Government ' s priority for Scotland , consider that her party promise change but be now endorse the same old SNP tactic ? I do not agree with the hon . Gentleman ' s characterisation . scottish Labour and the Labour party have do more than most to stand up to the failure of the Scottish Government , of which there be many . that be why we have return a record number of Labour mp in Scotland who win seat directly from the Scottish National party . the Scottish National party and the Government there now have a huge amount of extra money thank to this Government ' s Budget . they have the power to get that money to the frontline , and we want to see the life of people in Scotland improve , but we believe that that will be do well when people vote for Scottish Labour in the future . my right hon . friend will know that throughout the pandemic , the Conservative Government exclude nearly 4 million self - employ and other worker from financial support . life be lose and livelihood ruin , and many of those worker remain struggle . will my right hon . friend please make time for a debate , so that we can yet again look to right the wrong of the previous Government ? my hon . friend raise a very good point about those who be exclude and those who be leave in great difficulty as a result of the pandemic , which be a huge shock to the economy at the time . treasury question be come up in a couple of week ; my hon . friend might want to raise that issue then . the hon . member for West Worcestershire ( Dame Harriett Baldwin ) mention the subject of devolution . in Gloucestershire , we stand on the cusp of a democratic outrage : the county council leadership have suggest that district be back it in cancel this year ' s election , and back a single unitary authority for the whole of Gloucestershire . have speak to other district , that be not the case , and I know that Labour Members from Gloucestershire share my concern . I add my weight to the hon . member for West Worcestershire ' s call : that , if county council persist in this kind of democratic outrage , we must have time to debate that in this House . I hope the Leader of the House agree . I hear what the hon . Member say . to reiterate what I say early , the Minister for Local Government have set out some very clear criterion that must be meet in relation to any request for postpone election , and one of the thing he will be look for be support across the area for that decision . however , I will certainly listen to request for a broad debate on this issue . a few year ago , my cousin John take his own life . it be something that , as a family , I can say here and now , we will never ever get over . there be Johns out there today — many Johns — contemplate their future ; January be a particularly tough month for many people . will the Leader of the House join I in raise awareness about mental health so that people know it be actually a strength of character to speak up and speak out and talk about their feeling ? will she also recognise the amazing organisation out there that welcome people through their door every day to a safe space and environment , such as the Jackson Hope Foundation in my constituency of Doncaster East and the Isle of Axholme ? absolutely . I be really sorry to hear of the death of my hon . friend ' s cousin John from mental health issue . he be absolutely right to raise this , especially at this time of year when we have dark night and cold weather . it be after Christmas , and many people do not feel as optimistic at the start of the new year as the rest of we . he be absolutely right that speak up , share and be open about these thing be one of the good way in which we can tackle the blight of mental health . a constituent of mine , Maria Culley , have long be campaign for a comprehensive regulatory framework for nanny , such as mandatory background check , standardised training , ongoing professional development and the inclusion of other standard , all to ensure that every nanny in the UK be hold to a high standard , while protect family with the security of know that their child be safe and in capable hand . I have be ask for a meeting with the child and family Minister — the Under - Secretary of State for Education , the hon . member for Lewisham East ( Janet Daby ) — for some time . could the Leader of the House push that meeting along , so that I and my constituent Maria can meet the Minister to discuss this campaign ? the hon . member raise a really important issue about ensure that all those look after our child be operate to the high standard , and do so safely and with strong level of accountability . I would gently say to he that that be often not the message that come from those on his Front Bench about these issue , and we be often ask to do the opposite when it come to the early year sector . our child ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill , which pass its Second reading yesterday , will look at some of these issue , and I will certainly ask for a Minister to give he a full response about the nanny sector . this week , we have spend a lot of time talk about Elon Musk and his concern about violence against , and the sexual abuse of , woman . I be aware of an ongoing case in which a woman continue to be stalk by a man who have already be convict of stalk she , and who have set up an x account in her name and be post pornography . however , Elon Musk ' s company refuse to provide the IP account address need to increase the level of sanction against the man . will the Leader of the House find time for a debate to discuss what Mr Musk and his company can do to ensure that those guilty of harm woman be properly prosecute ? my hon . friend raise a very concern case , and it be not an isolated one . that be why this government be take real step against stalk , with our stalk prevention order be strengthen . she will know that we have a debate this afternoon on end violence against woman and girl . she raise a particular issue about the responsibility of social medium company . unfortunately , the previous Government do not include some of those in the Online Safety Act 2023 , as they water it down at the last minute . however , I will ensure that she get a proper reply from a Minister about what power the Government and the police have to take action in this case , and we will look at what need to be strengthen far . rise — Order . I need you all to work with I . if your question be fast and the answer be just as fast , I will be able to get everyone in , otherwise not everyone will be able to get in . two day before Christmas , the Government pull the plug on the community ownership fund . this be a devastating blow to organisation , charity and community group across the country , such as Much Marcle community shop , Pencombe parish council , which want to buy the local pub , and the local disability charity ECHO for Extra Choices in Herefordshire . they be all in my constituency , and all have fantastic project that now have no prospect of Government funding . will the Leader of the House ask the Secretary of State for Housing , Communities and Local Government to come to the House to answer question from member about why the Government pull the rug out from under project such as those , and how they will support community project to serve their community ? I thank the hon . member for raise that issue , which I know be of concern to other member across the House . she be right that we have take the very difficult decision , due to the challenging economic situation and the inheritance we be leave by the previous Government , to end this particular fund . however , we do remain committed to the community sector and community empowerment , and we will deliver on our manifesto commitment to replace the community right to bid with a strengthen right to buy asset of community value . I will ensure that further update be give to the House in due course . deeplish community centre in Rochdale have just celebrate 35 year of provide pre - school club , holiday playgroup and elderly lunch club , as well as job and training for people in the heart of Rochdale . the key thing be that it proudly retain its Sure Start status , as it do under the last Labour Government , and it be the family hub that help rebuild the nearby deeplish primary school , which I have the pleasure of welcome to Westminster last year . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate Sohail Ahmad and all those who have build this fantastic community device over the last few year ? I absolutely join my hon . friend in congratulate all those involve with the deeplish community centre in his constituency on celebrate its 35th birthday . he be a fellow Greater Manchester MP , and we be both well aware of the really good work that the Mayor , Andy Burnham , have be do there to ensure we have early year provision . we have maintain the sure Start model to some degree to ensure that everybody get the very good start in life . I be sure the Leader of the House will be celebrate with the people of the Falkland Islands tomorrow as they gather for a public holiday to commemorate Margaret Thatcher Day . she be the Prime Minister who go there 42 year ago tomorrow , 10 January , follow the liberation of the island . self - determination be of course what she fight for for the Falkland Islanders . will the Leader of the House ensure that the Government make an urgent statement confirm the same principle of self - determination for all british citizen of all british territory , include the British Indian Ocean Territory and the right of self - determination for the Chagos Islanders ? I perhaps will not celebrate Margaret Thatcher Day in quite the way the hon . Member want I to , but on behalf of the government I absolutely make clear our commitment to the Falkland Islands . I remember very well the passionate defence that the Prime Minister make of that at this Dispatch Box in recent week , and of his family ' s involvement in the Falklands war . he raise the Chagos issue , and he will be aware that his own Government begin those negotiation . I think there be 11 round of negotiation about the future of the air base there under his government ' s watch , so it be very much something we inherit and that be in train at the time . the Museum of Scottish Railways in my constituency , at the site of the Bo ' ness and Kinneil railway and operate by the Scottish Railway Preservation Society , be Scotland ' s large railway museum . it be play a key part in the celebration mark 200 year of modern railway , in recognition of its importance in preserve heritage and attract over 60 , 000 visitor every year . will the Leader of the House grant time for a debate on support and celebrate heritage railway ? heritage railway such as Bo ' ness and Kinneil often get mention in these session , and I join my hon . friend in thank they for the brilliant work they do and thank the volunteer they rely on for making sure that heritage railway , which be so value , continue to flourish . small retailer , restaurant and pub add huge vibrancy , colour and character to the great british high street , but the Budget pose an existential crisis to many of they , with the increase to national insurance and the slashing of small business rate relief . will the right hon . Lady grant a debate on how we can well protect the future of the great british high street and the many job it provide ? as the Member of Parliament with the high number of pub in their constituency , I strongly echo the hon . member ' s support for the hospitality sector and the vital role it play in keep our high street , town centre and city centre vibrant , with all the employment , joy and everything else that they bring . it have be a tough few year for the hospitality sector — we all recognise that . we have to take some difficult decision in the Budget to make sure that our health service and education service would not face cut . in the long run , our hospitality sector will benefit from all the investment we be put in to make sure it have a healthy and highly skilled workforce . just before Christmas , I be fortunate to attend the late passing - out parade for graduate of the Firebreak scheme at Stanground fire station in my constituency of North West Cambridgeshire . that intensive five - day intervention programme provide a positive alternative learn environment and be aim at young people age 10 to 18 who be struggle with the mainstream education environment . participant leave with certificate in cardiopulmonary resuscitation , basic lifesaving and all sort . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate Paul Clarke , the child and young people lead , and the community fire safety group at Cambridgeshire Fire and Rescue Service ? will she consider a debate on how support such intervention can help young people get back on the right track by re - engage with and thrive in their education ? I certainly join my hon . friend in congratulate the community fire safety group at Cambridgeshire Fire and Rescue Service . the alternative provision that he highlight be crucial in help child who might otherwise be take out of school , or perhaps have nowhere else to go , to get the support they need so that they can flourish in life . I share the concern of the hon . member for North Herefordshire ( Ellie Chowns ) about the closure of the community ownership fund . East Neuk community in my constituency make a 50 - page application , with the support of the Development Trusts Association Scotland , but be tell to wait until after the Budget . I hear the Leader of the House ' s response to the hon . member , but may we have a debate in Government time so that community asset in Scotland and other part of the UK do not suffer ? I hear that more than one member — I know there have be other this week — be interested in the future of the community ownership fund . as I say to the hon . member for North Herefordshire ( Ellie Chowns ) , this Government be commit to the principle of community ownership and to make it easy for community to take ownership of asset . I hear their call . there be oral question to the Department come up next week . if the answer be not satisfactorily resolve , I will certainly look at a debate . many of my constituent be rightly concerned about animal welfare . I join they in want to see more action in that area , whether that be an end to trail hunting , the phasing out of animal testing or abolish the use of snare trap . I welcome the Government ' s pledge to introduce a range of measure in support of animal welfare . will the Leader of the House give we some indication of the likely timescale for reform ? I thank my hon . friend for raise these issue . she will be aware that in our manifesto , we make a number of commitment to animal welfare issue , of which some will require legislation and some will not . we have a pack legislative programme for this session , but we be commit to bring forward legislation in this space where necessary to improve animal welfare standard in this country . Tara and Keith in my constituency have write to I about the appalling one - hour delay on First Bus ' s 22 bus service . lesson be be miss and a gentleman in my constituency miss a serious operation because of the appalling service . will the Leader of the House arrange time to debate public transport in Somerset , include the need to reopen Wellington station on the same route as the 22 bus service ? I be sorry to hear of the delay that Tara and Keith have suffer from poor bus service in the hon . member ' s constituency . obviously in Greater Manchester we have suddenly get great bus , but apart from we , I think that people can recognise the situation he describe , especially in our rural community . that be why we have bring forward the bus service reform Bill , which be currently in the House of Lords , and it be why we be put extra investment into bus — so that local community such as his , can have a reliable and affordable bus service . the number of survivor of historical abuse at Medomsley detention centre be decrease . victim be seek justice for the serious and widespread abuse that take place between 1961 and 1987 . will the Leader of the House help I secure a meeting with the Home Secretary to discuss how the survivor , as well as the family of those who be no long with we , can finally achieve full justice ? I will help my hon . friend to secure a meeting with either the Home Secretary or the relevant Minister to discuss this historical abuse case . some 160 , 000 people live in residential park home in England . however , when they come to sell their property , they be require to pay 10 % of the sale price to the site owner . although local authority be responsible for the site licence , they often do not have the specific knowledge necessary , make bad by the fact that they do not have to have a name park home officer . will the Leader of the House make time for a debate how we can give park home owner more right over their property and fix some of these issue ? this be not something I be aware of ; I have not come across a park home in my constituency , but the hon . member raise an important point . it would make an extremely good application for an Adjournment debate , but in the meantime , I will ensure he get a full ministerial response about park home . over the Christmas recess , I be lucky enough to visit South East Harlow Sports and Youth Association , a fantastic grassroot organisation that support young people in my community to get access to sport and thrive . can we have a debate in Government time on how we can support such grassroots youth organisation to ensure they survive and thrive and support young people in our community ? I join my hon . friend in congratulate South East Harlow Sports and Youth Association for the great work it do . he be right to raise the vital role of grassroots sport facility . that be why this Government have set aside budget for they to continue and flourish . he might want to raise this issue with the Secretary of State in question next week . attention deficit hyperactivity disorder service in Oxfordshire be in crisis . there be no adult specialise commission service available and waiting list have be close . those lucky enough to have a diagnosis and treatment can not get medication , because of shortage . in one case , a constituent be unable to continue their care , have turn 18 and be kick out of paediatric service . will the Leader of the House make time to discuss ADHD service nationwide in this House ? I thank the hon . member for raise ADHD service and the broad issue of special educational need and disability provision in this country , which be raise regularly in this session and in many other way on the Floor of the House . he will know that we be not get the outcome we need , and family and child be not get the support they need in this area , even though cost go up and up . we set aside £ 1 billion extra in the Budget to support special educational need , but he be right that we need to look at these service and ensure that they be fit for purpose and that we be provide support and get the outcome we need . last month , I work with Aylesbury town council to convene some of the business that be so central to our community . they raise concern about antisocial behaviour , and the data back up those concern : in the past year , more than 750 incident be record in the constituency . do the Leader of the House agree that we must not only tackle this challenge in our town centre but promote positive , respectful behaviour ? will she make space for a debate on this issue ? antisocial behaviour chip away at community ' sense of confidence and pride , and make people feel at risk in their own community . our new respect order will begin to tackle this issue , and the crime and police Bill , through which we can discuss this issue far , will be introduce to the House very shortly . I again thank the Leader of the House for all her answer . in Bangladesh in 2024 , over 400 attack be carry out in place belong to Hindus and other religious minority , include some 25 temple . these attack have have an impact on some 20 , 000 people across 47 district , and result in the death of at least 60 Hindus . there be report of rape and mob lynching , include the very brutal killing of an 18 - year - old in the presence of police and military personnel . furthermore , Chinmoy Krishna Das , a Hindu clergyman , be arbitrarily arrest for raise issue about the treatment of religious minority and their leader in Bangladesh . will the Leader of the House urge the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office to raise these alarming violation of freedom of religion or belief with the Bangladeshi Government ? as ever , the hon . Gentleman raise an important matter . we have be very clear in our discussion with the interim Government in Bangladesh about the importance of political consensus and stability , and the need for national reconciliation in the country . rise — order . we have 20 member leave , all on the Government Benches . if you work together , you will all get in . it be up to you . I welcome the Government ' s announcement that Yorkshire and the Humber be get £ 123 million to repair pothole . since the announcement , many of my constituent in Leeds South West and Morley have be in touch about key road in the constituency — Cross Peel Street , the Tingley roundabout and Asquith Avenue . I have mention this three time in the House already . will the Leader of the House grant an urgent debate on the need to help these local authority spend this money quickly , so that all our resident feel the benefit ? that avenue in my hon . friend ' s constituency be become famous in Parliament . he be right that fix pothole be a priority for this Government . that be why we have announce record level of investment . the equivalent of an extra 7 million pothole could be fill just this year , if council spend that money quickly and well . one year and one day ago , the Prime Minister visit my constituency to see the flood damage . over the past week , property in my constituency have once again be ruin by flooding . when the Prime Minister come a year ago , he meet Jacob . Jacob spend the last year fix up his house . it be finish last month , and now it be ruin again . can the Leader of the House assure I that this Government will do everything they can to protect my community , include with some of the £ 2 . 4 billion of flood defence money ? I be really sorry to hear that Jacob have yet again be affect by flooding . as my hon . friend will be aware , flood incident be become more extreme and occur more often . the flood defence that we inherit be pretty shocking , but we be turn that around . we have the flood resilience taskforce and extra money go in , but I will ensure that this House be keep update about our plan on flooding , as it have be this week . Rugby union be the national sport of Cornwall and be integral to many of our local community . have speak to several rugby club across and associate with Cornwall over recent month , include Camborne rugby club , and Redruth rugby club , which be celebrate its 150th anniversary , I know that there be deep and widespread unease at the current governance of english rugby . several grassroots community rugby club be reportedly on the financial brink . this issue be not restrict to Cornwall — club all over the country report the same issue . will the Leader of the House grant Government time to debate this important issue ? as ever , my hon . friend raise important issue for his constituent in Cornwall . I be sorry to hear of what be happen with rugby in his constituency . he might want to raise that next week at Department for Culture , Media and Sport question , but if he do not get a good reply , I will make sure that the Minister get back to he . a recent London Councils report highlight major issue in the capital with special educational need provision , workforce capacity and inclusion . in the light of that , I welcome the new Government ' s significant financial commitment to SEND . however , this year , Conservative Hillingdon council be propose a £ 7 million cut to school in my constituency , due to its own failure to manage the local SEND system . that will devastate SEND inclusion in local mainstream school . can we have a debate in the House to discuss SEND provision , and will my right hon . friend relay my concern to the Department concern ? I will relay my hon . friend ' s concern about what Hillingdon council be propose for special educational need and support for school . this Government have allocate an extra £ 1 billion for special educational need . we have also allocate significant extra money for local council . there really be no excuse for Hillingdon council to behave in this way . early this school year , the friary school , a secondary school in my constituency , hold a school - wide referendum , which include parent and the wide community , on lower the voting age to 16 . I be proud to say that this will be the topic for the Litchfield school speak competition , thank to the sponsorship of Arthur Price and the Rotary Club of St Chad . will the Leader of the House join I in commend the organiser of that referendum , head girl Emma Mackenzie , and agree that it be high time that we follow Emma ' s lead and have a debate on the topic in this place ? I congratulate Emma , and all those involve at the school , on highlight these issue . as my hon . friend be aware , vote at 16 be a Government manifesto commitment . we will bring forward legislation to make that a reality when parliamentary time allow — likely in a future session . I be sure that he will want to report that back to his school . with the recent poor weather , too many of my constituent have have sleepless night watch river gauge , fear a repeat of last year ' s flooding . could the Leader of the House assure I that we be do everything we can to combat flooding , and update I on our progress ? I thank my hon . friend for raise the issue . flooding be affect many more constituency and community , and be do so more often , as we see the effect of climate change on this country . we have a government - wide approach to tackle climate change , but also we be take step to make sure that our community have flood resilience and flood support . I will ensure that the House be keep up to date on development . wherever I go in my constituency , local resident raise with I the poor standard of the local bus service . one resident in Livingston Village tell I that the elderly and people with child be force to walk a long way , or pay for a taxi , to get to hospital appointment . Adambrae have lose its bus , and in Addiewell , Stoneyburn and Longridge , my constituent have to take multiple bus to get to the hospital . unfortunately , this be not unique to my constituency , as statistic show that local bus service in Scotland have collapse by 44 % since the SNP take charge . will the Leader of the House agree to a debate on the importance of local bus service to our constituent ? perhaps the SNP Government in Scotland can learn something from the UK Government about protect our bus service . I join my hon . friend in say how important local bus service be . that be why this government be take step to ensure well bus service here in England . the Scottish Government will receive almost £ 48 billion in the next financial year . they really should use that to support local service such as bus in his constituency . I welcome the Government ' s commitment to crack down on waste incinerator . in my constituency , I have campaign for 16 year against the Sinfin waste treatment centre , which fail initial testing in 2017 and have never be put into operational use . but the project continue , and over £ 150 million have be waste . it be clear that this incinerator need to be stop . where there be legitimate local , environmental and financial concern , as there be in Sinfin , we need to take the tough decision . will my right hon . friend allow time for a debate on the management of incinerator project ? I thank my hon . friend for that question . I think it be his first business question , and I welcome he . this government will back only those new waste incinerator project that meet strict new condition . this issue be raise with I a lot , so I encourage he to work with member from across the House — many other member have raise the issue — and get a Backbench Business debate on waste incinerator . we be see an alarming increase in heavily pregnant woman and family with complex medical need be ship in , sometimes in the middle of the night , to our asylum hotel . our area be abandon by the previous Government , and we have one of the bad hospital in the country , yet the previous Government put an asylum hotel in one of our most deprive ward . can we have a debate in Government time about the support we can give to our NHS worker who be work through this appalling legacy ? I be sorry to hear of the situation in my hon . friend ' s constituency . he will know that we inherit an asylum system that break under exceptional strain . we be commit to end the use of asylum hotel , but that will take time while we tackle the small boat , which we be do ; we have also put record level of funding into the national health service . however , he be absolutely right to raise this issue . if we do not get on top of the illegal and net migration figure , which be incredibly high , this will continue to put pressure on our national health service . prostate cancer cost the NHS around £ 93 million a year , but more than a third of those cost be avoidable through early diagnosis . prostate cancer remain the only major cancer in the UK without a national screening programme . I understand that request screening can be a real obstacle to some man , so I give heartfelt thank to my constituent Steve , who be fight prostate cancer , and who open up to I about the importance of help man to get a diagnosis early . will the Leader of the House allocate time for a debate on the target screening programme that be urgently need to address the gap and improve outcome for vulnerable group ? absolutely . what an important issue my hon . friend raise . as she may be aware , the UK national screening committee be undertake an evidence - lead review into prostate cancer screening , which be due to be complete soon . I will ensure that she and the House be update as soon as that happen . parent in my constituency be deeply worried about the prevalence of ketamine in our community , and staff at my local hospital tell I that an increase number of young people be present with serious harm cause by the drug , include life - last bladder damage . use of ketamine by young people in the UK be estimate to have triple since 2016 , so I be pleased this week to read that the Minister for Policing , Fire and Crime Prevention have seek advice on upgrade ketamine from a category c to a category b drug . will the Leader of the House join I in condemn criminal who peddle drug such as ketamine to child , and grant a debate on the important issue of tackle drug use in young people ? absolutely . many of we be see the dangerous impact of the rise in ketamine use across our constituency and in young people . my hon . Friend mention the action that minister have take ; we will do whatever it take to clamp down on the growth in ketamine use . will the Leader of the House join I in pay tribute to Criss Connor , who sadly die over the Christmas break ? Criss be a long - stand member of Labour , a former borough and county councillor and an honorary alderman of Basingstoke . Criss will be remember for not only his service to our community , but his kindness , passion and steadfast belief in fairness and justice . my thought be with his wife , Angela , his family and friend , and all who know he . will the Leader of the House consider hold a debate to enable hon . member across this House to pay tribute to dedicated public servant such as Criss ? what a beautiful tribute to Criss and all the work he do . I be sure that Criss ' s family and friend will have listen to my hon . friend ' s word with great comfort . councillor up and down this country do an enormously valuable job for our country and our community , and I be sure a debate on such a subject would be very well attend . will my right hon . friend join I in congratulate the young woman across the country who take part in the CyberFirst girl competition , and especially the winner in the Scotland section , Charlotte , Jess , Sania and Aoife of Hyndland secondary school in my constituency ? do she agree that it be increasingly important that girl be encourage to pursue an interest and , perhaps , a career in cyber security ? absolutely . what a fantastic achievement for Hyndland secondary school . I join my hon . friend in say that young girl should get into computing and cyber - security . let we not forget that Ada Lovelace write the world ' s first computer program . I have a large Sikh population in my constituency and have receive many letter from constituent express concern over transnational repression and political interference by the Indian Government , create risk to safety and security for Sikhs not only travel to India , but in this country . they have refer to the mysterious , sudden death of Avtar Singh Khanda in Birmingham in June 2023 , day before the assassination of the Sikh leader Hardeep Singh Nijjar in Canada . will the Leader of the House ensure that UK Ministers make representation to their indian counterpart on the need to respect and comply with the rule of law and the UK ' s sovereignty , for the safety and security of Sikhs in this country ? I know that my hon . friend ' s question will be welcome by the Sikh community across the UK . he raise very important issue relate to transnational aggression , and I will certainly ensure that minister have hear what he have say and that the House be update in due course . around 153 , 000 people in the UK be live with Parkinson ' s , include many of my constituent who have tell I about the difficulty they face in access treatment . I welcome the plan set out by the Health Secretary on health reform and investment , but may we have a specific debate on the challenge face by those with Parkinson ' s in the UK ? I absolutely join my hon . friend in say that we want a society where every person with a disease such as Parkinson ' s receive the high - quality care that they need and that they can afford . that be why we be take step to reform and invest in our social care sector . it will take some time and will not be easy to do , but I will ensure that this House be update at every stage . I recently meet two special educational need teacher in my constituency who be two of the thousand of teacher across Scotland who be owe million of pound in overpay taxis . unfortunately , his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs and the 16 local authority affect be at gridlock . will the Leader of the House consider grant time for a debate so that we can help to overcome this intolerable situation for our valuable public sector worker ? absolutely . this be the right place for my hon . friend to raise such an issue with I . I will ensure that minister look into the matter for she and get back to she with a full response . with the new year come the new year ' s honours list . will my right hon . friend join I in congratulate my friend and constituent Barry Hyde on be award the british empire medal for his exceptional voluntary contribution to our community in Rossendale and Darwen ? Barry , and thousand of volunteer like he , be at the heart of our community . will my right hon . friend agree to a general debate on the value of the voluntary sector to our society ? I will absolutely join my hon . friend in congratulate Barry Hyde on all his work . we hear time and again in business question about the crucial role that our community volunteer play in make our constituency great place to live and work . will the Minister join I in congratulate my constituent Audrey Mutongi - Darko , founder of the no . 1 Befriending Agency ? it be announce in the new year ' s honours list that she be to receive the british empire medal for service to tackle loneliness and isolation in old people in Scotland . will the Leader of the House arrange for an urgent debate to discuss how this Government can do more to help vulnerable old people and to tackle loneliness and social isolation ? I join my hon . friend in congratulate Audrey on her great achievement . yet again we be hear of the amazing work that our constituent do day in , day out to support other and to ensure that they can access the care and support they need . I will certainly consider a debate on the issue . a number of my constituent have grave concern about home be repurpose into house in multiple occupation without any requirement for planning permission . currently , planning permission be not need for home in Bolton with six or few bedroom , yet I know of three house in Horwich that be be redevelop into six - bedroom home without any oversight , with concern raise about parking and antisocial behaviour . will the Leader of the House therefore make Government time available for a debate on this important issue , to ensure that there be a level playing field across the country on planning requirement for HMOs ? we can all recognise the real issue that occur when unregulated HMOs take hold in community and the challenge they bring to community cohesion and in poor housing standard . I just announce that the Renters ' Rights Bill will be back in the Chamber next week , and that will be a great opportunity for my hon . friend to raise those issue . the Leader of the House will know that I be frequently contact by constituent from some of the most rural part of my constituency urge the Government to move swiftly with the manifesto commitment to extend the ban on trail hunting , which be a blight on rural community and encourage antisocial behaviour . may I echo that in the strong possible term and urge the Government to move on with that landmark legislation ? I thank my hon . friend for raise those issue . he will be aware that we have the most ambitious plan in a generation to improve animal welfare , and I have absolutely hear his call to look at that when parliamentary time allow . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . the Leader of the opposition say : " the Labour party have adopt the appg definition of ' Islamophobia ' . the same APPG report say that talk about sex groomer be an example of Islamophobia . " — [ Official Report , 8 January 2025 ; Vol . 759 , c . 839 . ] that be an inaccurate description of the all - party parliamentary group on british Muslims ' definition of Islamophobia . its definition cite the example of use the symbol and image associate with classic Islamophobia to characterise Muslims as sex groomer . can the Leader of the Opposition return to the Chamber to correct the record and confirm whether she agree that characterise Muslims as sex groomer be indeed an example of Islamophobia ? I be grateful to the hon . member for give notice of his point of order . as he will know , the Chair be not responsible for the Leader of the Opposition ' s comment in the Chamber , but he have succeed in put his point on the record , and no doubt that statement have be hear . violence against Women and Girls I beg to move , that this House have consider the matter of tackle violence against woman and girl . as thing stand today , the scale of violence against woman in this country be intolerable and a national emergency , so I welcome the opportunity for the House to unite and debate it . tackle violence against woman and girl in all its form be a top priority for the Government and central to our wide mission to make the country ' s street safe . let I be clear from the start that I condemn the threat against the Safeguarding Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) , in the strong possible term . they be abhorrent and demonstrate all too clearly how some man view woman ' s place in the world . I know that so many right hon . and hon . member have experience that kind of hateful misogyny online — threat and abuse level at we just for do our job — but we will continue to speak out ; we will not be silence . I be sure that the House will join I in offer my friend every support . [ hon . member : " hear , hear ! " ] the Government be elect on a landmark pledge to halve violence against woman and girl over the next decade , rightly put the issue at the forefront of the political agenda after year of neglect , and where woman have be let down by the system . it be an ambitious target , but it be absolutely right that we be ambitious when it come to the safety of woman and girl . in this country , it be estimate that a woman be kill by a man every three day , on average , yet that rarely make the headline . their death have become normalise and I think we , as a society , have become desensitise . that be nothing short of a national scandal . every woman lose be a daughter , a mother and a friend with her life brutally cut short . they be not statistic to I , and nor be they to the Government ; their life matter and we be determined to act . we will use every tool at our disposal to target perpetrator , protect victim and address the cause of this appalling abuse and violence . we will go far than ever before to transform how we work together across Government , public service , the private sector and charity , and our effort will be underpin by a new strategy to combat violence against woman and girl that we will publish later this year . as a first principle , prevention will always be well than cure , so if we be to tackle these crime we must start by tackle their root cause . education will be fundamental to our approach . we need a culture shift where abusive , harass and discriminatory behaviour be call out for exactly what it be , where woman be at last respect and champion and where every woman can be safe wherever they be , whether at work , at school , online , in the street or in their own home . woman make up over 50 % of society , but the mission share by those of we in the Chamber can not be achieve by half or by woman speak only to woman ; everyone need to play their part . man must be part of the conversation and part of the solution , and I be clear that there be many great male role model out there — many of they in this Chamber we need to understand why boy and young man be be draw down the rabbit hole of toxic masculinity that so often fuel these crime . critically , how can we step in , support they and steer they away from that ? no one agency can solve this alone . it will mean work across the House and across society with school , parent , police and the judiciary — everyone — if we be to make a difference for the next generation of woman . that be the approach the Government will take . secondly , we must ensure that our legal system be able to respond effectively to these crime so that woman be protect and perpetrator be swiftly bring to justice . I understand that there may be some difficulty with the criminal law in relation to people be follow . in the event that they have be actively harass and threaten , there be a potential crime in the threat , but there may be a gap in the criminal law for those who be simply follow , with that not be part of a continue course of conduct . will the Minister commit to look into that , please ? I thank my hon . friend for that intervention . we will happily look at that . we have already do some incredible work on stalk and harassment , but we will look to go far wherever possible . let we look at the offence of rape . as it stand , about 60 % of adult rape complainant , despite bravely come forward , eventually withdraw from the criminal justice process . that mean too many offender be get away with their crime and too many victim be be leave without the justice they deserve . often that be because the agony of a long wait for justice be much more than they can bear . it be a sad fact that some victim , and particularly those of sexual offence , be wait almost three year for their case to come to trial . some decide not to pursue their case at all , feel , quite understandably , that they need to focus on their own mental health and move on with their life . I once speak to a victim who tell I that she have be rape and her case have take year to come to trial . she tell I something that I will never forget : that the experience have make she want to die . that anyone should feel that way about our justice system be unconscionable . the Government be determined to do well . justice must be swifter . we will work with the judiciary to fast - track rape case through the court so that victim like she be not leave in limbo . there be no escape the Government ' s bleak inheritance of a criminal court system under the most intense pressure . nowhere be that more evident than in the Crown court , where the outstanding caseload stand at over 73 , 000 — a record high . we have take decisive action to drive the caseload down , fund an extra 2 , 000 sitting day , which will see court sit for a total of 108 , 500 day this financial year — the high level in almost a decade . we be also extend magistrate court sentencing power from six month to 12 month for a single triable either - way offence , which we expect will free up about 2 , 000 sitting day and allow judge to deal with the most serious case . but if victim be to see justice do more swiftly , we can not simply do more of the same ; we have to go far . it will take once - in - a - generation reform . that be why the Lord Chancellor have commission Sir Brian Leveson , one of the country ' s top legal mind , to carry out an independent review of the criminal court . Sir Brian will consider the merit of long - term reform during the first phase of the review . that could include consideration of an entirely new type of court entirely , intermediate court , in which case too serious to be hear by a magistrate alone could be hear by a judge flank by magistrate . the second phase of the review will consider how our court can operate more efficiently , and the timeliness of process . Sir Brian will report his finding later this year , and I be sure that member will await they with interest . as a third principle , we must ensure that the criminal law be equip to deal with the evolve range of threat that woman face today . I be sure the House agree that sexually explicit deepfake image be particularly appalling , and share my concern about the fact that this kind of abuse be on the rise . artificial intelligence technology now mean that perpetrator can , at the click of a button , turn innocent image from a person ' s social medium account into pornographic material — image that can then be share with million online , in millisecond . it be not funny . it be not banter . it be a gross violation of a woman ' s privacy and autonomy which cause untold harm , and it be disturbing to hear that a third of woman report fall victim to intimate image abuse . it can not continue unchecked . our law must protect victim and punish those responsible . that be why the Government make a clear manifesto commitment to ban the creation of these vile image , and it be why we be committed to tackle the creation of sexually explicit deepfake by introduce a new criminal offence in the policing and crime Bill . however , we be go far . while it be already a criminal offence to share , or threaten to share , an intimate image without consent , it be , quite bizarrely , an offence to take an image without consent only in certain circumstance . so - call up - skirting be an offence , while take photo down someone ' s blouse or set up camera in a change room be not . as I be sure the House will agree , that make little sense , so as I explain early this week , the Government will introduce new offence for the taking of intimate image without consent and the installation of equipment with intent to enable the taking of an intimate image without consent . we be send the clear message that this appalling , misogynistic behaviour will not be tolerate and that predator who violate woman ' s trust in this way will face the consequence , which could mean up to two year in custody , depend on the perpetrator ' s intent . as woman , Madam Deputy Speaker , we should not have to watch our friend ' drink while they go to the bathroom . we should not have to worry about be spike by a needle , or a vape . the Government will therefore introduce a new criminal offence cover spiking , and will work hand in hand with police and business leader to crack down on this behaviour so that woman can enjoy a night out without fear and victim be empower to come forward , know that they will be take seriously . I welcome the Government ' s announcement just before Christmas that spike will become a specific offence . will the Minister join I in commend the campaign work of my constituent Dawn Dines and the organisation Stamp out Spiking , and will she commit herself to work with Stamp out Spiking and other organisation to ensure that the new law and other issue relate to spike be embed in the knowledge of , in particular , police force around the country ? I will take every opportunity to commend Dawn Dines and the work of Stamp out Spiking . both the Safeguarding Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) , and I have meet Dawn Dines many time . we will , of course , be work with every single agency to ensure that we crack down on this abhorrent crime . in November , we announce pilot of domestic abuse protection notice and domestic abuse protection order with Greater Manchester police , in three London borough and with the British Transport police ; North Wales police and Cleveland police will come on board early this year . domestic abuse protection order will impose tough restriction on abuser and keep victim safe , make it a legal requirement for perpetrator to inform the police of any change of name or address , with the option to impose electronic tagging to keep tab on offender . they will also enable assessment for behaviour change programme to be order to prevent the cycle of abuse from be repeat . we need to stop this behaviour . fourthly , we must ensure that victim be give the right support , wherever they be in the justice process . we need they to be empower to come forward in the first place , whether to make a report or just to obtain the help that they need to rebuild their life . every woman should know that she be see , hear and take seriously — that be the kind of justice system to which we should aspire — but sadly that be not always the case , especially for those who have endure rape or other sexual offence . we be determined to improve woman ' s confidence in the justice system by ensure that it focus on perpetrator rather than point the finger of blame at victim . no one who have be burgle have be tell , " maybe you give the wrong signal , and he think you want to be burgle . " no one who have have their wallet steal have be ask , " what be you wear at the time ? " for far too long , the way in which survivor of rape and sexual offence have be treat have be unacceptable , and this Government be determined to stamp out those harmful , misogynistic stereotype . they be a threat to justice , and a threat to woman in all aspect of our society . my colleague the Lord Chancellor have announce the introduction of independent legal adviser who will offer free legal advice to victim of adult rape at any point from report to trial , help they to understand their right in relation to , for example , the use of personal information , such as counselling detail or medical record , to which access can be gain during an investigation . as will have be say in the House before , such demand have sometimes go too far , cause unnecessary upset to victim , compound their trauma and , on occasion , result in their dropping out of a case altogether . request of that kind should be make only when they be relevant , necessary and proportionate to the case . the adviser will not undermine the right to a fair trial or prevent evidence from come to light ; they will simply help victim to understand and , if necessary , take step to protect the right that they already have . more broadly , the Government will ensure that all victim know their right and that those right be uphold , and that they be support as they go through the justice process , not retraumatise when their day in court finally arrive . the victim code help victim to understand what they can expect from the criminal justice system , and set out the minimum level of service that they should receive . the Victims and Prisoners Act 2024 have the potential to improve awareness of and compliance with the victim code by ensure that the victim know about their right under the code , and it set out a new compliance framework to ensure that agency will be hold accountable for deliver those right . the Act also place a duty on local commissioner in England to collaborate in the commissioning of support service for victim of domestic abuse , sexual abuse and serious violence . we will soon consult on a revise victim code and the duty to collaborate guidance , and we will ensure that the right datum and system be be in place to monitor compliance with the new code . the Government have also pledge to increase the power of the Victims ' commissioner so that there be more accountability when victim ' need be not be meet . let I emphasise that while woman may suffer these horrific crime more often , I be well aware that many man be affect by domestic abuse and sexual violence . they too deserve every protection and support , and these measure will of course apply equally to they . let I also take a moment to thank victim support organisation . I be sure the House will agree that they be vital to the justice process : without they , many victim would struggle to see their case through , which mean that many more perpetrator would get away with their crime . as I have say , this Government inherit a criminal justice system under immense pressure , and a black hole in the nation ' s finance . while we have have to make difficult decision to deliver the justice that victim deserve , through the court and across the system as a whole , I be pleased that we have be able to protect dedicated VAWG victim spend in the Department by maintain the 2024 - 25 funding level , which have be ringfence for sexual violence and domestic abuse support next year . we want to ensure that help be available to survivor of these awful crime as they seek to rebuild their life . that include funding for independent sexual violence adviser and independent domestic abuse adviser , and be in addition to the core funding that the Department provide for police and crime commissioner to allocate at their discretion on the basis of their assessment of local need . as I have also say , the answer to these appalling crime do not lie with a single Government Department or agency . it demand a united effort across Departments , across the system and across society . we must all commit ourselves to ambitious change , and I know that everyone here today share that view . I look forward to hear from member in all part of the House , and to a productive debate that will move this important conversation forward as we collectively say , " enough be enough . " violence against woman and girl can have no place in our society , and every woman and girl deserve to live her life free from violence , abuse and harassment . I call the shadow Minister and my Sussex neighbour , Mims Davies . it be a pleasure to be call in this important debate to speak on behalf of his Majesty ' s loyal opposition . I welcome this general debate be call by the Government on such a topical issue as we return to the Chamber in the new year . it be important that there be a significant focus on woman and girl be hear in every single community . I agree with the Minister : enough be enough . that be one of the most magnificent campaign the Home Office could have come up with , and I applaud all those who work in the Department on this important issue and who be focus on protect woman and girl in every nation , region and community . I hear people be congratulate in business question on their award in the new year honour . one of those be Nicole Jacobs , the Domestic Abuse Commissioner , who I have the pleasure of work with , and I know that Ministers will enjoy work with she . let we all agree in the Chamber this afternoon and say clearly that we do not accept any abuse direct at we as Members of Parliament , Ministers and people speak up for woman and girl , such as that we have see in recent day . there be woman and girl in our community who want to know that we be here and be focus on keep they safe . when it come to domestic abuse or any kind of criminality aim at woman and girl in our community , criminality be criminality , wherever it be find . domestic abuse , wherever it be , must continue to be tackle . it can not remain untackled ; it must always be uncover . I welcome the measure that the Minister outline in her speech and the strategy , in term of education , support and the pursuit of justice , particularly in respect of deepfake and intimate image . I appreciate the focus on halve violence against woman and girl , but that be not enough . let we focus on pure eradication — that be one thing that those from all part of the House can agree on . we can equally agree on how wonderful Dawn Dines be . she have lead the Stamp out spike campaign and bring such energy to it . in my brief time work in the Department , I want to see a focus on an update spike law , so let we celebrate with Dawn when that come through . we very much welcome the protection order that have be bring forward . on behalf of my party , I want to thank and applaud all the charity , group and network that support survivor and victim , so that there be always someone to turn to . I would like to reiterate that : there be always someone to turn to , so please speak out . all too often , people feel that they will not be hear . sadly , there be a leap from rhetoric to intimidation and then potentially to violence when it come into the political arena . we need to ensure that that do not seep down into what victim feel might happen to they if they come forward and speak out . our man and young boy be key , as the Minister say . this be a partnership . everything in life and in the community be a partnership . I have the honour of co - chair the all - party parliamentary group on man and boy ' issue , and I ask the Minister to update the House on the man and boy ambassador and the ministerial work be do on this . it be the duty of any Government to keep their citizen safe , and I be proud of the work of the outgoing Conservative Government . we do our utmost to fulfil that job . in the face of the pandemic and the war on our continent , we focus on ensure that our constituent feel safe and that our commitment to this never waver . progress be well make when a Government build on the foundation of the previous one ; perhaps this fixing of the foundation be one area that we can agree on . it be therefore a little bit disappointing to see in the labour manifesto — some of we do read it — that " for too long , violence against woman and girl have be ignore . " I do not think that be the case , but let we not have 50 % of it ignore ; let we have the whole lot eradicate . let we ensure that the voice and the ask of the woman and girl in our community be listen to . in the last 24 hour there have be a vote on victim of groom gang , which be very difficult . we need to set the record straight on why the opposition be strongly focused on get agreement that no stone should be leave unturned on this issue . the previous Government accept 18 of the 20 recommendation in the important Jay review , and it be disappointing that the legislation could not be agree on before the change of Government , although it be put forward in the wash - up — a techie term , for people watch . ultimately , we want to tackle the issue , and my party be again determined to work with the Government to get this moving . the last Conservative Home Secretary to focus on groom gang be my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Fareham and Waterlooville ( Suella Braverman ) , who rightly set up the taskforce that lead to 500 further arrest and over 4 , 000 more victim protect . in all the hubbub of the last day or two , what be important be that the question of victim and survivor be answer on the recommendation of the independent inquiry into child sexual abuse . the taskforce set up under the Conservative Government work with 43 force in England and Wales on support investigation into child sexual exploitation and grooming . it be right to give our police officer on the frontline the support they need to tackle this scandal . the Minister rightly talk about justice , but it must start with come forward to the police . I completely agree with she : the crucial step of come forward and say what have happen be the brave and hard thing imaginable for a young child or woman who know that the people around they should have be protect they . we need to ensure that the police be there for they . as a vital next step , let we all agree to collect the datum on ethnicity . let we not shy away from this . let we get it and share it . this be at the heart of the matter . People feel that political correctness should not hold we back . to protect all victim from sexual abuse and abhorrent crime , no stone should be unturned . this be further and wide than what IICSA investigate , which be why my party believe that a far - reach inquiry be urgently need . there be nothing in the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill . as my hon . friend the Member for Keighley and Ilkley ( Robbie Moore ) say , nobody in the Chamber should feel that they can not raise on the Floor of the House , without fear or favour , something that be happen in their constituency . that be what we come here to do . no one should ever feel afraid of raise any issue in this Chamber with I or anybody else . to reiterate , the ethnicity datum be collect . it be publish for the first time in November , and I be not entirely sure why the opposition keep insist that it have not be publish . to be honest , the datum that have start to be collect under their government be not good enough , and we will be work to improve it , but ethnicity datum be collect and publish . I thank the hon . Lady for come to the Dispatch Box to give that undertaking to the House . our friend Sajid Javid and other be keen to ensure that that be out there . I be sure that will reassure the House . I want to go a bit far on that datum . do the hon . member accept that in the 2022 police report on child sexual exploitation , where there be more than two perpetrator , the ethnicity datum point to 76 % of the perpetrator be white , 9 % be black and 9 % be asian ? I thank the Chair of the Women and Equalities Committee ; hers be a welcome voice for woman and girl . I agree with she : we be keen to look at the datum . what have be underscore this week , however , be that some people feel that we have not get to the broad extent of the issue . that be why some people feel disappointed . let I broaden our discussion of VAWG . significant measure be introduce by the former Conservative Government , include a rapid increase in the number of police officer and the introduction of the all - important law enforcement tool that they need in community to listen to victim and act on their behalf . new legislation be introduce — crucial legislation that the Government be rightly build on — in the form of the Conservatives ' landmark Domestic Abuse Act 2021 , which be pass to recognise the more insidious form of abuse that blight victim ' life , often before they realise it themselves . Lady Theresa May and other have campaign against those insidious form of abuse , which can also lead to gateway crime in other area . on VAWG specifically , a further domestic abuse plan be launch in 2021 , with over half the commitment complete by the previous Conservative Government . many people will remember that , crucially , it bring young child and family member into the purview of domestic abuse . other strategy include spend £ 6 . 6 million on deliver intervention to improve our understanding of what work in prevent violence against woman and girl ; ensure the consistency of support service through the introduction of the national commission standard of the victim funding strategy , to which the Minister allude ; and launch the VAWG support and specialist service fund , with £ 8 . 3 million to support victim who face barrier to come forward . the Worker Protection ( Amendment of Equality Act 2010 ) Act 2023 bring in a new duty for employer to take reasonable step to prevent sexual harassment of employee . from my time at the Department of Work and Pensions , I know that talk to people about what be go on in their world and bring it forward to their employer be often a gateway for people to be able to move to safety . we deliver £ 150 million of funding for the safe street fund and the safety of woman at night fund , with a range of project help to improve public safety . sussex ' s police and crime commissioner Katie Bourne and other will know about that . importantly , we have the national domestic abuse helpline , other helpline on revenge porn and the Suzy Lamplugh Trust national stalk helpline , and I welcome the Minister ' s comment on that . through the important flexible support fund , we provide a furth £ 2 million to remove the additional barrier that domestic abuse victim face when leave their abuser , which can be costly . domestic abuse be in every corner of our country and at every economic level . People perceive that only certain woman and certain family can be affect by this matter , which often stop those who be in fear come forward . I know that Labour member like to conclude that we do nothing for 14 year , but let I quickly remind they that we win four election . we do not do nothing on woman and girl ; we make a real and tangible difference in tackle violence against woman and girl . I be sure that we all agree this afternoon that there be always more to be do in every nation , region and community . my hon . friend be make a very effective speech and show that this be a process , not an event . government have be work hard on this issue for many year , and this year mark 10 year since the introduction of the coercive control offence , which I be very proud to take through as a Minister in the Serious Crime Act 2015 . that be the kind of change that government have build on and work on , and we be all on the same page on this issue . I thank my right hon . friend for her work . we in this House will go wherever this issue take we in every community . what be crucial be that victim and , equally , perpetrator know that VAWG will be tackle and that we will act in uniformity where we can . rightly , the Minister mention that we ban upskirte and end the so - call rough sex defence . we introduce the offence of non - fatal strangulation and , through the Police , Crime , Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 , end the automatic halfway release for serious violent and sexual offender . from my time at the Department for Digital , Culture , Media and Sport , I remember that we extend the " position of trust " focus on sport coach and faith leader . the Minister rightly talk about the court process and the feeling of justice ; what would be the point of let people out halfway through their sentence ? I remind the House that , sadly , the Labour party do not always support we , but now it be in government . woman ' s charity have continue to express concern about the Government ' s early release scheme , include woman ' s aid back in October . follow the first wave of release last month , we have see our long - stand concern come to fruition . on behalf of Women ' s aid , I ask Ministers to reiterate the importance of tackle this matter . on the early release of perpetrator , the issue be not necessarily finance but the mental health of their victim . in this afternoon ' s debate we need to think about the woman and girl — our constituent — grow up in our community and family . we will continue to have a thoughtful examination of the fact , find a way forward to tackle this set of horrendous crime , and give woman and girl the confidence to come forward and have it tackle . I call the Chair of the Women and Equalities Committee . I thank the Government for provide time for this incredibly important debate . the debate be timely , but unfortunately it be always timely to discuss violence against woman and girl , give the issue that we face . I thank the Minister for her opening remark , and for show the dedication that she have throughout her work life as an MP to make our space — online , in person , at home or at work — safe for all of we . why be we here to discuss violence against woman and girl ? it be because we live in a country where 97 % of record rape go unpunished . that be an improvement on the 98 % that go unpunished just a few year ago . if they do get process , it take year for victim to fight through the backlog for justice , as we have hear . we know that over 80 woman be kill by man last year . the true figure be probably much more , because at least 11 case of woman ' s murder be still to be solve . as the Minister rightly say , a woman be kill every three day at the hand of a man . the revenge porn helpline deal with 9 , 000 case every year , and the number be increase . we be increasingly see man and boy become victim of sextortion , but the victim of revenge porn and non - consensual intimate image abuse be predominantly woman , and the problem be only go to get bad with new AI technology and nudification app . one in three woman have be sexually assault , so the chance be that we will know woman and girl — see they , work with they and cross path with they every single day — who have be victim . give the level of under - reporting in this country , we can assume that they have probably be sexually assault multiple time . we live in a world in which Iraq have lower the age of consent for girl to nine year old . in the Democratic Republic of the Congo , woman and girl describe their body as be an extension of a battlefield . M é decin Sans Fronti è re estimate that at least 25 , 000 woman have be rape by militia in Congo . if that be too far afield for member or people at home to empathise with the seriousness of the situation for woman and girl not just in this country but across the world , what about the group of 70 , 000 man in Germany who share tip on how to rape , how to drug , how to get away with sexual assault , and how to wreak revenge on woman and girl ? just in Germany , 70 , 000 man share those tip . can we guarantee that something similar be not happen close to home ? probably not . we be about to witness the inauguration of a President who openly boast about grab woman " by the pussy , " enable by the rich man in the world , Elon Musk — who , on the one hand , have pretend over the last few week to care about the victim of sexual violence while , on the other hand , target and incite hatred against the Under - Secretary of State for the Home Department , my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) , call she an " evil witch . " that be dig deep into historical misogyny . how long have powerful woman who stand up be constantly call a witch , or something that rhyme with it ? I be pretty sure that most of we have be call something similar for stand up to those in power . the hypocrisy of this man continue . he help to elect a man who have lose another lawsuit against a woman who claim that he rape she — a man who have 26 claim of sexual assault against he . we have member of this House who champion both those man . we often share this Chamber with a man who have be convict of kick a woman , and with other who think that be acceptable . sadly , violence against woman and girl do not start or end with politic and war . as we have hear , society ' s view of woman be such an important part of this . in 2025 , where be we as a society when it be okay for 70 , 000 man to get together to share tip on how to rape and sexually assault woman and get away with it ? what be our place in this world ? what be the place of woman and girl in this world ? be our institution design for we ? be they work for we ? be our service actually protect or support we ? for over a decade , when it come to health , the police and justice , no one can say that be clearly the case . we have be fail by institution and individual , which be why many of we still ask our friend to text we to say that they have get home safely . it be why many of we will not run at night , and why many of we wear just one earphone , if that , when we be walk around . it be why we carry key in our pocket , roll up in our hand . it be why we have to explain to our daughter what be appropriate and what be not , and it be why we should also explain that to our son . all of this happen , and continue to happen , to woman and girl , and more so if they be black , asian or minority ethnic , if they be disabled or if they be LGBT , which be why I be so grateful that we have a plan of action for halve violence against woman and girl . that sound like an incredible aim — an impossible task — but I hope it be not . I have print just one page , but the measure that will happen under this Labour Government to tackle violence against woman extend over many page . the one I pick out be , first , that there will be domestic abuse specialist in every 999 control room , which will be life - change for those with the bravery to pick up the phone and say , " I be be abuse by a love one . " rape case will be fast - track through the court . we have hear that justice delay be justice deny . the minuscule number of report rape case that actually find their way to court be be drag out to the extent that people give up hope . ban the creation of deepfake and non - consensual intimate image be hugely important . the Women and Equalities Committee have hear evidence from brave survivor and victim of this cruel , degrading abuse . the impact that have , and continue to have , on their life do not match the punishment that perpetrator currently face . I be grateful that we will see a minimum two - year sentence for these offence . the Government be seek to ensure that all victim of violence be see , support and protect , particularly migrant woman and girl , as well as black , asian and minority ethnic , LGBT + and disabled woman and girl . we can receive abuse and violence for multiple reason — because we be a woman and because we be an ethnic minority , or because we be a woman and because we be disabled . Hatred never stay in one lane , or at least not for very long . these measure be all need and , in many area , they have be neglect for year . we can not take our eye off the ball , because there be those who seek to sell off our right and freedom to the high bidder on the world stage . violence against woman and girl do not come out of nowhere . I do not believe that any child be bear with hatred in their heart and their mind . no baby boy be bear think that he have a right over a woman ' s body , or the right to abuse or rape she . it be society that instil that belief . before upskirte become a specific criminal offence , people say it be " just a laugh " . do the hon . member think we have a massive problem in society when offence against woman be dismiss as just a laugh and see as acceptable ? yes , and that be why I want to talk about why society need to move on . we can implement all these measure in the criminal justice system to make sure that the right people get the right support when they need it , but ultimately , we need to see the societal change that the hon . Member outline to ensure that we be not here have the same discussion 10 year down the line . it be so important to address how society view not just woman but man . what make a good man ? what make a good boy , and which man should he aspire to become ? I be look forward to hear more about the man and boy ambassador , but who be boy aspire to become at the moment ? unfortunately , it be the man who shout the loud and have the most money , even if they get their money , power and influence through the sex trafficking of woman or by start new political party for " bros " . this be nothing new , sadly . whether it be the Harrods scandal , Harvey Weinstein or Jeffrey Epstein , we see the same pattern , time and again , of influence , power and money make they unaccountable to anybody until it be far too late . the answer to that be good role model , and there be plenty of they . there be so many . be a strong , good man be very different from be the man I have highlight . I be lucky to work alongside some of they , I be lucky to call some of they my friend , and I be really lucky to have some of they in my family . it be also about hold up a mirror to the man who use their power , position and money to try to crush woman and girl , and who see it as a badge of honour , rather than the badge of shame that it should be . what path lead a man to conclude that it be okay to rape someone ? what path lead a man to believe that woman be just commodity to buy , sell and traffic to please his need ? what kind of man use his body to kick , punch and strangle woman ? how hollow be the shell of a man who get his kick from send intimate video or photo of a girl to embarrass or degrade she ? unfortunately , just as we know many good man , we also know bad man . we work alongside they , and they be around every day of our life , in every part of our life . we like to paint rapist , perpetrator of sexual assault and predator as monster or something " other " , but if we think about the statistic of sexual violence and rape that be highlight early , we see that those man walk among we . young boy need well role model than those promote on x , Telegram and soon , I fear , Meta . I want to end by talk about the people who embody the mirror that ensure shame be reflect on those who deserve it : gis è le Pelicot and every other victim of abuse who step forward . gis è le Pelicot be drug by her husband and rape by 51 man — betray by the person who should have love and cherish she . as with so many case of violence against woman and girl , it be a suppose love one — a close one . she waive she right to anonymity because she feel the " shame must change side " . she could not be more right , but be we up to that challenge ? will woman and girl stop be blame and shame , and will male perpetrator actually be hold to account ? we be see action , but with technology we be always play catch - up . the founder of the website that host the ad place by Gis è le Pelicot ' s husband to recruit his wife ' s rapist have just be arrest in France . I be grateful that this Government be introduce measure to tackle online abuse and violence against woman , but we can not let up . we have to continue . during my Committee ' s most recent inquiry into non - consensual intimate image abuse , we hear that police officer be hand device contain intimate image back to the perpetrator . that be a ludicrous situation , so I be grateful that the Minister outline that there will be strengthen of the code to ensure that no perpetrator of NCIIs will have device or material relate to the original offence return to they . we need to continue the fight against violence against woman and girl , because it be never win in the first place . perpetrator be use new technology to evade justice and to inflict great harm . I will end with the word of Gis è le Pelicot after the verdict against her husband and her rapist be give . she say : " I now have confidence in our capacity to find a well future where everyone , woman and man alike , can live in harmony with respect and mutual understanding . " my goodness , I wish I share her confidence , but I do share her hope . much of that rest on the Government ' s aim to halve violence against woman and girl , and that the next generation of woman have fire in their belly , and a hunger for change and equality in their heart . that be very powerful indeed . I call the spokesperson for the Liberal Democrats . nine year ago or thereabout , I be sit in a courtroom support victim of domestic abuse . I see at first hand how our system of justice be fail woman and girl when they be at their most vulnerable . that be my first motivation to enter politic , and it be a privilege to stand here and speak today , in this Chamber , in honour of all the woman and girl who have face abuse , violence , misogyny , harassment , stalk , spike , non - consensual image abuse and everyday sexism . violence against woman and girl be systemic . it transcend constituency boundary and national border , and it be embed in a global culture of discrimination and inequality that be even present in this House . I have hear casual sexism roll off the tongue as a female mp ' s domestic context be use as a reason she should not progress . to those who believe that feminism have go too far or that equality be here , I say this : the evidence show otherwise . as if all the shocking statistic we have hear so far be not enough , here be some more . there be still a 13 % gender pay gap . some 41 % of woman provide unpaid care for child , grandchild , old people or people with a disability , compare with 25 % of man . despite significant progress , we still do not have a Parliament that be representative of society with 50 % woman . this inequality manifest itself in discrimination across our system , which just do not work for woman . our society still see femininity as " less than " , and too much violence be tolerate . some 3 , 000 crime of violence against woman and girl be record every day , and that be just a tiny part of the story . we have hear already about the number of woman murder every week by a partner or ex - partner , a figure that have not change in decade . at least one in four woman have be rape or sexually assault since the age of 16 , and hundred of thousand of crime against woman and girl every year have an online element . give the fear and shame around report , it be certain that in reality , the figure be significantly high . a woman in a domestic abuse situation will experience an average of 35 assault before call the police . we be not talk about a few isolated incident ; 2 . 3 million people age 16 year and over experience domestic abuse in the year end March 2024 . those number seem abstract , but they represent real woman , real child and real life . that violence be enable by a bedrock of inequality and a culture of disbelief . the experience of woman and girl be ignore , deprioritise and doubt . the Jay report on child sexual exploitation — yes , the same report on which the former Government take no action — find in 2022 that individual and institution often think child be lie when they try to disclose what be be do to they , and find that victim be frequently blame for their own sexual abuse . we be not beyond the day of say , " she be ask for it . " that disbelief have consequence for abuser . last year , few than three in 100 rape record by the police result in someone be charge in the same year . the Government must do what the previous Government do not : tackle violence against woman and girl head - on . I support the Government ' s ambition to halve violence against woman and girl in a decade . it be a bold aim , but a vast undertaking . to achieve it , we must have cultural and legislative change . we have the opportunity in this House to create law that not only protect woman and girl , but effect significant cultural shift . pass the Domestic Abuse ( Aggravated Offences ) Bill , introduce by my hon . friend the Member for Eastbourne ( Josh Babarinde ) , would enable domestic abuse to be consider an aggravating factor in assault case . that would distinguish it from other offence , and its severity and gravity could be understand more clearly . the Bill would exclude domestic violence perpetrator from scheme for early release from prison , and protect survivor of domestic abuse . in a survey conduct for a Crown Prosecution Service report on prosecution of rape and sexual offense , 92 % of CPS staff agree that current court backlog inhibit the prosecution of rape and serious sexual assault . the Government must address these backlog , improve safety for woman in the justice system , and fully support the staff who be work daily to support victim of trauma and abuse . training of those who work with victim be of the utmost importance , but have not be prioritise . from my previous work support victim , and from my casework , I know that victim of domestic violence have have their and their advocate ' s safety compromise because detail have be share with an abuser by someone work in the statutory service . all report and information surround domestic abuse must be handle with exceptional sensitivity . that highlight the need for more specialist training , not just for our police force — that will be welcome — but in social service . the majority of case in child ' s social care involve domestic abuse , but the training do on it as part of social work qualification be insufficient . we must ensure that funding for service support survivor of domestic abuse be sufficient and secure . charity that provide refuge and community service for victim inherently require long - term decision and planning , but be frequently leave with one - year funding agreement and one - off grant that limit their capacity to operate effectively . what about the man ? I be pleased to see that a debate on paternity leave be extremely well attend by male mp , who clearly want more time with their child . I be also pleased to see so many man support this debate . Unpaid caring work be still disproportionately do by woman , but man be also disadvantaged , as valuable time with love one be lose . our culture maintain an imbalance in expectation and opportunity for both man and woman . the UK ' s two week of statutory paternity leave lag far behind the entitlement in most advanced economy , and I call on the Government to make improvement to all parental leave , so that parent in every family have the opportunity to bond with their child in those first crucial month . financial independence be a significant factor in woman be able to leave an abusive partner , so for both man and woman , we need to tackle the gender pay gap . we also need to tackle paternity leave , pay for carer , violence and issue with the criminal justice system , so that we stop see femininity as " less than " . we must tackle all aspect of inequality that underpin violence against woman and girl for justice to become a reality . I be glad that we be discuss this most important issue today . the National Police Chiefs ' Council rightly state last year : " violence against woman and girl be a national emergency . " action must be take against our societal epidemic of violence , include sexual violence , against woman and girl , and I be glad that the Government be commit to halve it in a decade . I will do my part to ensure that promise be deliver . we rightly talk a lot — although not nearly enough — in this place about victim . they must be at the heart of our work . society have reach a place where most of we can accept the fact that we will all know victim of domestic or sexual violence . how could we not , with the National Police Chiefs ' Council ' s statistic show that approximately one in 12 woman will be a victim in any give year , and as many as one in three over the course of a lifetime ? violence against woman and girl be endemic in our country . it happen all around we and be commit by people — mainly man — whom we all know , and often trust and love . societally , that be the aspect with which we have fail to grapple . even though we accept that we know victim , far few people can accept that they know perpetrator . instead , the 3 , 000 offence that happen each day , which leave behind psychological wreckage , seem to be rhetorically and conceptually drive by some sort of mysterious , passive , abstract force . it may be tempting to imagine that predator and perpetrator be unusual and could be identify if only we ditch our politically correct attitude . however , that ignore the majority of abuse that take place . worse , it lead to a complacency that make woman and girl more vulnerable . it be easy , psychologically and societally , to hold to the idea that sexual violence be a rare thing , perpetrate by monster that we can spot a mile off . find any excuse to delegitimise those who come forward — for example , by victim blaming , or by have preconceive idea about how a " real " victim would behave — be key to uphold that . we see excuse make constantly for such behaviour , include in this place , and often by people who claim to be feminist or christian , but who do not demonstrate any of the value that they claim to hold when it come to have to confront the behaviour of someone in their circle . it be easy to immediately accept the abuser ' s wholesale narrative and deflect , minimise , deny , defend or rubbish the victim ' s credibility than to accept that someone we know be not only capable of that type of violence , but have perpetrate it . that tendency be at its most egregious when there be an institutional failure of reckoning , but all institution be make up of individual who share in and perpetuate that culpability . even in the vanishingly rare case in which someone be successfully convict for domestic or sexual violence , we need only look at the comment online about how they have be " hard do by " or be " such a nice neighbour " and " couldn ' t possibly have do it " . we all know that the vast majority of case will never even make it that far , so what then ? let we be clear . accord to the National Police Chiefs ' Council , " 1 in 20 people be estimate to be perpetrator of VAWG per year " . many of those will be repeat perpetrator . we will all know at least one of they . they hide in plain sight . they may very well be the last person we expect to be a perpetrator , and they know exactly what they be do . failure to acknowledge that mean force victim to carry the shame that belong to their abuser . we can not say that we support victim come forward if we can not reconcile the fact that everyone here and everyone watch will know perpetrator of that form of violence . if we be to turn the tide , we need well education . we need more honest discussion of woman ' s safety and man ' s role . we need cultural change to identify and call out abusive behaviour . we need structure that believe woman and girl and take misconduct seriously . we need investment in mental health and victim support service far above that currently on offer , include in the Criminal Injuries Compensation Authority , and support from independent sexual violence adviser and independent domestic violence adviser . we also need a justice system that work , that can deliver timely justice and in which woman can have faith that they will not be far traumatise , as happen all too often , when seek justice . fundamentally , we all — in this place and right across society — need the courage to be more honest with ourselves about what we collectively look away from because it be too difficult . if we be ever go to hold perpetrator accountable and create and sustain a culture where woman ' s and girl ' safety be the norm , not the exception , that be where we need to begin . I be not expect be call so early . I be grateful for the opportunity to take part in this important debate . I have take part in many debate on these topic over the year , and they show the House at its good , because they be when we come together . this House , when speak with one voice in our determination to tackle these issue , be incredibly powerful . what we say be hear beyond these wall ; it be hear by law enforcement , the judiciary , the medium and other . I be grateful for this chance to speak together and come together to find way to tackle horrendous crime . as I say in my intervention on the shadow Minister , we be talk about a process , not an event . we be all work towards the eradication of these crime , and make they socially unacceptable in our country , but that be a massive challenge . anybody — any Government — who stand still on this issue will go backwards , because the offence change and technology enable new offence . when I be a Minister in the Home Office , the idea of deepfake imagery or even revenge porn be simply not come across my desk . it simply be not happen ; the technology be not there . we all have to be on our guard , and must make sure that we all work towards tackle those crime . I agree with the Minister , who make a powerful speech , that this be not a problem that can be solve only by woman . woman and girl be predominantly the victim , but we need man to be part of the solution , and I be grateful to see so many man in the Chamber today . there have be too many occasion when take part in this sort of debate have feel like be in a woman - only club . we need man to be part of the solution and to work with we . I have sit where the Ministers be sit , and I suspect that I have feel the frustration that they be feel . I have probably feel what one of the Ministers — the Under - Secretary of State for the Home Department , the hon . member for Birmingham Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) — be feel particularly acutely this week , have be through many medium onslaught on social medium and otherwise over the year . I have immense sympathy for what she be go through . there be frustration as well because the lever that can be pull by a Minister to resolve these issue be really quite limited . we can legislate — of course we can — but the police need to understand what the crime look like . I refer here to my take the coercive control offence through Parliament 10 year ago . I remember the medium at the time say , " why on earth be you do this ? there be no way that this can ever be prosecute . there be no way that anyone can ever understand it . there be no way that they can ever get the evidence . " I remember say to one journalist , " so be that your answer — just don ' t do it , because it ' s too hard ? " surely we need to do these difficult thing , but we also need to recognise that see the fruit of our labour will take a long time and that these thing do not change overnight . my right hon . friend be make an important point . do she agree that this House have to legislate in order to lead cultural change in our country ? furthermore , do she support some of the work that the Government be do in exactly that direction ? I do agree with my right hon . friend : I fully support what the Government be do and I fully support their aim and goal . we might have slightly different way of get there , but all of we in this House want the same thing . we need to be supportive . if we scrutinise the Government and suggest area where they might improve their position or their policy , it be not a criticism of their intent ; it be merely that we think there may be other way of do thing or that there may be improvement that could be make . I take such suggestion when I be a Minister in the faith in which they be intend , and I hope that that will happen here . I be certain that , with the two Ministers on the Front Bench , that will absolutely be the case . early , I be talk about the lever that can be pull . when those lever need to be enforce by law enforcement , local authority , the health service or education , there be a real frustration that there be not a simple direction that can be give so that everyone understand the change that , as a Minister , one want to see . that be why cross - departmental work be so important . I believe that inter - ministerial group be be deploy again , which be an excellent step , and I wholeheartedly congratulate the Government on that . when I be a Minister , such group be so , so important . we must also ensure that there be a multi - agency work . we have to make sure — I see this myself as a Minister — that the police be not the point of last resort . I remember go to visit the A & E at the Royal Stoke , my local acute hospital , 10 year ago and see the domestic violence specialist spot the sign of domestic abuse . that be vital . so , too , be the schoolteacher recognise that when the child be come to school late every day , or miss their class , something be wrong and action need to be take . we can not always leave this to the police and law enforcement . we must make sure that there be multi - agency working . have domestic abuse specialist in 999 centre and emergency centre be another a good step . I introduce a VAWG strategy in 2016 when I be a Minister . another one be introduce in 2021 , and I know that we will get another one soon . I be certain that that will be victim focus . these be crime that can not be tackle without put the emphasis on the victim . but all victim be different . the abuse that one victim have suffer will be different from that of another victim . let we be clear : get someone who have be a victim of one of these most horrendous of crime to accept that they be a victim be incredibly difficult . to be brave enough to pick up the phone to dial 999 be a really big step , because that victim have probably be endure the abuse over many , many occasion . she do not believe that she be a victim . she think that she be in control . she think that she can deal with this problem without involve the authority . we have to get to the point where victim be able to accept that they be victim and where we give they the support that be need . that be why the multi - agency approach be so important . a victim of female genital mutation will be different from a victim of modern slavery , and a victim of domestic abuse will be different from a grooming victim . they all have individual need . even within the category , there will be different need . it may be well for some victim of domestic abuse to remain in their home and for the perpetrator to be remove and tackle . [ interruption . ] absolutely . I see the hon . member for Birmingham Yardley do a thumb away sign . I totally agree with she . however , for other victim that will simply not be practical . there need to be place of safety that those victim can be take to . those place of safety need to be different for each victim . a mother with child need a different place from a young girl , and that young girl need a different place from somebody who have severe learning disability , mental health issue or addiction . there be all sort of problem that victim face — often cause by the abuse — and they need different approach . I have make the point about multi - agency working , but we can not arrest our way out of the problem . there need to be a strategy that look across all aspect of the four Ps , as they use to be call in my time at the Home Office — the pursuit , protect , prevent and prepare strand . we need to make sure that we take every step possible . I welcome the ringfencing of funding that the Minister talk about . I be keen to make sure that police , fire and crime commissioner and mayor who have responsibility for these area have the correct funding to commission the service that they need to support victim . my final point be on the online world . not only do new offence get create , but the online world have provide a place of safety for perpetrator . behaviour that be simply unacceptable offline be something that be normalise , socialise and anonymised online . a person can go online and find somebody who have a similar interest to they in something that be totally and utterly unacceptable . they have some image that they can share . they do not know who they be deal with , so therefore it be fine . they can look at those image because nobody know that it be they , nobody know what they do in the real world , and nobody know that they be look at they . it also seem absolutely normal , because everybody else be do it in this room . this be an incredibly difficult thing to solve . it be really difficult to get normal policing method to work in this environment . my right hon . friend be make a valuable point about the danger online . do she agree that one of the big threat be the incel community ? this highlight the need to approach violence against woman and girl from a public health perspective , because we can not just rely on the police to deal with it . often there be mental health issue and all sort of family breakdown challenge . do she agree that tackle the incel issue be vital in this environment ? I absolutely agree with my hon . friend . this be something that have to start in school and in the workplace . we need to ensure that all of society appreciate , understand and get behind this . to conclude , I start the internet safety strategy as the Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport . I be pleased that we have the Online Safety Act 2023 , but if the Government wish to do more , they have my wholehearte support . I might scrutinise their work , but I will support they . I wish to acknowledge that I have have the privilege of work alongside the Under - Secretary of State for the Home Department , my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) , for a number of year while I work in the domestic abuse sector . she be a one - woman safeguard service . member from across the House would ask for her advice , so frequently she would advocate for victim when other be unable to do so or when no other service would come to their aid . she have do more for abused woman than anyone at X or in the Reform party , Members of which have not appear here today . I therefore add my voice to those condemn the attack on she and on other who have spend so long try to fight for victim of domestic abuse and sexual violence . have spend my career work to prevent violence against woman and girl , I be dismay and frankly disgust by the way the issue of child sexual abuse , mostly against vulnerable girl , have recently be exploit by political opportunist for their own gain . to see the way people both in and outside the House have speak about this issue , as if victim and survivor be a political football to be kick about because of the pass interest of social medium - craze billionaire and their political servant , have be disgraceful . we do not need empty rhetoric or opportunism ; we need action , and we need it now . the independent inquiry into child sexual abuse , lead by Professor Alexis Jay , publish its report in 2022 , after a seven year - long process that engage with more than 7 , 000 victim and survivor , many of they girl . it process 2 million page of evidence and publish 61 report and publication . it spend two year work on an inquiry into child sexual exploitation and groom specifically . in the last three year , I work closely with colleague across the child ' s sector , include survivor of child sexual abuse , to ensure that the previous Government implement the inquiry ' s recommendation . I be grateful to the Government for have say that they will take many of they forward , but as organisation such as the National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children and the National Association for People abuse in Childhood have argue , what we need now , and crucially what victim and survivor urgently deserve , be for the recommendation to be implement . I have be shock by the lack of progress that we have make as a country in tackle violence against woman and girl . I pay tribute to hon . member across the Chamber who have make a number of big step to ensure that woman and girl be safe , most notably through the Domestic Abuse Act , but despite the change that we have make in this House , the problem be only get bad . it have be drive by technological change and exacerbate by cut over the last few year to the provision of support for victim and survivor and those at risk . the financial situation face local specialist charity , for example , be acutely concern , particularly as many , such as Suffolk Rape Crisis in my area , have be force to close . I totally understand the financial pressure face the Government due to the huge black hole the Conservatives leave , but charity such as woman ' s aid and Victim Support have raise real concern after cut be make to grant in the core victim service budget for police and crime commissioner , at the same time as they be have to grapple with national insurance contribution increase . after terrible cut for many year , service be face with the spectre of have to think about whether they need to close , just as we start our mission as a Government to halve violence against woman and girl . victim deserve to be , and should have a right to be , adequately support and keep safe from further harm . service such as the Waveney Domestic Violence and Abuse Forum in my constituency support hundred of victim without any statutory funding , yet the work that they do be high risk and specialist , and save woman ' s life . specialist service need long - term , sustainable funding arrangement . we in this place should look to formulate a new statutory duty to commission service for victim of domestic and sexual abuse , both adult and child , and thereby end the postcode lottery that leave too many vulnerable woman and child to fend for themselves . that would meet a key recommendation of the IICSA review , which be to ensure that all child victim of sexual abuse be offer specialist therapeutic support . similarly , give the significant harm and trauma cause by grow up be expose to domestic abuse , we need to address the critical shortage of child independent domestic violence adviser . one in five child experience domestic abuse grow up , yet there be barely any service to support they . the domestic abuse charity SafeLives have estimate that an additional 1 , 900 chidva be need to meet the need of child identify in domestic abuse case . we also need to look at the driver behind man ' s violence against woman and girl . as an officer of the all - party parliamentary group on commercial sexual exploitation , I would like to raise the issue of pornography . woman be the target of both physical and verbal aggression in 94 % of scene in pornographic content , and most of the time the aggressor be man . one woman involve in the pornography industry describe her experience : " I be be hit and choke . I be really upset and they didn ' t stop . they keep film . I ask they to turn the camera off and they keep go . " I be hopeful that the Government will look more closely at online pornographic content that depict sexual activity with adult actor make to look like child , and content that depict sexual activity between family member . child ' s charity such as Barnardo ' s be concerned that such content act as a gateway for some viewer who , after repeat consumption , end up need ever - more - real content , lead they to seek out child sexual abuse material . what be the purpose of pornography that dress adult woman as child — girl , with lollipop and teddy bear , in school uniform ? widely accessible violent pornography be normalise abuse in everyday life , warp the perception of both young man and woman of sex and healthy relationship , and fuel the rise of a misogynistic incel culture . illegal pornographic content be find across the internet , from the most popular pornography website to social medium app that child still have access to . ensure that the Online Safety Act ' s age verification check for child be bring in properly this year , and that website be hold accountable by Ofcom , be paramount in tackle this issue . if necessary , we need to close any loophole that might allow website such as Pornhub to swerve their responsibility under the Act . the Government should also require all online platform to verify that every individual feature in pornographic content on their site be an adult , consent to publication , and should bring the regime of online pornographic content regulation into the same system as offline pornography , which be regulate by the British Board of Film Classification . we know that online pornographic content be normalise strangulation . Devon and Cornwall sexual assault referral centre look at a five - month period in 2023 . of the referral in that period , 31 % — 53 out of 172 — be of victim who have suffer non - fatal strangulation as part of the sexual violence that they have experience . only seven of those case involve a stranger . three have to go to A & E due to the severity of their symptom . Pornography have reposition strangulation as " breath play " , and so minimise the hugely detrimental health implication : seizure , stroke , paralysis and death . I be , however , particularly glad to see that the victim Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Pontypridd ( Alex Davies - Jones ) , have this week confirm that the Government will introduce legislation to create a new offence for create sexually explicit deepfake image . new deepfake be have an increasingly insidious impact on child ' s life in particular , as well as the many woman and girl who experience it every day . I have be campaign alongside organisation such as Internet Matters to ban the nudifye tool and app that create deepfake . we know they have only one purpose : to violate woman and girl ; 99 % of the image create on the app be of woman , and many do not work on image of man . I see no reason why they not only be freely available to use , but be free to advertise themselves to young people on platform , such as TikTok and Instagram , and app store , where there be no true age verification . even with age verification , it be up to the app store to determine whether content meet an adult ' s level of age verification , and I urge the Government to look closely at the regulation of app store to ensure that the content be independently verify as be suitable for our child to access every day . we be fail our woman and girl , and man , if we continue to ignore the public health crisis generate by violent and addictive pornography and the porn culture it generate . I know just how committed the Government and our Front Bench be to tackle violence against woman and girl , and I be honour to be here to support the — I hope — cross - party work we will do to truly end the huge trauma that too many woman and girl face . I just want to take a moment , because I find it incredibly distress to sit and listen to the brilliant remark from the hon . member for Lowestoft ( Jess Asato ) . why would I find that upsetting ? I find that upsetting because I be a survivor of abuse myself . Northern Ireland be one of the most dangerous place in Europe to be a woman . I have to say that I be upset that no other member from Northern Ireland be here at the minute . eight woman be murder last year and over 20 in the last four year . but why should I feel like this ? it should be the people who be out there perpetrate these crime — people who be in this building , people who be everywhere . as previous member have state , statistically speak , there will be people in this building who be the perpetrator . more often , the people do this be people we know , people we love , and that be what make it even more traumatic , upsetting and disgusting . we live in a society where it be only in 1991 in the case of r v . r that marital rape be make an offence . it take until March 2000 for a Belfast man to be convict for rape his wife . I could talk of the case of Alexander McCartney , a prolific paedophile , which speak directly to what the hon . Member speak about . thousand of child be abuse . whenever I , the hon . member and other Members across the House meet big tech company just a number of week ago , I put it to they : " be you aware of the case of Alexander McCartney ? we have hear from you that you ' re a self - regulate industry and that you take this matter of child abuse seriously . have you hear of the case ? " not one of they , bar the one who happen to own the platform where Mr McCartney be so prolific , have hear of the case . we be live through a crisis where woman be have their right erode every day . my mum be bring up during a time whenever she could only dream of have some of the right that I and other in my generation be promise . we do get some of they — we do — but we have see more row back in recent week , month and year . we be now literally have to fight for our life . Northern Ireland remain an outlier in Europe for violence against woman and girl . there be many reason why that be the case . one of they be the legacy of our troubled past , and we have hear from other member about the impact of war and conflict , and Northern Ireland be not exempt . we have to deal with that legacy of trauma and conflict . layer on top of it , we have to deal with the issue that every other woman and girl across the globe face . one thing that really disturb I , terrify I for my life , be incel culture . I be an elect rep in Northern Ireland . I stand for election for the first time in 2017 , and that be whenever I receive my first rape threat — my first . that should not be normal . in recent day , member have seek to put forward a narrative that it should be take as part and parcel not just of public life , but particularly of the life of elect rep in this House . [ hon . member : " Shame ! " ] I profoundly disagree with they . many troll , no doubt online , will later consider my contribution to the House to be a self - indulgent rant — shrieking , shrill . I be a privileged woman . what can I say to my constituent in Lagan Valley ? I do not know what to say to they . as the former Secretary of State for Northern Ireland , the right hon . member for Staffordshire Moorlands ( Dame Karen Bradley ) , say , this be a societal issue and not one person will tackle it by themselves . however , various individual in our society at this point in time be play an outsized , toxic and disturbing role . I would like to put on the record my thank to the Safeguarding Minister , the hon . member for Birmingham Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) , for the role she have play not just in recent day and week , but for year in protect and stand up for woman and girl . only a matter of month ago , another Member of this House say to I whenever I talk about want to do more on violence against woman and girl that it be " topical " — a pass interest , bit of a fleeting thought , topical . sorry , no . we have be deal with this for year , and it be now turbocharge . that mean our response must be turbocharge . but I have to be honest that , like other member , I be tear because I do not want to give oxygen or a platform to these hatemonger and woman abuser . how can we even deal with what be in front of our face if we do not call it out in the most explicit way ? that do not demean we or bring we down to that level . I do not think for a second that it take away from the import of what we be say or do . it be actually essential , and we should not be ashamed because every single one of we in this House have to stand up for our constituent . I see many woman come across the door of my office in Lisburn who have be through year of systemic abuse , fail at every cut and turn by statutory agency and other who have a duty and do not report . they be leave in a position where we have to build up trust with they , not just in term of their life but the societal and statutory response . I know every single person in the House today will commit to do that , and I be delighted to see the seriousness with which this new Government have take and grip the issue . we need to address the root cause , include online abuse and harmful cultural norm . we would see a lot of school group come through the constituency . we previously do a lot of visit to the Parliament Building in Stormont whenever I sit there in the Northern Ireland Assembly . during one school visit , a member of the public come up and say that they want to rape I . there be two people there , and we be just kind of paralysed in response . that be not the right response — not from I , but from the people around — but it be so normalise that that be exactly what people think . that be not good enough . if people have an issue with champion of woman and girl , and of marginalised community , stand up and use their voice to call that behaviour out — if it make other feel awkward , and if other see it as create a fuss or cause a big deal — that be not my problem . otherwise we will never deal with the cause of it . sometimes there be a narrative that these murder be a tragic inevitability . that be not the case . those death be preventable — so preventable — yet we be live in an age when , as the hon . member for Luton North ( Sarah Owen ) say , woman die be just see as a normal phenomenon . that could not be further from the truth . I feel sadden that I have let myself down a bit by be so emotional at the start of my speech . [ hon . member : " no . " ] that be not my usual style . but like many other member of the House , I feel that the abuse we have receive in the last number of day , precede the incident in the House last night and over the hour afterwards , have compound our feeling of be under attack simply for stand up not just for ourselves , but for the people across the United Kingdom that every single one of we be elect to serve . I simply implore member not to forget Northern Ireland in this . we have an incredible Justice Minister in my party colleague and friend , Naomi Long . she and our First Minister and Deputy First Minister be all desperate and anxious to act . but we can not do it alone ; we need the help of every single member of this House . human right be not devolve , and on a technical point , the regulation of social medium be certainly not devolve . I stand ready to partner with the Government to tackle this work . I simply and honestly ask that other help I and the other member who represent Northern Ireland to end this epidemic of violence against woman and girl . I sincerely thank the hon . member for Lagan Valley ( Sorcha Eastwood ) for what be a move , extraordinary and really brave speech — thank you very much indeed . the Chair of the Women and Equalities Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Luton North ( Sarah Owen ) , rightly say that this be a timely debate . it be timely , but the truth be that violence against woman and girl have be a scourge on England , Scotland , Northern Ireland , Wales and beyond our island since time immemorial , and it will take serious , calm and well think through policy and a collaborative approach to tackle it . that be exactly what the Government be try to bring . there should be no illusion about how serious a problem this be . nor should we pretend , as some on the Conservative Benches have appear to do in recent week , that it be a problem only for one culture or ethnicity . that alone will not remove the threat of sex - base violence . in fact , in most place in the UK , include in my constituency , it would be unlikely to make any difference at all to the threat that woman and girl face from violent man . if we want to be serious about tackle the grooming that lead to such violence , we must recognise the role that social medium company play in monetise hatred , promote extreme misogyny for profit and make a packet out of legitimise the exploitation of woman . the Minister mention in her opening remark the problem of toxic masculinity , which we all know be ubiquitous online . the profiteer of this hatred dress up their indulgence of extremism as free speech advocacy , but they be in fact consciously hope to create a world in which woman — particularly those who stand against the extreme hatred promote on social medium , which be base on sex and ethnicity — be cow into submission . in this House , our speech be formally protect , and no billionaire can hope to launch a libel suit to shut we up , but that do not stop they try to find other mean that they hope will silence we — principally the mob . we have all be on the end of it . every woman in this House know that anything we say in here that challenge power and privilege can put we at risk in a way that be quantitively and qualitatively different from our male colleague . there have be far too much admiration for the tech bros , and too little willingness to challenge abuse . I thank the Prime Minister and the Ministers for their robust word this week , which make I proud to be a Labour MP . I hope that they mark a departure from what we have see , and that we will see many more such response in future . we should do more to tackle the abuse that the tech industry have be allow to get away with for so long . I associate myself with every word that my hon . friend the Member for Lowestoft ( Jess Asato ) say about the role that pornography play , but I would add one piece of evidence that I find shocking . eight - year - old boy regularly access pornography , and that have a well document impact on violence against woman and girl . I will take this opportunity to mention another area of tech that I think need to be address : pimp website , on which woman ' s body be freely advertise for sale to abuser . UK Feminista carry out a survey just before Christmas , and find that 368 woman in my constituency of East Kilbride and Strathaven , and the surround area , be freely advertise online as for sale . that be legal . I know that many people argue that that be sex work , but as a socialist and a feminist , I remain wholly and utterly opposed to that dangerous idea . it be grotesque abuse and exploitation of vulnerable woman , and it indicate to man that woman be commodity to be buy and sell . money should not make act of physical abuse legal and lawful . at a recent constituency surgery , the lack of care and oversight of date app towards their woman user be mention . do the hon . Member agree that date app , and the operator that profit from they , should be hold to account for protect the woman and man who use they , in the same way that social medium company should be hold to account ? yes , I wholeheartedly agree with that sentiment , and I hope that we can work across the House to make that happen . my plea to Ministers be that they consider introduce legislation to tackle pimp website , pornography and the abuse of date app . perhaps the Government could take firm action against online abuse at its source , and spend money on some of the wonderfully thought through measure that the Minister outline in her speech , the like of which we have not see for some time . rise — Order . before I call the next speaker , Members will have see how many people wish to speak in this debate . it be such an important debate , and I do want to get everybody in , so I be go to introduce a six - minute time limit . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for allow I the opportunity to speak in this incredibly important debate . I very much welcome the Government ' s ambition to halve violence against woman and girl over the next decade , and I hope everyone in this place will work together to ensure success , because if we do not , it be our daughter , mother , sister , neighbour and friend who will all pay the price . there be many factor drive sex - base violence , and many powerful contribution have be make today lay they out . I intend to speak specifically about the impact of online pornography on attitude and violence towards woman and girl , especially when view by young people during their formative year . with 50 % — yes , 50 % — of all internet - use adult male in the UK visit Pornhub in September 2020 , this be not a fringe concern or something that can be ignore . to be very clear , we be not talk about the type of content once see in ' 80 jazz mag , but about harmful , degrading and violent imagery that dehumanise woman . this type of extreme online pornographic content have proliferate over the last decade and include footage feature physical aggression and violence , predominantly direct at woman . this material have become mainstream , though it bear little resemblance to real sex or what go on in genuinely love relationship . worryingly , in these video , woman be typically show respond neutrally when on the receive end of this aggression , or even with pleasure . make no mistake , this content reinforce the idea that woman desire and derive pleasure from violence , and ultimately perpetuate rape culture . when we then layer on the fact that this content can be pull out of anyone ' s pocket and watch repeatedly throughout the day on smartphone , even by child , it become clear why this be such a problem for our society . boy will think that this type of activity be normal in the bedroom , while girl will think it be expect . a survey do by the Children ' s Commissioner in November 2022 find that one in 10 child have see pornography by the age of nine , with half have see it before they turn 13 . it be horrify to think of our child watch these act of sexual violence that they can not properly comprehend or understand . its consequence can be clearly see , with 47 % of young people between the age of 16 and 21 state that girl " expect " sex to involve aggression , and a further 42 % state that most girl " enjoy " it . a study that analyse heterosexual scene publish on two lead free pornographic website find that between 35 % and 45 % of content contain at least one act of physical aggression , the most common of which be gag , choke , spanking , slapping and hair - pull . woman be the target of the aggression in 97 % of those scene . it can be no surprise to anyone that if young man be watch this content day in and day out , it will impact their perception and relationship with woman negatively . hundred of study have be undertake over the past 30 year , which confirm the obvious : porn culture be pervasive and influential . it have normalise and sexualise choke and strangling of woman during sex , spit on they , and other unsafe and degrading act . as Dr Jackson Katz , an educator and author , have say , " it require wilful naivety to pretend that this have no negative effect on generation of young people ' s sexuality or have no connection to the ongoing pandemic of man ' s violence against woman " . moreover , disturbingly , frequent viewing of online pornography can desensitise some man to sexual content , drive a need for ever more hardcore content to satisfy they . this cause some boy and man who would not otherwise do so to escalate to view illegal content such as child abuse imagery or rape video . so what do we do to address this situation ? it be not easy — it be a bit like try to get the genie back in the bottle — but we must address it . I suspect that in the year to come , we will look back at the content that be so accessible to our child and so damaging and be utterly incredulous . today , I have two ask for the Minister . first , we must put in place basic safeguard require online platform to verify that every individual feature in pornographic content be an adult and give permission for their content to be publish . verification information must be provide by each individual feature in the content , not by any other person , and most importantly , failure to comply with this requirement must result in robust sanction by Ofcom , include prevent the website in question from operate in the UK if need be . enforcement must be swift and robust to protect victim and create the necessary deterrent effect . secondly , we must bring the regulation of online pornography in line with that for offline pornography . the main statutory regulator of offline pornography be the British Board of Film Classification . it be responsible for classify pornographic content before it can be publish and ensure it do not contain illegal content such as child sexual abuse , incest , trafficking , torture , rape or strangulation . any such offline illegal content can not be sell or supply in the UK , yet the law have never be extend to cover regulation of online pornographic content . this be anachronistic . my hon . friend be make a powerful point : what be illegal offline must be treat the same way online . I fully support everything she be say . I thank my right hon . friend for that intervention , and I completely concur . the fact that our law have not be extend in this way demonstrate that they have not keep up with our ever - change world . I therefore call on the Government to ensure that online pornographic content be hold to the same standard as offline pornographic content . lastly , I thank the all - party parliamentary group on commercial sexual exploitation for its groundbreaking inquiry into pornography during the last parliamentary term . that APPG have shine a light on this important issue , and have not shy away from harsh truth . we can not end the epidemic of male violence against woman and girl in this country without recognise and confront the role that harmful online pornography be play . enough be enough . if everyone in this House care about woman and girl — and our boy too , because this be bad for they as well — it be time to take action and ensure that online content be properly regulate . I begin by pay tribute to the hon . member for Lagan Valley ( Sorcha Eastwood ) . her speech be incredibly courageous and brave . in recent day , like most woman member of this House , I assume , I have receive online abuse , but her courage and bravery inspire we all , and give we the confidence to stand here . I give she my personal thank for share what she do with we . violence against woman and girl be nothing short of a national emergency . in my constituency of Thurrock alone , 317 sexual offence and 1 , 841 incident of stalking and harassment be record in one year . behind each of those statistic be a woman or girl whose life have be impact by some of the bad crime , but those figure be just the tip of the iceberg — the sharp end of unrestrained misogyny and hate direct towards woman and girl — so I strongly welcome the Government ' s commitment to halve violence against woman and girl in a decade , and the measure that have be outline so far to deliver justice for victim of these awful offence , and to ensure that perpetrator be hold accountable . we must tackle the root cause of this epidemic of violence — more often than not , male violence — towards woman and girl . the societal attitude that woman and girl be second - class citizen , and be less worthy of respect and value , and expectation of the " perfect victim " — these all need to stop . young boy and girl be expose every day to a virulent mix of misogyny and sex - base hate crime online . it can not be right for child to view strangulation as a standard practice in sexual intercourse , or for there to be any question around when no do not mean no . to bring the meaningful change need to end this scourge of violence , we need to tackle these issue at root . we need to educate and empower boy to show respect and call out misogyny in their peer . we need to encourage and support man to identify and speak out against all form of sex - base hate , challenge their peer on what be and be not acceptable , and reflect on where the community and space that they be in can do and be well . we need to support woman and girl who have experience the bad of our society through male violence . SERRIC — the South Essex Rape and Incest Crisis Centre — in my constituency be a pioneer rape and abuse support service . Set up by woman determine that rape victim would not be leave unsupported , it provide specialist support , build up through year of experience , to victim of rape , sexual abuse or violence . it allow survivor to reclaim control over their life , understand the impact of what they have live through and move forward . SERRIC be keen to highlight that for all victim , a criminal justice outcome alone be not enough to repair the harm do . indeed , for some victim , a criminal justice outcome be not the desire or good approach . retraumatise victim in the criminal justice system by force they to repeatedly retell what happen to they need to be minimise , and support need to be prioritise , but that will require a cross - Government effort . health service need to be equip to recognise the sign of physical and sexual abuse , and to provide support for victim that be not purely focus on gather evidence for prosecution . specialist support service such as SERRIC need to be fund to deal with referral from health service , particularly community therapy service that will not treat a woman who have be the victim of sexual violence or rape . there be no statutory framework for specialist rape and sexual violence support service , so specialist support be often under - support , compare to more generic provision . I welcome the Minister ' s commitment to develop a strong and sustainable model that ensure that specialist service be protect , and I request that she meet I and SERRIC to make sure that we do not miss out on its valuable input on amplify the voice of victim of male violence against woman and girl . to conclude , with the spotlight on this issue — as a woman , I know that it very seldom be — we have an opportunity to tackle the cause of male violence against woman and girl at root , to implement the recommendation of IICSA , and to listen to the voice of victim and provide the support that they need to rebuild their life . I hope this opportunity be not squander by those who seek to put their political ambition , or spread misinformation , insinuation and division , ahead of make real change . in 2021 , Plymouth , part of which be in my constituency of South West Devon , have two horrific tragedy affect a number of people . we have the Keyham shooting , which be incel - link , hence my question about that early , and the tragic murder of Bobbi - Anne McLeod . I know that both minister be well aware of those case . what come out of those tragedy be an opportunity to shine a light on VAWG in the city in a way that have never happen before , as well as to see what be already be do , and what more could be do to make thing even well , and ultimately to make woman and girl safe , and feel safe . the Plymouth violence against woman and girl commission be establish in response , and I have the privilege of lead it . it take we six month , but we work cross party , and we report back with 15 recommendation , which be support by organisation and business right across the city . hon . member may be interested to know that we deliberately call it the " Male violence against Women and Girls Report " . at the time , it feel as though we be break ground , but we have move on a long way since then . in January 2023 , one of the recommendation , which be for a Westminster Hall debate , come to fruition , so my name be mention in Hansard . the Ministers both take part in that debate , which my predecessor , Sir Gary Streeter , organise , and it enable we to share our learning , which we be really keen to do . we all know that violence against woman and girl be a huge topic , and it be very difficult sometimes even to figure out the good way to approach it . that be why we approach it through the lens of public health . we recognise that there be no quick fix , and that multiple factor influence the likelihood of someone be a perpetrator or a victim , and that be key to what we do . we want to change culture and behaviour in the city , and to support woman and girl by be victim - focus and trauma - informed . I pay tribute to the organisation that be already work hard to do that in the city , include Trevi , First Light , Ahimsa , the National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children , and our police and crime commissioner , Alison Hernandez , as well as the police and the city council . in particular , I want to name Hannah Shead , who have work for Trevi for a number of year and be now move on . I think it would be nice to get she mention . we also recognise the importance of create safe space and the building block for the future . that be two year ago , and I will briefly update the House on what we have do since . a key thing we do be appoint a strategic lead in the city , and there be now four woman — Meghan , Verity , Tracy and Lisa — whose job it be to bring everything that be happen across the city together . if any member want to take a good example back to their constituency , I would highly recommend that one . on change culture , there be a focus on allyship and education for those of all age . the National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children have do fantastic work in school focus on pornography , and we have see the establishment of a group call Man Culture , which want to work collaboratively on reduce VAWG in the city . it receive funding under the serious violence duty , and have deliver workshop that facilitate conversation about healthy and positive masculinity , a subject raise today . a huge amount be be do to support woman and girl and to make it easy to access support . since 2022 , the city have be pursue co - ordinate community response accreditation . it be work with stand together against Domestic Abuse , and we want to ensure that we have an assessment of how we deal with all this multi - agency work . there have be a review of the city ' s multi - agency risk assessment conference , which have lead to improvement and a new steering group , which be ongoing . it be look at develop a multi - agency tasking and co - ordination process in the city , and the work group for that be launch in autumn 2024 . we want the council , police , probation and local charity to work with perpetrator , engage with they , disrupt their behaviour , and see high - harm domestic abuse perpetrator tackle . a huge amount have be do on create safe space . of particular note be — the House will have to bear with I ; it be a long name — Plymouth ' s evening and night - time economy predatory behaviour disruption partnership . it be work on a pilot look at how we can bring together civic and criminal justice tool to tackle predatory behaviour . criminal justice tool be often not enough , or do not hit a trigger point . in the past 12 month , we have have 12 community protection notice warning serve , one antisocial behaviour stage 2 warning serve , and five meeting at police station with word of advice . that be crack action . we have bring together those criminal justice action to tackle that predatory behaviour . well do to everyone involve . the key be work together and hold each other to account . still on the theme of safe space , I will touch on single - sex space . I ask the House to hear I out , as I say this with a real spirit of gentleness . I appreciate that there be a lot of woman out there — some be my constituent — for whom this issue be particularly important , and it be important that their voice be hear . there be a concern among woman about the lack of clarity over language and guideline , and that be why my right hon . friend the Member for North West Essex ( Mrs Badenoch ) , when she be Women and Equalities Minister , call for example of guidance that might wrongly suggest that people have a legal right to access all single - sex space and service on the basis of their self - identify gender . the new Government respond to that in December , and we be concerned that it have lead to a lack of clarity about whether a single - sex space can be use by those who self - identify , or be specifically just for woman . my hon . friend be make another powerful speech , and her real - life example of how we can change thing with a multi - agency approach be so powerful . her point on clarity be important , and I urge she to keep fight to make sure we have that clarity . I thank my right hon . friend for her contribution . it would be great if Ministers could address that point this afternoon , so that those who be watch this debate can understand whether the Government will recommit to do something on single - sex space . to go back to Plymouth , the expert in our city be begin to look at the fact that the Domestic Abuse Act 2021 create the statutory standing for child to be consider victim in their own right . the man and woman work on the issue in Plymouth be begin to wonder whether we should call it violence against woman and child , rather than girl , because the challenge with any label be that it can take our focus off what we need to be talk about . I would be interested to hear the Minister ' s response to that . I have briefly set out the result of the commission on violence against woman and girl and our recommendation . member be all welcome to visit Plymouth to see what we have do . we have not solve the problem , but we have go a long way to play our part in tackle violence against woman and girl . I thank the hon . member for South West Devon ( Rebecca Smith ) , and for Reigate ( Rebecca Paul ) , the right hon . member for Staffordshire Moorlands ( Dame Karen Bradley ) , my hon . friend the Member for Luton North ( Sarah Owen ) , the hon . member for Lagan Valley ( Sorcha Eastwood ) , and my hon . friend the Members for Lowestoft ( Jess Asato ) , for East Kilbride and Strathaven ( Joani Reid ) , and for Thurrock ( Jen Craft ) . they have all make powerful and compelling speech . it be such a shame that certain member from some party simply do not bother to turn up . I welcome the largely constructive tone from the shadow Minister , but I want to say something about the tone of the recent debate and how it have unleash yet another tide of misinformation and lie . overnight , Facebook group have become a sewer of misinformation on last night ' s vote . I proudly vote for the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill because it toughen the law to improve child protection and safeguarding . anything else that be say about I or my colleague be a lie . I have make it clear to my rochdale constituent that I be open to a new inquiry into groom gang , if that be what be most helpful to the victim and survivor , and , crucially , if it can be do in a way that do not conflict with live police investigation and prosecution . we must not forget — as people be forget — that the Jay inquiry have victim and survivor at its very heart . they be build into its process and consult all the way along — at the start , during and after it . many victim and survivor have say that they want that report to be implement in full — that be their priority . Alexis Jay ' s clear demand be to get on with it . that be exactly what this Government be do . in Rochdale , a predominantly pakistani - heritage groom gang rape our local girl and tarnish our town ' s good name . Andy Burnham ' s independent inquiry into the council and police failure in Rochdale be publish last year . like the Jay report , the Rochdale report listen to victim and come up with recommendation . crucially , the prosecutor and police have be able to get on and pursue further prosecution as a result . that be what the public want . their priority be lock up these paedophile , and make sure that they get the strong possible sentence and be bring to court swiftly . Telford be another excellent example of a local inquiry that build on the survivor ' experience and make sure that they be involve all the way along . they know what the flaw be , what the good solution be and how they can be embed locally and nationally . it be clear from the Greater Manchester inquiry that the central failure be working - class girl not be believe or respect , and the police think that their case would not stack up in court . that be also the problem in the abuse of boy by Cyril Smith , which I have a role in expose as a journalist more than a decade ago . working - class youngster be simply not believe by the authority , locally or nationally . it be this Prime Minister , as Director of Public Prosecutions , who bring in real change to make sure that those work - class voice could be hear in court . the additional problem in Rochdale be delay in multi - agency working : social worker and the police not get their act together , not get the right specialist help and not spot the pattern of organise abuse . we need specialist within police force — rape specialist and child protection team . we need to disrupt this wherever it happen and be tough on the sentencing . but what I loathe be the suggestion that this should be a political game . it sicken I that politician can think that another party can be damage or tar by the idea of child abuse . I pay tribute to Theresa May for set up the child abuse inquiry and to the former Prime Minister for set up the grooming gang taskforce . we should have cross - party consensus on this and maintain it at all cost . it be sad to see that certain Reform party member be simply not here today . a responsible politician do not ride the wave of justify anger about child abuse ; they do something about it . we can have a robust debate about policy , delay , action or inaction , but to suggest that someone who disagree be somehow complicit in or endorse child abuse be completely unacceptable . the real danger in all this be that politic will suffer and the victim will suffer . I pay particular tribute to Sara Rowbotham , the former health worker in Rochdale who later become a Labour councillor . her tireless work lead to the exposure of the grooming gang in our town . Sara be play by Maxine Peake in the BBC drama " three Girls " , the broadcast of which lead to huge change and justice for many girl , not just across Rochdale but across the whole country . there be a remarkable effort in Rochdale — a collective movement that have long be at the forefront of protect woman and girl from domestic and sexual violence . our town be not just a place of resilience , but a beacon of hope , support and empowerment of the most vulnerable in our society . I pay tribute to the exceptional individual lead this work : Khaldha Manzoor , ceo of the Rochdale Women ' s Welfare Association ; Kathy Thomas , CEO of Rochdale Connections Trust ; and Councillors Sameena Zaheer , Janet Emsley and Amber Nisa . they have all drive this work . finally , I must pay tribute to the youngster . Falinge Park high school ' s white ribbon ambassador and initiative by the Rochdale Islamic academy girl school demonstrate how education can play a pivotal role in prevent abuse and change societal attitude . rochdale stand as a testament to what can be achieve when individual , charity , public institution and political party unite for a common cause . let we honour their effort not just with word , but with the continued support that they need to thrive . I very much welcome the Government bring this important debate to the House today . every single day , 3 , 000 crime of violence against woman and girl be record . that is 3 , 000 act of harm inflict on woman in our society . yet accord to the end violence against Women coalition , the true figure be likely far high , as so many victim simply never come forward . one in 12 woman will become a victim of these crime each year , while it be estimate that one in 20 people will be a perpetrator annually , although , again , the actual number be think to be significantly great . these figure be not just statistic ; they represent life disrupt , confidence erode and safety steal . violence against woman and girl be horrifyingly prevalent in our society . too many woman feel unsafe walk down their own street , in their home and workplace , and online . the reality of this violence have be feel profoundly in my constituency : in 2023 , Emma Pattison and her seven - year - old daughter be brutally kill by her husband . there be warn sign of coercive , control behaviour , but they be not pick up on . the loss of Emma and Lettie Pattison should serve as a reminder of how domestic abuse can escalate rapidly , and how we must be ready to listen to woman and pick up on these sign of abuse . we must learn from such tragedy and act decisively to prevent other . our criminal justice system be fail woman , survivor be not support as they should be and , far too often , perpetrator evade justice . online abuse , workplace harassment and daily intimidation be all too common , and they reveal a society that continue to let woman down . we need a whole - system approach to tackle this issue . criminal justice partner , Government body , voluntary organisation and industry must come together to improve early identification , risk assessment and the provision of support for survivor . most importantly , when there be report of any sort of violence or sexual misconduct , they must be take seriously . we will not end this surge of violence against woman and girl in our society if the police do not take woman seriously , investigate the report crime and bring the perpetrator to justice . the Liberal Democrats believe in a clear path forward that include make misogyny a hate crime ; fully implement the Istanbul convention on prevent and combat violence against woman and domestic violence , with protection for all survivor , regardless of nationality or immigration status ; and ensure sustainable funding for refuge space and rape crisis centre to meet the overwhelming demand . survivor deserve well . they deserve domestic abuse specialist embed in every police force , mandatory trauma training for officer and prosecutor , and real action to address the delay in the justice system that put woman at further risk . social medium company must also play their part by address the appalling abuse face by woman online , include member of the House today . this be often how abuse start . transparency and accountability must be non - negotiable . no woman should have to live in fear of violence ; no girl should grow up think this be the norm . we have the tool and knowledge to make a difference ; what we need now be the will to act . I welcome the announcement from this Government and the fact that they be maintain this as a key priority , and I stand ready to work with anyone in this Chamber to build a safe , fair society for woman and girl . before I begin , I want to remind everyone that every woman — and some man — have a story . some be awful ; many be devastating , include those of woman in this House , like myself . if anyone be feel affect by this debate and the issue raise , either in the House or watch online , please reach out to the many amazing organisation ; for people in Milton Keynes , MK - ACT be one partner . it be for woman like I and the woman of Milton Keynes that I extend my thank to the Under - Secretary of State for the Home Department , my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) , and the Under - Secretary of State for Justice , my hon . friend the Member for Pontypridd ( Alex Davies - Jones ) , because it be woman like they who be make our life safe . previous government have treat violence against woman and girl as inevitable , or , more recently , a political opportunity , instead of the national emergency that it be . I feel sorry for the hon . member for East Grinstead and Uckfield ( Mims Davies ) , who I know feel strongly on this , but who be not in the Chamber today ? there be not a single Reform MP , which show how much they care . there be no show from the shadow Home Secretary , the right hon . member for Croydon South ( Chris Philp ) , who say that he really care about the issue , and no show from the shadow Justice Secretary , the right hon . member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) , who also say that he care about the issue . I guess they care about it only when they can put out Facebook ad afterwards . we be sick and tired of see woman and girl face the same threat of violence and abuse generation after generation . after Sarah Everard be kill , woman across the country demand action , but too little changed . after Raneem Oudeh be kill , we expect major overhaul of policing and the criminal justice system , but barely anything be do . after the report and the review , not a single recommendation be enact . the passive response from previous government to those devastating crime be hopeless . for those of we who care , the constant frustration , the mourning , the tragedy and the inevitability of male violence against woman and girl in this country be exhausting , but we will never stop fight . every new case that make the news of a woman kill by a husband , kill by a boyfriend , kill by a stranger or kill by an ex be a gut - wrench reminder that you be never safe . your daughter , your mother , your friend and your sister may never be safe , either . it have to stop . it happen everywhere , in every corner of the country and in every community . unfortunately , it happen on Christmas day in Milton Keynes when two woman , Joanne Pearson , 38 , and Teohna Grant , 24 , be kill . while the previous Government do not do enough , they do not create the crisis alone . how do we sort it ? by understand it . that start with the House become the first white ribbon Parliament in the world . I be grateful to the Leader of the House , the Speaker and the Deputy Speakers for their support in that . we have to understand online radicalisation . a generation of young man be be raise in radical anti - woman space online . those use to be niche place that would have to be search for on some kind of Telegram or 8chan channel , but they have be mainstreame . grow up , our child hear those joke only from the drunk uncle in the corner who everyone ignore ; now , they be there every day and have become popular with young and old man with aspirational lifestyle . I have speak before in the House about Andrew Tate , but he be just one of an endless supply of misogynist repacke hate for woman as stand up for man . the tactic and content use by these man to radicalise man in this country be the same psychological process use to radicalise islamic extremist , yet the law , the press and the public do not treat it the same . the harm be extreme , with one woman kill every week in the UK , and the average age for rape be now 14 year old . that have be compound by violent pornography . one young man report on by Laura Bates — for those who want to read more , she be fantastic on this issue — be ask : " why didn ' t you stop when she be cry ? " he look back , bewilder , and say : " it ' s normal for girl to cry during sex " . that be what our young people — and old people — be face . we have to strengthen the Online Safety Act 2023 and ensure that the criminal law be robust and can keep pace with emerge technology issue , especially when we have social medium tsar push their radical free - speech agenda that make our child less safe . we have to step up to prevent online radicalisation of our young man and boy and keep our woman and girl safe online and offline . I believe in the Government ' s mission to halve VAWG , I be proud of the work do so far , and I be proud of the woman lead the effort to build a world where woman can exist in online space without be expose to sexist put down and where we do not have to say , " this happen to I . " we have hear many move and personal account this afternoon from member address the scourge of violence against woman and girl . it be crucial that we continue to shed heat and light on this horrendous abuse — not just the horrific story that make the news , but the hidden harm that we do not hear about . in 2024 , domestic abuse - relate crime represent 15 . 8 % of all offence record by police , with nearly three quarter of those victim be female . the incident that I wish to highlight involve a young woman who be violently attack outside a nightclub . the man who be her attacker be also her boyfriend at the time . by his own admission , the young man say he have only push she and she fall to the ground and be hurt . court record subsequently reveal that he have repeatedly kick she , " around four time " . it be report in the Daily Mail that the attack be stop only when two doorman drag the attacker away from the young woman and then call the police . the man be arrest and charge with assault . the Times report that he have initially deny the charge , maintain his innocence , which mean that both his victim and witness be force to relive the attack by give statement to the police ahead of go to trial . the young woman herself be leave with both injury and last mental scar . speak to the Daily Mail , the victim ' s mother describe how it have take " two security guard to pull he off she " . she explain how he have " leave mark on her body " from the violence of the assault , go on to describe her daughter ' s attacker as " a monster " and state : " there be no way he should be an MP in the House of Commons represent people . " as of July , that young woman ' s attacker sit on these green Benches as a Member of Parliament . his constituent be make aware of the crime only when the story be report in the Daily Mail on 12 July . after the story break , the Member refer to it as a " teenage indiscretion " — even as recently as last weekend , during a fractious Sky News interview . while the Member maintain that the assault be nothing more than an argument follow by a push where his former girlfriend " fall over and … be hurt " , the extract from the Chelmsford Crown court record relate to the conviction explain why the judge award a custodial sentence , state that " the sentence be not suspend in light of the serious nature of the offence " . it state that the offence " require immediate punishment " , and that a pre - sentence report indicate a " lack of willingness to comply " before the man eventually submit a late guilty plea . I find it incredible that a Member of this House have a conviction for a violent assault on a young woman , his own partner , receive an immediate custodial sentence for it . in a previous interview with Sky News , there be a refusal from the very top of the Reform party to acknowledge that female constituent who might have suffer domestic abuse or violence might be uncomfortable with have an MP who have be convict of attack a woman . the party leader state in November that the Member " wasn ' t vet at all " , but in July a party spokesman be quote in the Daily Mail as say that the party know about the conviction because the Member have be " entirely honest with we when he apply to become our candidate " . on - the - record comment from the party leader and the party spokesman appear to contradict one another completely in respect of what be know . the Reform party appear to have knowingly put up a candidate with a conviction for attack a woman — a party that do not believe that violence against woman and girl should be take seriously if the perpetrator be one of their own . we in this House , constituent and the wide public deserve to know precisely what Reform know about this conviction ; what they be tell , when they be tell it , and what they choose to disclose in subsequent statement to the medium . I believe in the rehabilitation of offender — I believe that the justice system need to be rehabilitative in order to reduce the rate of recidivism , and that those who have serve their sentence should be free to move on with their life — but I also believe that be sentence for such a heinous crime should mean forfeit some of the privilege that those of we who have never attack a woman be grant . one such privilege be be a Member of Parliament . if the conviction in question have be relate to a sexual offence , would it have be accept here so comfortably ? justice should not mean that victim be force to see those convict of attack they be elect as member of this House because there be no requirement to disclose their past . the Government have pledge to halve violence against woman and girl in a decade , and to provide victim with well support . the presence of a Member of Parliament with a conviction for violently assault a woman have never be acknowledge in this House , let alone address . any debate in the House on the subject of violence against woman and girl should address the convict criminal already in our midst . as this government shape their legislative agenda , I ask the Minister to consider whether it be time to introduce legislation that bar those who have serve a custodial sentence for violence against woman and girl from stand as a Member of Parliament . I want to thank all my colleague for their valuable and powerful account , in particular my hon . friend the Member for Milton Keynes Central ( Emily Darlington ) , who have work so hard on this issue , and my hon . friend the Member for Rochdale ( Paul Waugh ) , who have do a great deal to assist in community cohesion . violence against woman and girl be undeniably difficult to speak about , especially as so many of we have suffer and will know friend and family who have be affect . before I begin , I would like to express my solidarity with the Under - Secretary of State for the Home Department , my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) , who have receive further vile and misogynistic attack this week . I hope member of the official Opposition be brave enough to do the same and call out these vitriolic attack for what they be . my hon . friend have always shine brightly as a beacon for all victim of violent and sexual abuse . as my hon . friend the Member for Luton North ( Sarah Owen ) say , it feel like nothing have change since the 1980 , when I go to university in Leeds in the wake of the Yorkshire ripper . woman ' s behaviour be still dictate by fear of rape and violent attack . violence against woman and girl be a national emergency , not the inevitability that previous government have treat it as . we be sick and tired of see woman and girl face the same threat of violence and abuse , generation after generation . recent generation have face the new threat of image - base abuse . my colleague and I on the Women and Equalities Committee investigate image - base abuse and produce a report , which recommend that the Government take action to protect victim . I be pleased that the Government will introduce three new offence to combat image - base abuse . these be step in the right direction — step that will protect more woman from revenge porn and will hopefully lead more victim to feel confident in report perpetrator . we can go through statistic after statistic , but I want to speak about the experience of one of my constituent , who be brave enough to share her story with I and ask I to share it with the House . Olivia , in her word , be love - bomb before her abuse start . her abuser emotionally manipulate she and then strangle she and leave acid in her car . she do everything that we ask of victim . she call the police . she report everything at the time and have witness who speak to the police , but she be too scared to tell they about all the abuse that be happen . then her perpetrator make she believe that he be the victim and convince she to drop the charge and continue their relationship . they go away on holiday . there , the abuse continue , and she have to get the police involve abroad . she decide to end the relationship shortly after , but it do not end there . her abuser harass , stalk and threaten she at her own home and in public . again , she do everything right . she call the police on every occasion to report it . when he be finally arrest , no further action be take because there be not enough evidence to convict he . when she first report he , she be tell that he would be convict and charge for non - fatal strangulation , but he still walk the street , and it be she who must live in fear of what could happen next . we must confront the uncomfortable reality that even when victim of violence report domestic abuse to the police , they do not get the help they need . I ask Olivia whether there be anything she would like I to share , and she ask I to tell the House that " when a girl or woman approach the police , fast action need to be take as the perpetrator can very quickly get back into our head and feel that we be the problem and woman be more likely to drop the case , there should be more support from the police when victim ask for case to be drop " . we know that domestic abuse be much more than physical abuse . coercive control leave victim helpless and unable to escape their abuser , like Olivia say . it be time we make sure that our first responder , police and ambulance crew know what coercive control look like . we must make sure that teacher teach their student about coercive control , and that case of coercive control be spot and take seriously by the police before it be too late , as be the case with another of my constituent , who sadly lose her daughter . the Government ' s new ministerial board on tackle violence against woman and girl will bring together Ministers from the Home Office , the Ministry of Justice , the Department of Health and Social Care , the Department for Education , the Department for Transport , the Department for Work and Pensions and the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government and many more department , to ensure that for the first time we have a truly cross - Government approach to violence against woman and girl . I urge they to ensure that tackle coercive control be at the centre of that approach . this cross - Government approach and the introduction of domestic abuse specialist into 999 control room as part of Raneem ' s law give I hope in the fight against gendere violence . we have a long way to go , but I be proud to be part of a Government who be committed to tackle misogyny , halve violence against woman and girl and take action now to make that a reality in every corner of our society . I welcome the opportunity to take part in this very important debate , and I pay tribute to right hon . and hon . member for their extremely powerful , informed and personal contribution . accord to the Office for National Statistics , 851 , 062 domestic abuse - relate crime be report in England and Wales in the year end March 2024 . the NSPCC have report that police in England and Wales make an average of 669 child protection referral per day to social service in the last year . this week , I have be shock to hear that an average of 500 , 000 child a year might be be abuse in our country . we in this place must do everything in our power to protect those who have be victim and those who may end up become victim through our inaction . I do not want to make this a party political issue . I recognise the potential failing of the last government to inform the debate , but I acknowledge the positive step that they take in this space . however , we be here today because those step be not enough , and I be grateful to those on the Opposition Benches for support the motion . the root cause of VAWG be not excuse for perpetrator to commit crime , but they may lead to high risk or a more difficult experience for those affect . austerity and the devastating cut to public service reduce funding for service that support victim of domestic violence and sexual abuse , and the cut have lead to few resource and support option for woman in need . the weakening of social welfare programme through policy aim at reduce social welfare spending can disproportionately affect woman , who be more likely to rely on such programme . that lead to increase economic insecurity and vulnerability to abuse . there be insufficient legal protection and a lack of funding for the court , and there have be criticism of the enforcement of law relate to domestic violence and sexual abuse . inadequate training for law enforcement and judicial personnel can result in poor handling of case and insufficient protection for victim . there be also a lack of focus on gender equality . policy that do not actively promote gender equality can perpetuate systemic issue that put woman at risk , because they do not address the gender pay gap , the lack of affordable childcare , the insufficient support for woman in the workforce , and the failure to implement the recommendation of the Jay review in order to support victim of child sexual abuse and protect child from the same risk . a constituent come to my surgery and recount her experience . the person she be live with have drug and rape she repeatedly . she have report this to the police , who promise to take immediate action and arrest the alleged perpetrator . I will not go into the detail here but , unfortunately , the perpetrator be currently live not very far from the victim who allege abuse against he . I urge the Government to take immediate step to protect those who have be abuse , or who be make allegation of abuse , from the further trauma of live close by and have their allege abuser walk the same street , leave they feel unsafe every single moment of the day . I welcome and commend the Government ' s commitment to cut violence against all woman and girl by 50 % over the next 10 year , and I associate myself with the positive policy that have be propose , but I urge they not to leave any stone unturned and to put in place , once and for all , the maximum practical measure to reduce the harm to woman and girl forever . I draw attention to the plight of woman and child in BAME community . they face similar issue , but they also face language barrier , the fear of not be believe or understand , and the fear of discrimination by statutory service such as the police and social service . the hon . Gentleman talk about people need to be believe . could he talk about that a bit far ? every single person who report a crime , especially violent or sexual abuse , must be take seriously from the moment they present their issue to the relevant authority or any responsible person . any person who turn a blind eye to such report be directly or indirectly complicit . we need to tighten up the process . of course , we want to avoid miscarriage of justice , but it be really important that people be listen to . woman and child in BAME community fear they may become isolated from their family or community if they seek help or leave a relationship , or , where their immigration status be an issue , they fear they may lose their residency in the UK . it be therefore imperative that support service be culturally aware and sensitive to the need of bame woman to provide they with specialised — Order . I call David Burton - Sampson . I have to impose an immediate four - minute time limit . tackle violence against woman and girl be a job for everyone . we all know that tackle violence involve far more than just the police and the criminal justice system . prevent abuse in the first place be crucial , and everyone need to play their part . I join my hon . friend the Member for Rochdale ( Paul Waugh ) and other in express my disappointment that some seem to pick and choose which type of abuse they wish to champion . abuse be not a political football . all should come together to tackle abuse . across Government , and with mayor , local council and police and crime commissioner , we need to support strong preventive action . accord to the crime survey for England and Wales for the year end March 2024 , 2 . 2 million woman that year have experience domestic abuse , 1 . 1 million have suffer sexual assault and 1 . 5 million have be stalk . of course , it be not just physical abuse that woman experience ; they also experience online abuse . my fellow member of the Women and Equalities Committee and I recently hear evidence from young woman about the abuse they experience through non - consensual intimate image and deepfake . it be harrowing to hear about the long - term impact this abuse have have on those young girl ' live . as we have hear , this Government have pledge to halve violence against woman and girl in a decade , and I be pleased by the action they be already take . I must mention the tireless and dedicated work of my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) . she have stand up and fight against violence against woman and girl for many year , support many victim and be now do great work to influence the tackling of this issue in her role as Minster for Safeguarding and Violence against Women and girl . however , the issue be not just what the Government should do . prevent abuse in the first place be crucial , and everyone need to play their part . man need to play their part — man need to do more . the charity White Ribbon want to prevent man ' s violence against woman and girl by address its root cause . it work with man and boy to change long - establish and harmful attitude , system and behaviour that perpetuate inequality and violence . it be clear that many young man be be warp by toxic influencer online . police chief have warn that young man be be radicalise online . the police have demand that technology company act more quickly to take down extreme material . school have a role to play in provide high - quality , inclusive and effective relationship and sex education that be relevant to the reality of child ' s life and empower young people to understand the true relationship boy should have with girl : respect , respect and respect . that really matter . man need to be champion of that cause and of woman ' s safety . I thank my hon . friend , who be my colleague on the Women and Equalities Committee , for everything he do to set an example to young man . do he agree that we should call upon all our male colleague to do the same in their constituency ? I agree , and I call upon all man to do everything they can to champion the cause . man need to be positive champion : there be so much we can do . we need to be ally , call out poor language or behaviour in our own friendship group when we witness it . we need to be conscious of our behaviour around woman , such as keep a distance if we be walk near a woman who be alone at night . if we see a woman be harass on public transport , for example , we can be an active bystander by ignore the aggressor and engage the victim with a benign question , such as ask the time or offer a seat . that be non - confrontational intervention that can help diffuse a situation . there be so much more that we , as man , can do . we can all help . we need to educate , act and do more to support , and we need to drive down such behaviour once and for all . it be a privilege to be here in the Chamber to experience so many astonishing speech . I direct attention specifically to the hon . member for Lagan Valley ( Sorcha Eastwood ) , whose speech be one for the age . I preface my contribution with the acknowledgment that there be 263 woman member of this Parliament who be often well equip to speak on matter that impact woman and girl . however , in the case of violence against woman and girl , it be important that man speak . we should not shy away from the fact that such violence be often inflict by man , from across society and from all walk of life . the recent conviction of the man who rape Gis è le Pelicot bring to light some information that shake my faith even in myself . among the man who rape she be a journalist , a councillor , a soldier , lorry driver , farm worker and even — pause for a moment to consider this — a nurse . one of the most shatter example of violence against woman and girl be the tragic case of Sara Sharif . rarely be I move to such anger as when I revisit that case . the man who torture and murder 10 - year - old Sara be the one person whose primary responsibility as a human being be to protect his daughter . I echo the statement by the hon . member for Warrington North ( Charlotte Nichols ) , who refer to label such man as monster . to label he and the perpetrator of similarly disgusting crime as monster be to obscure an uncomfortable truth : they be often father and brother , they be often our work colleague . I note the absence today of the Member for South Basildon and East Thurrock ( James McMurdock ) and his enabler . man across the country be outrage by violence against woman and girl , but how many of we be ready to look in the mirror ? man take a stand against demean language , inappropriate behaviour and toxic mentality will prove central to win the mind of man and boy , but we must also recognise it in ourselves . as with any other form of intolerance — I draw attention to the hon . member for Luton North ( Sarah Owen ) , who link broad intolerance to the matter we be discuss — it be the othering of " they " and the validation of " we " that drive resentment . may I associate myself with the word of the Minister , the hon . member for Luton North ( Sarah Owen ) and other on the comment make to the Minister for Safeguarding and violence against Women and girl ? I be appal by the comment make online and by well - know member of the public . will my hon . friend join I in wholeheartedly condemn public sexual harassment , include so - call cat call , which be design to harass , intimidate and humiliate woman and girl ? shamefully , 68 % of adult woman have experience sexual harassment by the age of 15 . will my hon . Friend also join I in ask the Government to pass the statutory instrument require to enforce the legislation pass last year on that ? I absolutely stand by my hon . friend ' s comment . may I also congratulate he on the recent birth of his daughter ? I be delighted that he will learn now , as I know , that there be nobody more blessed than the father of daughter . the attention of man and boy be often win through divisive and even violent rhetoric and behaviour . it appeal to man ' s frustration . it frame woman as opponent — some adversary to be control or defeat — or an object to acquire , possess and impose our will upon . for some of we , that rhetoric be first experience in our own home , grow up . if not , then it be experience in the playground . it be not long before toxic role model be in our social medium feed , with algorithm repeat and reinforce toxic message . we can decide in this House to challenge toxic influence , predominantly through our school . boy and girl should be teach together to respect and appreciate each other for their difference , as well as for what they have in common . we should also mandate social medium company to publish the action they take to address and control online abuse . let I be explicit : those who do not measure up must have no such place of influence in our society . I will end with an acknowledgment that withdraw our armed force from Afghanistan and leave million of woman to the will of the Taliban be a self - make humanitarian tragedy . together with our ally , for 20 year , we bring afghan woman freedom and hope for the future . with the US - plan withdrawal and our corresponding action , we condemn and , in so many case , return they to a pitiful and hellish existence . I be honour to participate in this debate and to follow such esteemed colleague from all side of the House . violence take many form , not just physical or sexual , but emotional , financial and coercive control . those act , which do not leave physical bruise , have just as bruise an effect — the effect cut off the woman on the receiving end from their family , from the friend who support they , and not necessarily from their abuser . it be the effect of cut off woman from the people who will provide support and help , and from those who will utter the immortal word , " do you know you be live in an abusive relationship ? " I thank the right hon . member for Staffordshire Moorlands ( Dame Karen Bradley ) for what she say . we must not underestimate the power of those word , or the power of those friend . it be a person utter those word that get I out . I do not believe it ; I do not recognise it . I pooh - poohe it in that meeting , but then I sit back and reflect . every single one of we here will have come to the debate thinking of woman we know — woman we meet before we come to this place . there be those who I represent in the trade union . there be one I sit in the car with and do the midnight flit with . they get out . I phone manager and say that we need to get she moved . there be people whose story I do not have the privilege or the permission to tell , but one woman — one of my constituent — who do give I that permission get out of the relationship . she move 400 mile to be beside her family and be now sit in temporary accommodation , work part - time and on universal credit . she can not get a tenancy in a private flat , because she do not have the good financial standing to get a reference . she can not get a council house , because we have a housing emergency , and she have no child . she do not want to sit and wait for 10 year without work . I know fine well that the Under - Secretary of State for Justice , my hon . friend the Member for Pontypridd ( Alex Davies - Jones ) , and my hon . friend the Safeguarding Minister know this inside out . I know that they can make the case that , as a join - up Government , we need to solve the housing emergency , and we need to reform universal credit . it be only when we get this join - up Government move and work correctly — would the hon . Lady like I to intervene ? I will continue , if that be okay ; I do not need the time . I be good , thank you . everything I have write down have go . I have be strike by the power of word in this Chamber . People out there listen . as have be say , we be work for the good today . we need to make sure that everybody out there hear we work for the good . we believe everyone who come forward , and we thank everybody who have share their story this week . thank you all . far from let anybody down , the hon . member for Lagan Valley ( Sorcha Eastwood ) have lift survivor up with her contribution today . one of they , who have be watch from home , be my mum , who suffer abuse at the hand of a former partner . I witness that abuse grow up , and that be apart from some of the thing that happen to I . the statistic , and the reality , that two woman a week be kill by their partner or former partner particularly terrify I , and always have . that must change , so I sincerely thank the Government for their commitment to halve violence against woman and girl over the come decade . I also thank the Safeguarding Minister for the work that she have do on this issue throughout her career . the vast majority of we in this House know that no tech billionaire , no pound - shop Enoch Powell , and no keyboard warrior can take away that record from she . the silence from Reform party member be utterly deafen today . they might tweet about this issue while we be debate , but they be not participate , and shame on they for that . domestic abuse be a foul manifestation of violence against woman and girl , as the Government recognise when they set out their intention of exclude domestic abuser from the standard determinate sentence 40 % early release scheme , but as they have say , people can be exclude from early release only on the basis of the offence that they commit , not other antecedent . a challenge be that it be not possible to comprehensively exclude domestic abuser because there be no dedicated offence of domestic abuse in law . instead , many abuser be convict of offence such as actual bodily harm and grievous bodily harm , which be govern by a piece of legislation from 1861 that be not write with domestic abuse in mind . domestic abuser convict of such offence be be let out early , or qualify for early release . we have see some such case , and that loophole need to be close . I convene survivor , academic and support organisation to come up with a solution , which exist in the form of a Bill that I introduce : the Domestic Abuse ( Aggravated Offences ) Bill , which would create a specific offence of domestic abuse in law for the first time . it would work in a similar way to racially and religiously aggravate offence by create domestic abuse aggravate GBH , ABH or whatever it might be . beyond give the mean for the Government to exclude domestic abuser from an early release scheme , it would tighten up some of the datum , which be very difficult for academic and other to analyse when they be look into the effectiveness of intervention . do my hon . friend agree that collect datum be so important in really get to grip with the issue ? I could not agree more , and I thank my hon . friend for her contribution . if we do not have the datum that we want on domestic abuse offence , how can we measure whether we be halve violence against woman and girl over this decade , and whether our intervention design to reduce reoffende among domestic abuser be work ? the introduction of a domestic abuse aggravate offence could help employer with risk management ; they could see it when it come up on a Disclosure and Barring Service certificate and press ahead accordingly . I be proud that woman ' s aid and Refuge be back my Bill . they want to see it make a reality . I thank they and many of those in the medium for their support . I also thank member of this House for support my early - day motion 523 , and for give I their support in private discussion , especially folk on the other side of the House . I also thank Ministers for my constructive meeting with they , and the commitment that many have give that we will continue to discuss the Bill , with a view , I hope , to make it a reality . lastly , and most importantly , I thank victim and survivor of domestic abuse , especially those I have have the honour of work with on the Bill , for their courage , resilience , hope and determination to ensure that other do not suffer as they have . rise — Order . before I call the next speaker , I ask Members to reflect on whether they should take intervention , give that they cost time and will squeeze out some member who wish to speak , and who may have personal testimony . I thank all those who have contribute to this powerful debate . violence against woman and girl be a grave issue that urgently demand our attention and action . it be a distressing reality that countless woman and girl across the UK continue to live in fear and face unacceptable violence . however , the digital era have lead to a new arena for abuse , with the rise of online emotional abuse , emotional blackmail , harassment , pressure and coercion to send sexual image , sexual abuse , sexual exploitation , and technology such as deepfake present urgent challenge . perpetrator be exploit digital technology to escalate abuse online to the real world . most worryingly , abuse be now faceless . I will highlight online abuse in this debate . in deepfake and synthetic medium , a person ' s likeness be manipulate to create false and often explicit content , which be weaponise . it be disproportionately woman and girl who be affect . our 2023 report find that 98 % of deepfake video be pornographic , and 99 % of victim be woman . the recent Ofcom report shed further light on the scale of the problem . alarmingly , one in seven adult report have see sexual deepfake . even more troublingly , 17 % of adult think that deepfake depict someone under the age of 18 . those figure expose the harrowing reach of this technology and its potential harm to woman , girl and young child . the report also highlight a critical gap in awareness . nine per cent of adult say that they be not confident that they could identify a deepfake . I welcome the Government ' s recent announcement on criminalise the creation of explicit deepfake without consent . however , legislation be not enough . Ofcom ' s report underscore the need for a co - ordinate response involve Government , tech company and civil society to tackle the issue . develop tool to detect and remove harmful content be absolutely vital , as be ensure that law enforcement agency act swiftly to get the image remove . education be equally important . many victim be unaware of the risk , and public awareness campaign can play a vital role in empower individual to recognise and report harmful content . education be not just for the victim , but for young people , young man and man in society . additionally , we must work with educator to ensure that we have the digital literacy to safely navigate the change landscape . while technology bring tremendous benefit to our life , its misuse should not disproportionately affect woman and girl . legislation like that recently announce by the Government be a vital step forward , but it must be accompany by systemic change and cultural awareness to ensure that all individual , include all woman and girl , can live free from fear and abuse , online and offline . I congratulate the hon . member for Birmingham Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) on all the work she have do over the year stand up for woman and girl and fight violence against they . violence against woman and girl by man be a societal epidemic , and it be right that we in this place and the Government treat it as such . the liberal Democrats welcome the Government ' s pledge to halve violence against woman and girl over this Parliament , and we be keen to reform the law as soon as possible , and to accelerate what should be a national mission to stamp out this awful violence . I particularly welcome the roll - out of the domestic abuse protection notice and order pilot in Sutton borough , which cover my constituency of Sutton and Cheam . the order will allow the police to take strong , more immediate action in domestic abuse case , and be a significant step forward , provide great protection for victim and help to ensure that abuser face the consequence of their action without delay . in my borough of Sutton last month , we be tragically remind of how urgent those protection be . the brutal murder of Gemma Devonish be a devastating blow to our community . her death underscore the dire consequence of not provide all woman with the critical support that they need . it be a dark reminder that those protection be not just necessary , but a matter of life and death . as with any kind of epidemic , we must recognise the warning sign , early indicator and normalise precursor that lead to this awful kind of violence . stalk be not just a crime against someone ' s safety ; it be a violent psychological attack on their very sense of self . it chip away at their emotional wellbeing , their sense of security and their right to simply exist without fear . for far too many woman and girl , this crime be a daily reality , yet despite previous legislative reform , the system still be not properly protect victim of this crime . datum share with I via a freedom of information request show that in London , more than one in three stalk case end with the victim withdraw from the process . that be a shockingly high number , and it should concern we all . in some case , that be because victim disagree with the propose action , but many have tell I that it be also because they feel unable to provide enough evidence , as the burden of proof to achieve a section 4A conviction be set unfathomably high . when the law place such an onerous burden on victim who be so clearly suffer torment , it be our job in this House to home in on it as a flawed piece of legislation . the current law be inconsistent and confusing , and be fail victim as a result . the current division of stalk offence into section 2A and 4A just be not work , and the confusion allow perpetrator to buy time and continue torment their victim with little consequence . I fear that victim , who be overwhelmingly woman and girl , be essentially be tell that they need to be the perfect victim to ensure that the police get a conviction . they repeatedly have to expose their pain and humiliation to the system just to secure fundamental protection from the police . I draw the House ' s attention to a report publish in September by the chief inspector of constabulary , the Independent Office for Police Conduct and the College of Policing . the report , drive by a super - complaint from the Suzy Lamplugh Trust , have force we to face the uncomfortable truth that many of we already know : the system be fail woman and girl . the report explore create a single clear offence for stalk , rather than split it between section 2A and 4A . the London Victims ' Commissioner have echo those call , and I strongly encourage the Government to do the same . the Minister for Safeguarding have promise a review of the current stalk legislation , so I ask again for the timeline for that review . more importantly , when will we see real change to the law to protect victim and hold stalker to account ? I welcome the debate and pay tribute to member for their testimony . the point raise by the hon . member for Lagan Valley ( Sorcha Eastwood ) and the hon . member for Huntingdon ( Ben Obese - Jecty ) relate very much to what I want to say . this place have gain a terrible reputation , and not just in recent year , for predatory behaviour by those who have manipulate and use the exalt power of our elect position to groom , touch inappropriately , sexually assault and rape many woman and young man who have work here . we be all aware of the scandal , and some of we will be conscious of the cover - up . I liken it to the influence that Jimmy Savile be able to wield when he get the key to Broadmoor — it be that dangerous . although well reporting system be now in place , more can always be do to clean this place up . every single one of we should have be require to undergo a Disclosure and Barring Service check before enter this House or the other place , particularly because our title and position open the door to our public institution , include hospital , care home , school and child ' s club and group . check would create more openness and great transparency , and trust should start before we make phone call ask for visit or meeting . the other place run the learn with the Lords education scheme , for example , and although member regularly visit school , there be no check or child protection or safety consideration . I also welcome the significant recommendation in the IICSA report to require improved compliance with statutory duty to inform the Disclosure and Barring Service of individual who may pose a risk of harm to child . although that would be a significant step forward , I want to raise our standard and begin the process immediately . as a prospective parliamentary candidate present myself as a suitable person for election , there be no requirement for I to provide a DBS or criminal record check . that simply be not good enough . make the DBS check a necessary hurdle to enter Parliament would work to clean up politic , and I believe that it would lead to party make well and more thorough choice about their candidate . I be here with the mission of clean up our politic and bring the DBS check to Parliament , which would make it a safe place for we all to be in . I thank the Minister for her statement and for bring this debate to the Chamber . as have already be mention , there have be some powerful contribution today , none more so than that of my friend the hon . member for Lagan Valley ( Sorcha Eastwood ) . I also echo the sentiment of the hon . member for Luton North ( Sarah Owen ) , who mention that those who have a history of amplify the voice of record misogynist be not welcome here to tell we how we should be run our country . secondly and possibly more depressingly , the hon . member for Reigate ( Rebecca Paul ) mention that child watch pornography , and cite the statistic that one in 10 child have watch pornography by the age of nine . this have lead to a horrendous rise in child - on - child sexual abuse ; accord to the police , 52 % of record sexual crime be child - on - child , the young be a child only four year old who upload an indecent image and share it . much more need to be do on this matter with our child . I thank the Minister for mention male victim of sexual violence , and I also thank a charity in my constituency , First Step , which do some incredible work on this issue . it be really important that we focus on the need of victim and survivor . that be why I would like to highlight some of the work that be be do in my constituency . victim of rape , who have already have to endure such horrendous torture , be sometimes leave behind and be victim once again because they get no support whatsoever . that be why for the past 35 year , Shama Women ' s Centre in my constituency have provide sanctuary for victim of domestic abuse , among other incredible work . it help those victim back on their foot , give they training , job skill , advice , financial help and somewhere to stay while they be hide from the perpetrator . this really help woman as they strive for independence in their battle for a well life , and to get away from the horrendous abuse they have experience . we must do more to protect our charity sector ; charity be sometimes the last place that these woman have to go to , because they have be neglect by everybody else . financial support be really need . on the subject of charity that support victim and survivor , yesterday I meet representative of Victim Support . they share that , at a time when demand for their service be surge , they be face a 7 % real - term cut in funding because of the increase in national insurance contribution , as well as cut to police and crime commissioner budget . do the hon . Member agree that we should be do more to support — order . if I be go to get every Member in — and I would very much like to do so — intervention must be short . I agree with the hon . member , which be why I have raise the issue of national insurance on a couple of occasion . in fact , Jasmine House , which support woman who be the victim of rape and already have a two - year waiting list , be look to add an extra member of staff , but be now go to reduce its number of staff member . it just can not afford it , because of the rise in national insurance contribution . with 8 , 000 case of domestic violence be report to the police in Leicester alone , it be clear that we need to ensure that the charity sector receive increase long - term funding , and that the police receive the well possible training on how to help the victim and investigate the case . from our side , we offer cross - party support to help the Government however we can , to make sure that we can help with this matter . I commend all the speech make this afternoon , particularly those make by the hon . member for Lagan Valley ( Sorcha Eastwood ) and by my hon . friend the Members for Luton North ( Sarah Owen ) , for Milton Keynes Central ( Emily Darlington ) and for Rochdale ( Paul Waugh ) . I have to confess that I feel quite shocked by some of the statistic and story I hear , even though this be something I have be involve in for quite some time as a trade unionist . I also find myself warn my daughter to be careful when she go out in a way that I would not with my son , even though they be of a similar age . that be unacceptable in this day and age . datum publish by the National Police Chiefs ' Council in July 2024 find that over 1 million crime of violence against woman and girl be record by the police in 2022 - 23 , equate to nearly 3 , 000 offence every single day , and that violent crime against woman and girl increase by 37 % during the five - year period between 2018 and 2023 . use datum from the crime survey for England and Wales , the Office for National Statistics have find that domestic abuse - relate crime represent 15 . 8 % of all offence record by the police last year . domestic violence be something that affect all culture and society , as be acknowledge by the hon . member for East Grinstead and Uckfield ( Mims Davies ) . in my constituency of Wolverhampton West , we have the headquarters of the Haven Wolverhampton , a charitable organisation that provide practical and emotional support service to woman and child who have suffer domestic violence , abuse and homelessness . the Haven have be establish for more than 50 year and be one of the large refuge provider in the UK , but like other charity it require financial support to assist these woman and child . as a society , we need to maintain and increase such provision throughout the country , and ensure that these organisation get the financial support they need . we also need to safeguard victim of domestic violence in other way . currently , a survivor of domestic violence may be eligible for a debt solution to clear the debt accumulate during their abusive relationship , but once a debt solution be approve , their home address be publish online on the individual insolvency register , which anyone can see . that be obviously terrify for those who have be victim of domestic abuse , because it make they vulnerable to further harm from their ex - partner , who can find their address online . there be an option to have their detail hide by obtain what be know as a person at risk of violence order , but this require they to pay £ 308 and attend court , which can be very difficult for traumatise survivor who be already in debt . I think that we should look at abolish the fee for PARV order . I be very proud that this Labour Government have already take step to halve violence against woman and girl within a decade by , for example , introduce Raneem ' s law , which from this year will see domestic abuse specialist place in 999 control room , and launch the pilot of domestic abuse protection order , as well as roll out the independent legal advocate for rape victim . however , have hear everyone this afternoon , I be sure the House would agree that we all need to strive to do even more . I be humble to take part in this debate . I do not have my own personal testimony to offer , but the issue of violence against woman and girl have become very evident to I in my year as an MP through my constituency surgery . first , I have learn how hard it be for woman to get away and , once an abuser have they in their sight , how very difficult it be for they to escape . secondly , as have be highlight , not least by the hon . member for Wolverhampton West ( Warinder Juss ) , I have learn how abuse can be perpetuate by some of the institution in this country , such as his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs , the financial system and the family court . I have learn those thing , but since my eye be open to the extent of domestic abuse in my constituency , I have really come to admire the Under - Secretary of State for the Home Department , the hon . member for Birmingham Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) for all the work she have do on this issue before she come to this place , as a Back Bencher and now as a Minister . I urge she not to be deter from the incredible work she have be do by the awful experience she have have this week . however , I see she compassionate and typically forthright response to the hon . member for Lagan Valley ( Sorcha Eastwood ) after her extraordinary speech , and all I can say be that I have be very reassure on that point . I just want to pledge my solidarity with the Minister for all she have be do . I want to raise two particular issue that have come through in my casework . very recently , constituent of mine who have be victim of violence have tell I story of how evidence of criminal activity have be remove from a crime scene — a violent crime scene — without forensic evidence be take . I have challenge the Met police about this , and apparently it be no long commonplace for forensic exam to be conduct due to budget cut . consequently , potential key evidence that could have contribute to the safety of my constituent have be lose . I have hear further example of safety equipment , include panic alarm , be remove from the house of vulnerable victim who remain under the threat of be attack , and I be talk about very credible threat to life . I be again inform that this be for budgeting reason . I have write to the Minister about this particular case , and I really hope she will make time for a meeting with I to discuss it . it be unacceptable that budget cut be put the protection and safety of domestic abuse victim at risk , and I really hope the Minister will be able to take this up with colleague , because it be vital that victim who be under threat have sufficient safeguard in place to ensure their protection from past abuser . the case that be be bring to my office have show the immediate impact that Home Office cut to policing be have on the safety and wellbeing of vulnerable victim . in many case involve crime such as rape and murder , victim and bereaved family do not attend trial to avoid further trauma , and the Minister will know , because we have discuss it directly before , that a constituent of mine who be drug and rape by she then boyfriend in February 2020 be quote nearly £ 7 , 000 to access the transcript of the trial in which he be convict with an 18 - year sentence . without a transcript , many victim struggle to find out about the proceeding or why a certain verdict be reach . that be even more important in those case where a not guilty verdict be return . it be common for victim of violent crime to be advise by mental health professional that a transcript of proceeding would aid their healing and help they process their experience . in the previous Parliament , I introduce an amendment to the Victims and Prisoners Bill which , have it pass , would have make provision for victim of crime to access a transcript of their trial free of charge . victim can apply to the Crown court for a free transcript , but in many case , such as that of my constituent , this request be reject . I urge the Minister to take any step available to she and to speak to colleague about what more can be do to increase the availability of court transcript to aid the recovery of victim . violence against woman and girl be one of the most prevalent and pervasive human right violation in the world . as an ongoing survivor of domestic abuse and as chair of the all - party parliamentary group on domestic abuse and violence , I know that it can affect woman at all stage and in all aspect of their life . as survivor , we be complex and multifaceted being , and we be be let down , so I continue to advocate for the need for a multifaceted approach and a comprehensive and cross - departmental strategy that go beyond criminal justice to social security , housing , employment , health and so on to address perpetrator and empower survivor . a whole - system approach be vital . in the time I have today , I will focus my remark on the right of survivor in the workplace . on Second reading of the Employment Rights Bill , I raise the point that domestic abuse could have an impact on an individual ' s work life through unexplained absence , lateness and negatively impact performance . for one in 10 survivor , the abuse continue in the workplace , often with their partner turn up at their workplace or stalk they outside their workplace , which be something I know first - hand . the statutory guidance of the Domestic Abuse Act 2021 remind we how pivotal the role of an employer can be . soon after the general election conclude , the APPG on domestic abuse and violence meet and discuss how parliamentarian can advocate for the right of survivor in the workplace . there be call from organisation , campaigner and member across the House in that regard , which I will raise now . first be the call for a right for victim of domestic abuse to take leave of absence from work and for regulation to be introduce to give effect to that right , include a minimum of 10 day of pay leave . survivor may need to take time off work and may not be able to return to work immediately after escape a perpetrator , for example . they may need time to seek emergency health or housing need , attend court and so much more . I draw the House ' s attention to the fact that 10 day of pay leave for domestic abuse survivor be a provision available in Northern Ireland . pay leave measure have also be implement in other part of the world , such as New Zealand , the Philippines and some state in the USA . I acknowledge that a handful of organisation in the UK provide pay leave for domestic abuse survivor , but many of we believe that right should be accessible to all survivor , no matter who they work for . many of we would also like to see protection for worker from adverse treatment if they be , or be suspect to be a person affect by domestic abuse . that surely must include protection from be dismiss to ensure a survivor ' s long - term earn potential be not negatively impact , as well as ensure financial independence and freedom from economic abuse in many case . my final point on employment right and domestic abuse survivor be about the work that organisation , campaign , such as those lead by the Employers ' Initiative on Domestic Abuse , and trade union have do to ensure that employer take all reasonable step to prevent worker from experience domestic abuse . those step could include implement domestic abuse policy in every workplace and ensure that risk assessment be do for every worker who disclose domestic abuse . that would surely be a progressive next step forward in the struggle to eradicate violence against woman and girl from all part of our society . the history of challenge violence against woman and girl have always have pioneer activism and fighting for social change at its heart . because of so many survivor around the world , I would never allow my voice to be silence . the next step be to look at how we support survivor to make sure that no one have to experience abuse in the workplace . I want to make a brief contribution to this incredibly powerful debate , to draw attention to a specific and extreme form of violence against woman and girl that be take place right now across the whole of the United Kingdom : traffic and modern slavery . woman and girl be traffic into and around the UK , for sex and for other form of exploitation such as labour exploitation and domestic servitude . they be among the most vulnerable people in our society . before be elect , I work for three year on anti - trafficking in Scotland . the story from my time there will haunt I : woman traffic and force into prostitution , force by their captor to have sex with multiple man a day with the money go to their captor , and force to participate in pornography . these be woman with no social network and no knowledge they be even in Scotland . we say , " listen to woman " . these woman do not have the english language skill to say no . there be pimp website where man would leave review of the woman they have pay to have sex with . I will not quote they , but they be spine chilling . it be perfectly clear that these man know that the woman be traffic , coerced and unhappy . some comment show that that be the point . they know that some be girl , not woman . we must do more to tackle this extreme violence against woman and girl . I want to make four brief point . first , let I do something unusual and praise the previous Government . the Modern Slavery Act 2015 set up structure that be important and effective — the right hon . member for Staffordshire Moorlands ( Dame Karen Bradley ) , who be in her place , be instrumental in that — but it have fall into severe abeyance . the focus on suppose abuse of the modern slavery system have all but wreck the good system we have . extremely long wait for the national referral mechanism have make it essentially dysfunctional , and we no long give woman who seek help the assurance that they will not be deport or prosecute . this be important : no woman be complicit in her own abuse . secondly , we must support frontline organisation . the organisation that support vulnerable woman operate on a shoestring budget , such as the Trafficking Awareness Raising Alliance in Scotland . we have to stop make these organisation apply for funding every year . on that note , when I be work in Scotland , across the sector , even people who be quite suspicious of the Labour party , always speak extremely highly of the Safeguarding Minister . thirdly , we must prevent re - trafficking . I consider it the big failure of the british state that woman who escape their trafficker and come to the state for help later find themselves back in the hand of their trafficker . small basic intervention and join - up thinking would prevent that . but too often we say , " well , you ' re rescue now . off you go and make yourself a life . " these vulnerable woman fall back into the claw of their trafficker . it should shame we all . I be a bit nervous about participate in this debate because I be conscious that the fight to stop violence against woman must be lead by woman . we do not need man pontificate about what they think should happen . but I think there be a role for man , not just because man be also traffic in the UK but because concept of masculinity be change for my generation and man young than I . early in my contribution , I refer to Man Culture . if I can be of any assistance at all in the hon . Gentleman ' s quest to find some example , another organisation I would be delighted to recommend to he be beyond Equality . if there be anything I can do , I would be happy to do that . I very much welcome the hon . Lady ' s contribution , because it will be for both gender to step up . we can see concept of masculinity transform before our eye , exacerbate by the internet but also by political intervention . it be incumbent upon we — the young generation of man — to stand up and face that head on . traffic be one of the most extreme kind of violence against woman . it be happen all over the UK right now . we can do more to stop it , and we must . we now have a three - minute limit . in my very short time in this place , I have always be conscious of the history of this Chamber and the speech that have be make in the year and decade previously . however , this debate be the first time I have speak where I have be aware that whatever I say will be dwarf by what have be say in speech previously by every Member who have speak . the right hon . member for Staffordshire Moorlands ( Dame Karen Bradley ) be absolutely right : this be the House at its absolute good . it be a privilege to speak in this debate . I will speak a little bit about some campaigner in my constituency . first and foremost , I will mention the family of Holly Newton and Joanne Tulip , and in particular Joanne ' s mother , Doreen Soulsby , who have be a diligent and doughty campaigner for more than a quarter of a century . I also pay tribute to the work of Northumberland Domestic Abuse Services ; in my first month after be elect , I be extremely honoured to be ask to become one of its patron . I celebrate the work that Sharon Brown and her incredible team do in provide support to some of the most vulnerable people in England ' s most sparsely populate county . one thing I would like to do as a result of this debate be to invite the two Ministers on the Front Bench , the Under - Secretary of State for Justice , my hon . friend the Member for Pontypridd ( Alex Davies - Jones ) , and the Under - Secretary of State for the Home Department , my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) , to come up to Hexham to see the work be do by nda . I would be absolutely honoured to welcome they and to celebrate the work Sharon and her team have be do . since April 2024 alone , NDAS have be into 23 school across Northumberland and work with almost 2 , 000 child on the peril of domestic abuse . ultimately , as my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh East and Musselburgh ( Chris Murray ) be just say , it can be tough to figure out our place in this debate as man . it need to be lead by woman . however , if we do not stand up and speak , we be complicit in contribute to that culture of silence . I have only a minute left , so I will not detain the House ' s attention for too long . I be aware that in this debate , as in so many other , we stand on the shoulder of giant . I be very pleased to be send an email by my office manager during this debate from a constituent of mine , say to my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Yardley just how supportive she be , and how supportive constituent across all our constituency be , of her tireless dedication to woman across the country and to safeguard they . other Members have say what an honour it be to speak in this debate , with such expertise from so many ; I have be strike by not just the passion , but the compassion from member across this Chamber . I be pleased to rise and speak in this debate . other have mention the great work this Labour Government be already do to reduce and halve violence against woman and girl , so , give the time limitation , I will not recount that . I acknowledge that one in four woman in the UK will experience domestic abuse in their lifetime . in Merseyside last year , nearly 20 % of all crime be relate to domestic abuse . I do not think , therefore , we can underestimate the impact of our get this right . economic abuse involve an abuser restrict a victim - survivor ' s ability to acquire , use and maintain money . it be an insidious form of abuse that mean survivor — overwhelmingly woman — remain with abuser because they do not have the money or resource to flee . the charity survive Economic Abuse , which I have mention in this House before , have find that almost 1 million woman be prevent from leave because of this form of abuse — 1 million woman . even if a victim - survivor do manage to leave , economic abuse often continue : wreck credit score prevent they from access the most basic item , such as a mobile phone ; joint mortgage tie a survivor to their abuser so they can continue malicious control ; perpetrator sometimes cruelly withhold maintenance payment for child or deliberately make unreliable payment , leave survivor unable to afford the basic need of they or their child . the Government be serious about change the story and ensure that level of violence against woman and girl fall . to do this , they must put economic abuse at the heart of their work . it be the key to break the cycle and to help survivor to rebuild their life . I hear many harrowing story during my campaigning of inspire woman face the most sickening abuse . I pay enormous tribute to one survivor who come forward with her experience — I can not tell the House the whole story — with Citizens Advice Wirral , which help such people rebuild their life . as have be mention , support be available from so many people who be do excellent work . the story that we have hear show just how important it be that we work in partnership in our community and in this place to deliver for survivor . in my final moment , I pay tribute to the survivor . their work and their bravery have push government of all colour and financial institution to improve the life of survivor . they inspire I , and I will continue to work in this place to eradicate economic abuse . I thank the Minister for her opening speech . equally , as hon . member across the House have do , I thank the Under - Secretary of State for the Home Department , my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) , for her continued championing of this hugely important issue . I will take a moment to pay tribute to the hon . member for Lagan Valley ( Sorcha Eastwood ) and my hon . friend the Member for Cumbernauld and Kirkintilloch ( Katrina Murray ) for their incredible strength in tell we their personal story . I be genuinely ashamed to live in a society where some people see it as acceptable to go up to a woman and tell she that they want to rape she . I find that disgusting . the sad reality be , many of we be not surprise by that . woman I know have experience online abuse where exactly that sort of language have be use towards they . it be not acceptable . it be disgusting . I be ashamed that we live in a society where that happen . I want to take a moment — I have only get a moment — to thank two local champion in my constituency who have do so much to raise this important issue time and again : Councillor Lanie Shears and Councillor Kay Morrison . every year on White Ribbon Day , Kay organise a vigil in Harlow town centre where she and other community champion read out the name of every single woman and girl who have be kill by a man in the previous 12 month . that take 20 minute . last year , they raise a motion on Harlow council call on all councillor , council leader and civic leader to lead by example in their strategic leadership , in change culture , in raise awareness and in engage with man and boy , because , as the Minister say at the start of the debate , everybody need to play their part to get this right . I really recommend that everybody do the White Ribbon training , which give practical advice on how we can support woman . but this issue be about more than that . it do not start with attack on woman or rape or murder . it start with comment in the workplace — misogyny and banter . that be what need to change . we have to change the culture . we have to educate man and boy . we have to say , " enough be enough . " I call the shadow Minister . with the leave of the House , I be grateful to respond to the debate on behalf of his Majesty ' s official opposition . the spirit of the debate have be strident . we have not always be wholly in agreement , but where we have disagree , we have do so with respect and kindness , which be exactly how I approach this issue . I know that the Ministers opposite I do exactly the same . it be not easy to move from be a campaigner to a Minister . as mps , we be campaigner for our own constituency ; that unite we all . I be grateful for the range of contribution make by all hon . member . it be right that we do not shy away from what need say , and I will take a moment to cover a few matter that come up . I must reiterate that in our 14 year in government , a huge amount of work be do in this area . none of it be easy , and none of it be do on its own . I be grateful for the work do by my right hon . friend the Member for Louth and Horncastle ( Victoria Atkins ) , in her role as Minister for Women and in the Home Office ; by the former Safeguarding Minister , Laura Farris ; by my right hon . friend the Member for Witham ( Dame Priti Patel ) , in all her time in government ; and by my right hon . friend the Member for Staffordshire Moorlands ( Dame Karen Bradley ) . as I say early , this be about build on the foundation establish by many woman and much partnership work across constituency and sector . I think of the work of Maggie Blyth , who step up as the national police lead in the wake of the brutal murder of Sarah Everard , follow on from the work of the Casey review , listen to woman ' s testimony and work on that basis of it . I think of Festus and his time as Bedfordshire ' s police and crime commissioner ; I remember join he to learn how mobile phone technology from the Home Office could be download within 24 hour to help woman and girl get the justice that they need . Operation Soteria adopt a transformative approach to tackle rape and other sexual offence : it be a game changer for woman in policing , and have the impact that be need on investigation and prosecution . it be right that the cross - Government tackle violence against woman strategy of 2021 build on the work of those who come before . we have hear about the national communication campaign and the enough campaign . we know of the work to criminalise virginity testing , the work that we do to change the taxi licensing regime , the £ 1 . 5 million a year spend on specialist support service deal with revenge porn , and , of course , the Domestic Abuse Act 2021 , which I mention early . let I now turn to some of the contribution that we have hear today . the hon . member for Milton Keynes Central ( Emily Darlington ) rightly talk about halting violence against woman and girl , and also say that she feel somewhat sorry for I , which I appreciate . however , I must reiterate that the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill , which we debate yesterday , contain no additional work in this realm . these debate be important , and the Minister know that . we need to do more than engage in general debate in the pursuit of justice . I welcome the work that be outline by the Safeguarding Minister early , and we in the opposition will certainly focus on the full eradication of deepfake . as we hear from the hon . member for Thurrock ( Jen Craft ) , victim can never easily move on from the violence perpetrate against woman and girl . offender may forget the detail after their rehabilitation , but we and our constituent know that the victim will never forget . my hon . friend the Member for Huntingdon ( Ben Obese - Jecty ) point out the juxtaposition between what be do by the political party call Reform and its belief that other party do not turn over the stone . what he say be right : no barrier should be unbroken when it come to talk about what happen to woman and girl . where political difference exist , we can say in unity that we in the House must continue to enable woman and girl to feel safe . we must agree that people can turn their life around only by tell the full truth , which be how victim and survivor can feel that true justice have take place . I welcome the cross - Government approach describe by the hon . member for North Warwickshire and Bedworth ( Rachel Taylor ) , and her focus on the subject of coercive control . nothing will get do about that without cross - government work , and I be very much part of that as a Minister . my hon . friend the Member for South West Devon ( Rebecca Smith ) view male violence against woman and girl through a public health lens , and say that a community partnership be vital . she also speak about the dedicated work that need to be do to protect single - sex space . whether it be do in the NHS , by the police or through charity , we need a full picture , and guidance , show what woman and girl and expect , so that male violence against they be deal with and people feel safe through that public health lens and , more important , in those space . the hon . member for Lagan Valley ( Sorcha Eastwood ) , who be no long in her place , speak movingly , poignantly and bravely about the fact that the victim and perpetrator be the people we know and love . it be staggering to hear she say that woman still feel like they literally have to fight for their life . she speak about rape threat culture , and say she be worried that her speech look like a self - indulgent rant . speak up be never a self - indulgent rant . deal with the toxicity , bring the power of woman into the debate and call people out be exactly the bravery it take , and I pay tribute to she on behalf of my party . the hon . member for Poplar and Limehouse ( Apsana Begum ) , who be a very brave lady , speak about the importance of employment and how it can bring someone into the next stage of their life . I pay tribute to somebody I work with stridently at the DWP who work on the employer domestic abuse covenant , which can help get people into work and on to the next step of life . I hope she will lean into that . my hon . friend the Member for Reigate ( Rebecca Paul ) speak about the change in the perception of what love be and the fact that , through social medium aggression , violence in a love relationship be apparently become a norm . she talk about the normalisation of abuse in relationship , how it be confusing for our young man and boy to know what love be , and the link between porn culture and desensitisation . she be right to talk about degrading act that be not act of love — they be act of aggression and violence — and to say that we need to help young man and boy not to get catch up in that culture . that lead I on to my right hon . friend the Member for Staffordshire Moorlands , who speak about AI and tech , about help man to find the solution , how we deal with these challenge and how our way of life be be undermine , which be very concerning . despite the coercive control law , the multi - agency working and the VAWG strategy of 2016 and 2021 and the one come from this Labour Government , there be a change in the challenge of female genital mutilation , modern slavery , groom and domestic abuse — and I reiterate that it be not domestic abuse ; it be criminality in the home . it be not acceptable , and we must always treat it accordingly and root it out . whether it be the update internet safety strategy or other work , all of society need to get behind the challenge that tech and AI will present . I thank the Chair of the Women and Equalities Committee , the hon . member for Luton North ( Sarah Owen ) , for the focus that she be bring to this issue , include on the importance of good male role model and the work on deepfake . I turn to groom gang . the Under - Secretary of State for the Home Department , the hon . member for Birmingham Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) , intervene on I at 1 . 18 pm to say that the ethnicity datum on groom gang be collect and publish . will she and her team place a copy in the Library or share it directly with my office , so that we can be clear what datum be currently available and where it be link to ? for clarity , we want police - record groom gang ethnicity datum , not self - report CSE datum . this link to the previous Government ' s announcement of April 2023 . this proper datum be welcome by Professor Jay , and it be very important . this be not about politic ; it be about clarity and not let this issue lie . the IICSA report look at six town our of what be now report to be 50 , so victim ' voice have simply not all be examine . I want to turn to bandwagoning . the hon . member for Rochdale ( Paul Waugh ) rightly speak about listen to the voice of the victim . my hon . friend the Member for Harborough , Oadby and Wigston ( Neil o ' Brien ) , the shadow Education Minister , say that we be not go to let this lie when it come to groom , because we must not screen out woman ' s and girl ' voice . if we agree with the bandwagon , apparently it be fine , but if we do not agree with the bandwagon , apparently it be " politicise " to call something out . many of we be here focus on and deal with cause because we be on the bandwagon — we believe it . it be what have bring we to frontline politic . we will never let it go . bandwagoning can also come with purpose and real change . if we be go to not just halve violence against woman and girl but eradicate it , let we not be afraid to deal with bandwagon . as a Minister , I get give a speech that I be tell to read out , but the hon . member for Lagan Valley ( Sorcha Eastwood ) remind I who I be today , so I be go to give an impassioned speech . the first person I will respond to be the Minister , the hon . member for East Grinstead and Uckfield ( Mims Davies ) . [ hon . member : " Shadow Minister ! ] sorry , the shadow Minister . no , she be not actually the shadow Minister ; the shadow Minister with this brief be not here . the shadow Home Secretary , the right hon . member for Croydon South ( Chris Philp ) — he certainly get on the bandwagon — be not here . the shadow Justice Secretary , the right hon . member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) , be not here . the Conservatives have to have the same person start and finish the debate . do you know what ? I will give credit to the last Conservative Government for the work that they do . I work with many member on the Opposition Benches to carry out lot of that work , but what happen be that load of brilliant word be write on goatskin and roll up somewhere in this building . really good legislation be pass , include the Modern Slavery Act 2015 , and the Domestic Abuse Act 2021 , which I remember be a Bill , because I work on it — not that I be jump on a bandwagon , too . what do not happen be actual , fundamental change on the ground . be in this debate have be a little bit like be at my own memorial . my husband say that my house look like a funeral parlour . the hon . member for Richmond Park ( Sarah Olney ) say she be pleased to see that my gumption have not go away ; I be indeed very much not dead . I have have lot and lot of correspondence from groom victim — some I have know for year , and some get in touch with I freshly to ask for help with their case , which of course we will provide — and lot of child abuse survivor . I will read out something that a child abuse victim send I in the last few day : " I ' m a victim and survivor , and I give evidence to the IICSA inquiry . I be angry at the lack of response . " he go on to say : " we haven ' t resource the police , the court , victim support , therapy , school , council , and I be angry that man , by and large , have turn this into a political football . " lot of good word have be write on goatskin in this place . the hon . member for Richmond Park say that cut have mean that panic alarm have not be put in place and so forth . my hon . friend the Member for Lowestoft ( Jess Asato ) mention some of the cut in her area ; lot of people mention the issue . do you know what have actually happen ? it be hard than it have ever be for a grooming victim to get a house in this country — a place of safety where she can get away from the grooming , whether it be for sexual exploitation or county line criminal grooming , in which we see terrible case of knife crime . we could have amend the Domestic Abuse Act to give domestic abuse victim priority need . I push the amendment myself . crack ! but it would have put they on a seven - year - long priority need waiting list . as for the Conservatives ' record on the court and the criminal justice system , lot of member have graciously talk about SDS40 today . the shadow Minister mention it at the beginning of the debate . all I can say be that we — many of the people sit behind I , as well as the victim Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Pontypridd ( Alex Davies - Jones ) , and the Home Secretary — work tirelessly to make sure that this time , when it have to be do because of the terrible failure of the last 14 year , we put some exemption into the system . I do not remember that happen before . as the victim Minister mention , the absolute degradation of our justice system over the last 14 year have leave rape victim wait seven year . People can jump on the bandwagon , and can speak in this building on the subject — I welcome every single word that have be say — but it be action that be need . " we accept 18 of the recommendation . " crack ! I have " accept " that I be a size 10 , but it be not fact . accept something do not make it so ; it do not change thing in people ' s actual life . that be my response to the first speech . the Chair of the Women and Equalities Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Luton North ( Sarah Owen ) , mention Gis è le Pelicot . many Members mention issue affect woman around the world , and we do not serve woman in this country if we ignore the plight of woman around the world . gis è le Pelicot deserve to be the person of the year , or the century . what a woman ! we have all watch what she have do with absolute pride . like I , the hon . member for North East Hampshire ( Alex Brewer ) come to this place from the sector ; it make I very happy every time that happen . she talk about the femicide datum and the sticky nature of the list of name that I read out in this place every year — my hon . friend the Member for Harlow ( Chris Vince ) say that it be also read out in Harlow . the hon . member for Epsom and Ewell ( Helen Maguire ) talk about a case in her constituency that will go on this year ' s list , which have not yet be read out . my hon . friend the Member for Milton Keynes Central ( Emily Darlington ) , similarly , mention the murder on Christmas day in her constituency . I be not willing to keep that list long . the Government have talk about the metric by which we will measure change . of course , I want to get rid of domestic violence and violence against woman and girl completely , and I love the suggestion that halve it be unambitious , but I do not remember a previous target . there be no target . femicide will absolutely be part of the target . the murder of woman by man will absolutely be something that we target and measure , because we count what we care about in this country . as my hon . friend the Member for Warrington North ( Charlotte Nichols ) say , focus on perpetrator be vital . we be work with the police to develop a national framework , use data - drive tool and algorithm , to track and target high - harm offender . for too long , we have look only at victim . it be about time we really start to target offender . I will calm myself down for a moment . the right hon . member for Staffordshire Moorlands ( Dame Karen Bradley ) say that when she stand up in the House to scrutinise our work — she do not say " criticise , " but that be the intimation — it should be take in good faith , just as she always show good faith when under scrutiny from I and my sister . that be absolutely how the scrutiny will be receive . she have a record to be proud of on both modern slavery and domestic abuse . she take a cross - Government approach to her work on violence against woman and girl , and that iteration of the strategy be considerably well , and attempt to do much more , than the one that come later . I promise that my door will always be open to she . the right hon . Lady talk about welcome Raneem ' s law . that legislation be inspire by a woman close to my heart who come from Solihull — the neighbouring constituency , close to where I live — whose sister be murder . when they ring 999 , they get no response , so we will embed advice on risk assessment in 999 control room , not just make sure that there be somebody there who care . the measure will ensure that there be real speciality in team , so that victim be refer to appropriate service , not just give the emergency response that they need . we will seek to put dedicated domestic abuse team in every police force in the country . a number of member talk about domestic abuse protection order in their area ; I see the hon . member for Sutton and Cheam ( Luke Taylor ) in his place . domestic abuse protection order be a good example of walk the walk , rather than talk the talk . the legislation be pass four year ago , but absolutely nothing be do . then we take office , and set up scheme that be deliver arrest and custody for people who breach the order . I suggest to the Home Secretary that we might ring a bell for every arrest we get during the pilot . it be all well and good writing word on goatskin , but they do not put people behind bar , or ensure that victim do not ever have to enter a courtroom to get somebody behind bar . that be the outcome we be all strive for , and that be what we have deliver . when I become a Minister , I feel I may have leave a Jess - shape hole to be fill by somebody who would always hold to account the person stand at the Dispatch Box . I can not think of anybody well to fill that Jess - shape hole than my hon . friend the Member for Lowestoft . she talk about funding ; I want she to never stop moan about that . apart from the funding from Refuge , it be not okay that grant for the work she talk about come solely from the Home Office and the Ministry of Justice , which be represent on the Front Bench by Ministers . it be not okay that health service across the country do not fundamentally take on this work . we be grateful to my hon . friend the Member for Cumbernauld and Kirkintilloch ( Katrina Murray ) for her beautiful and impassioned speech , but it be not okay that look at welfare be not a fundamental part of the duty of jobcentre in every part of the country . as many hon . member have say , domestic abuse affect so many area of the life of those affect , and just 10 % of woman affect get a criminal justice response . as my hon . friend the Member for Poplar and Limehouse ( Apsana Begum ) , who be a brilliant advocate on this issue , say , work across Government be the only way to tackle violence against woman and girl , and that be exactly what we will do . I be run out of time . before the hon . member for South West Devon ( Rebecca Smith ) take her seat , her predecessor , Sir Gary Streeter , come to I and say , " you will love the woman who I think will replace I — she ' s an absolute cracker . " he be not wrong . she talk about a terrible incident in her area , and she lead a local response — essentially , an inquiry — that lead to recommendation that change thing on the ground . well do on that , because that be what work . I want to make special mention of the deft manner in which my hon . friend the Member for Rochdale ( Paul Waugh ) speak , and I also want to mention Sara Rowbotham , the whistleblower in the Rochdale case . hon . member do not need to look in Hansard to see if I have refer to this case before ; I write a book six year ago about Sara Rowbotham be a whistleblower in Rochdale . she be one of the brave and good people I have ever work with . as for the Johnny - come - lately shadow Justice Secretary , I look forward to read the book he be write on the subject . I be about to run out of time . I just want to say a massive thank you to everybody who speak ; I be sorry I have not be able to mention they all . I can not stress enough that the thing that matter be make something actually happen . as for wave flag , that time be over . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider the matter of tackle violence against woman and girl . debt Advice Services Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Vicky Foxcroft . ) " follow that ! " be the first thing to say . let I try . I will start by say that often the british public would rather talk about sex than debt . both can equally cause a lot of trouble , though . a 2019 study show that the majority of people in this country believe it be easy to talk about miscarriage than about money . how that have change in recent year , when the cost of living have become the top topic of conversation for million of people because they be drown in debt . indeed , they be now the majority . in my constituency of Walthamstow , nearly 55 , 000 people be in financially vulnerable circumstance . that be 58 % of my local population and way above the national average of 38 % . yet the truth be that debt be suffocate million of people in this country ; it be not just a north - east London phenomenon . the Joseph Rowntree Foundation recognise in October that there be 7 million low - income family in this country go without the essential in the previous six month , include 5 . 4 million who have experience food insecurity in the previous month . that be a fancy term for starve themselves because they could not afford to put food on the table . furthermore , 4 . 3 million low - income household be in arrear on at least one household bill or credit commitment , and 14 million people in this country have less than 100 quid in their saving . one piece of Lego stick in the washing machine and they be do . some would say that take on debt in response to that be manageable — and it be for some people . that be how they have get through the crisis . however , that be not the one person every four minute who be declare bankrupt or insolvent in this country . the Registry Trust estimate that 4 . 6 million people have one or more county court judgment . they be issue at a rate of 2 . 5 time more in low - income community such as mine than in high one . at the end of last year , lender write off £ 576 million of debt , of which £ 291 million be credit card debt . that be £ 3 million a day be write off because people will just never pay it back . four million household hold a loan they originally take out to pay for food or housing — that be worth around £ 9 . 6 billion . some £ 2 . 3 billion of that be owe on bill that have a massive consequence if people do not pay they or fall behind , such as council tax , rent or mortgage and energy bill — the kind where people end up lose their home or with the bailiff at the door . it be not hard to see why . this be not profligacy ; there be just too much month at the end of many people ' s money . high inflation since the end of 2021 have bake in high price in area such as food , and energy cost be rise again . private rent have continue to increase ahead of inflation , up 8 . 7 % last year and high in place such as Walthamstow . interest rate might have see two cut , but the full impact of elevated interest rate be still feed through into mortgage . yes , the legacy of Liz Truss will be feel for decade to come , in the empty pocket and multiple eviction . so sue I for say so . the Government set up a financial inclusion committee with consumer group and financial institution to look at how to provide individual who have poor credit history with access to safe and affordable credit . in this target - rich environment , there be much for the legal loan shark in this country to feast on — and feast they do . low - income household in this country owe £ 23 billion in unsecured loan and credit card . that be up from £ 19 billion just in May last year . a total of 2 . 2 million low - income family have high - cost credit loan such as payday loan or pawn shop arrangement . three million people tell Ipsos last year that somebody in their family have go to an illegal lender in the last three year . bank do not want to lend to these people because they be see as a bad bet . that be because of the cost of living crisis : they just can not get hold of the money to keep thing move . our credit union movement , which have be promise so much by so many different government , just can not grow to keep up with the need . government have promise to invest in it but fail to do so . it have be as rip off as those who end up at Wonga or Klarna to make end meet . I pay tribute to group such as Fair4All Finance , which provide funding for credit union such as the London Capital credit union that work in Walthamstow , but no credit union can compete with the online lender who be pummel our constituent on their phone and on their website , offer they unprotected credit to get through to the end of the month so that they can buy a pizza . then they stick they with late repayment fee and charge before lend to they again , even though they can not repay it , because they be stick in a spiral of unaffordable debt . in all of this debt , the most important thing that a person can do be talk about it . that mean that they need somebody to talk to , because it could be the critical difference between get out of the hole that they be in and bury themselves even far . the Financial Conduct Authority impose a levy on all regulated financial service company to pay for such support , and that include fund the Money and Pensions Service . other such as the citizen advice bureaux , which many of we will pay tribute to in our constituency , and StepChange have to fundraise for themselves . ultimately , in this environment we can not afford to keep funding failure . we need to prevent people get into debt in the first place and move they off the high - cost credit that cause so much of it . however , so few people in the current environment get the help that they desperately need to get out of this nightmare . the 2018 independent Wyman review find that just 1 . 1 million people get debt advice , with just 13 % of those consider indebted . by 2020 , it be estimate that 1 . 7 million be get help . the Government set a strategy of 3 . 7 million by 2030 , but , just last year , the Money and Pensions Service only see 2 million people . that be not through a lack of try . some 82 % of debt adviser tell MAPS that there have be a large increase in demand , while just over half of they report a decrease in the resource to cope with it . that be the nub of the debate today . the total funding available for debt advice in this country in 2018 be £ 196 million , with about a third of that come from the levy on financial service and the rest come either from local government or fair share creditor — the payment that people can get in a debt repayment plan to pay for service . we now know that the financial service levy be raise about £ 78 million , but we have no idea what be happen to the rest of the money need , not least because local government be on its knee after 14 year of conservative cut . my own local authority be cut the support that it offer to people struggle with council tax payment , let alone provide any debt advice . it be not alone . Exeter CAB have see a £ 125 , 000 cut to its service , woke CAB a £ 189 , 000 cut and Coventry Independent Advice Service a cancel grant for £ 325 , 000 . the number go on across the country . funding will get hard too because of the cost of living crisis , as more and more people can not afford to make a debt repayment plan in the first place . the CAB say that half of the people it work with have a negative budget , and 66 % of Money Advice Service user be also in that position . therefore , there be a risk that we will not get the funding to get people out of this hole . the Money Advice Service need to get involve in case early , but a consultation by the previous Government last year on the future of the service say that , look at what the overall level of debt advice should be , the funding require be out of scope . above all , it be scandalous , give how implicate the " buy now , pay later " company — the Klarnas , Clearpays and Laybuys of this world — be in the debt problem in this country and the length of time it have take to get even close to some kind of regulation of they , that they do not even contribute to this pot , because they be not a form of regulated credit . not only be our constituent go without protection from the ombudsman when they be mis - sell product ; these company be not even pay for the damage that they do . yet around one third of people who need debt advice have " buy now , pay later " debt . that be why I be urge the Government — especially in the light of delay in regulate company , which have a windfall this Christmas and will have another one next Christmas — to consider a windfall tax on the BNPL company to help pay for the debt advice that be so desperately need . the company have write to I claim that they be not against be regulate , which be odd because I be at the Labour party conference where they stand on a platform and claim to be so . they have also say that they be happy to contribute to make donation towards debt advice , so let we take they at their word , and squeeze they as much as they have squeeze our constituent . we also have to stop commercial company that make million of pound from pretend to offer debt solution and claim that they be help consumer rather than push they far into debt . at the very least , the Insolvency Service should regulate such company . frankly , I would prefer a law that ensure that excessive profit can not be make from somebody else ' s personal debt by cap the charge . sickeningly , many " buy now , pay later " company present themselves as a money management service . that be why I be ask the Government to develop measure on what lender be do not only to reduce financial exclusion but to ensure that they be not the cause of debt themselves through bad lending practice . even America , that great bastion of communist thinking , do more . the Community Reinvestment Act give lender an explicit obligation to meet the need of all borrower in their locality , include those on low income , to help stop they be the main meal of the legal loan shark in the first place . that be why we need to ensure that the Money and Pensions Service do not become primarily a website and helpline . tackle debt in community mean help people in community , especially give the variation in debt between area . if the service be just online , that do not uphold the principle of help those most in need , and especially the most vulnerable . that matter because of the number of people who would benefit . in 2021 , the service define those in need as people who be behind on one priority bill or face bailiff . it separate out those people that it think just need money guidance — tip on how to budget — but those people be build up arrear , and be recognise to be at a tipping point . some 8 million people be list as need debt advice , but a further 13 million be at that tipping point . any of we who have have someone come to our constituency surgery in financial difficulty know that the soon we intervene , the more chance we have of success . with 21 million people at a tipping point , let we not let they tip ; let we help they now . research by the Centre for Responsible Credit show that such people be already under extreme financial pressure . they frequently borrow to make end meet . they use " buy now , pay later " , have unauthorised overdraft , and be already behind on their consumer payment . if we underestimate the number of people in debt because the big group be well at juggling , can we really say that it be not a problem to be constantly borrow from Peter to pay Paul , Paul to pay Penelope , and Penelope to pay both of they ? million of people in this country be one bad argument with their partner , one new school uniform item need or one parking fine away from be unable to manage , and they have just be through a month when everyone spend , on average , an extra £ 700 because it be Christmas . these people do not need we to judge they ; they need we to help they . if we do not massively increase the funding for money advice service and ensure that their focus be on prevent debt in local community , it will not just be personally devastating for million of people but hamper our chance of get economic growth . ultimately , I be ask Ministers to introduce a cost - cut measure . the National Audit Office report in 2018 that debt problem be so detrimental to the wellbeing of the british public that they lead to high public spending on both welfare service , such as mental health service , and state - subsidise housing to the tune of £ 900 million a year . that be why we ultimately need a financial inclusion committee to look at not just the cost of credit but how we stop people get rip off in the first place , and to be a consumer champion across the piece , whether on energy deal , finance or even local public service debt advice provision . in the end , if we join up the dot we really will save everyone money — the one thing that right now nobody have . it be a pleasure to follow my hon . friend the Member for Walthamstow ( Ms Creasy ) , who speak incredibly passionately about the difficulty of debt . there be a lot of debt in my community , which appear , on the face of it , to be relatively affluent , but one of the problem be that people feel a huge compulsion to maintain that appearance . I have speak to a lot of people on the doorstep , and in the course of the submission that we make as a constituency to the Social Mobility and Child Poverty Commission , about the fact that people be really struggle and find it incredibly difficult . in area such as mine , where there be not a perception of poverty , there be simply no service to assist people who need help . my constituency have no citizen advice bureau anywhere , no law centre — nothing . when people have difficulty , they therefore do not know where to turn . we need to do the good we can to improve civil legal aid . citizen advice bureaux be partly fund by local government , which be cut , and partly through the legal advice work they do that be charge at legal aid rate . unfortunately , since those be now so difficult to work under , all those advice service have be decimate . my local citizen advice bureau speak to I — I say local ; it be not in the constituency , though it can occasionally do some in - person transitory work — about how important it be to see people face to face . it say vulnerable people , old people and other might in theory have online access , but actually can not go through a complex system to resolve their debt without that consistent face - to - face assistance . we need to aspire not just to improve telephone and online service , but to ensure that in - person advice be provide . my hon . friend briefly touch on the quality of advice that people be receive and the fact that although the Financial Conduct Authority regulate the product that people be be sell around debt reduction — they be product — there be a real problem of mis - sell they , despite the theoretical regulation . unfortunately , regulation be only as good as the enforcement . it be important that we keep discuss the matter and that we bring real change to the advice landscape because our resident need we to . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Walthamstow ( Ms Creasy ) on secure the debate . I very much recognise and have see the work she have do over the year to raise the profile of responsible consumer credit practice and effective debt advice . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Congleton ( Mrs Russell ) for her contribution and specifically for raise the experience of her constituent . credit , when offer responsibly , can be an essential tool for people who have to manage unexpected cost or who need to smooth their cash flow . as a government , we want to support consumer in have access to credit when they need it . but , at the same time , we be determined to ensure that access to credit come with robust protection to ensure that lending be affordable and consumer be protect when thing go wrong . that be why in October last year we publish a consultation on a propose regulatory regime for " buy now , pay later " product . the regime will introduce well protection for million of consumer and will bring " buy now , pay later " firm into the regulatory perimeter of the FCA . that in turn will mean that firm offer " buy now , pay later " product will be require to pay specific annual FCA fee and levy . among those be the financial guidance levy , the proceed of which fund free debt advice service . as I turn to the importance of debt advice , I pay tribute to the thousand of debt adviser across the country for the critical work they do to provide support for those in need . we all value the debt adviser . as my hon . friend have just say , " buy now , pay later " company do not yet contribute to the levy that pay for those people , but the company themselves have say that they would make voluntary contribution . would the Treasury consider approach they to get that money ahead of their be part of the regulatory landscape , so that we can have more of these brilliant debt adviser ? I be sure that Treasury official and the Economic Secretary to the Treasury , my hon . friend the Member for Hampstead and Highgate ( Tulip Siddiq ) , will be in close contact with the sector about any proposal they have . it be important to emphasise that because of the regulation we be consult on for the new regime , that will mean that " buy now , pay later " firm will be require to pay those specific fee and levy , which will help fund free debt advice service . we know that fund those service be important because intervention through debt advice service not only prevent financial difficulty from escalate , but protect people ' s overall mental health and wellbeing . more widely , there be positive effect for family , community and the economy at large . as a new government , we be commit to support national and community - base service through the Money and Pensions Service , or MAPS as it be commonly know . those service provide advice to hundred of thousand of individual and family in need in England . in December , MAPS publish its first debt advice impact report , which show that across 2023 - 24 people access debt advice through MAPS - fund service gain an estimate £ 48 million of extra income . that underline the fact that for many people , advice not only allow they to deal with their debt problem , but help they to find a way forward with more money in their pocket . eighty - seven per cent of people who receive MAPS - fund debt advice say they would recommend the service to someone in a similar situation . outside of England , the UK Government provide funding through the financial service levy to the devolved government in Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland . as debt advice be a devolved matter , the devolve government have responsibility for deliver those service within their nation and for tailor provision to the need of their local community . my hon . friend speak about the gap between those who need debt advice and those who be currently access it . the Government recognise that gap and the need to tackle it . funding level , which my hon . friend mention , be regularly review to reflect demand , inflation and evolving need . the MAPS debt advice budget for the upcoming financial year will be communicate in the usual way in the spring , and I will ensure that my hon . friend be inform . my hon . friend the Member for Walthamstow mention the MAPS consultation last year on the future of its debt advice commission strategy . map publish its response to that consultation in October , set out its commitment to increase debt adviser wellbee , further building adviser ’ skill and deliver digital transformation across the debt advice sector . as part of its effort to address unmet demand for debt advice , MAPS have also launch its debt advice modernisation fund , a grant initiative design to support project aim at enhance and modernise debt advice service in the not - for - profit sector . project be currently under way and will be complete by the end of March . my hon . friend touch on the wide issue of financial inclusion . I assure they that the Government be take further step to ensure that individual can access the financial service they need . in my constituency , the Whitmore Reans Welfare Centre , a voluntary organisation , signpost individual to the debt advice that they need . in the past , the centre receive funding for a part - time or full - time caseworker , but it be find it increasingly difficult to provide the kind of one - to - one advice mention early , which be so useful for resident . can the Minister give any advice on how to help organisation of that nature so that constituent can be signpost to , and give , one - to - one advice ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that constituency case and highlight the important work that that organisation do for his constituent . I can not comment from the Dispatch Box on individual funding decision , but he underline the importance of tailor to local need . although there may be a national priority to ensure that people be provide with debt advice , individual local debt advice agency will need to tailor their service to the need of their community . he be an excellent advocate for his constituent in that regard . alongside the debt advice service that the debate have focus on , it be important , as I be say , that individual can access the financial service that they need . that be why the Government announce in December our intention to develop a financial inclusion strategy that will aim to far tackle barrier to individual and household ability to access affordable and appropriate financial product and service . the strategy will be support by a committee that the Economic Secretary to the Treasury convene for the first time in December , which will consider the problem of debt . I will turn my attention briefly to the work that the Government be do to support vulnerable individual and business repay debt to the public sector . the Government debt management function functional centre , base in the Treasury , convene the debt fairness group — a collaboration with the debt advice sector that identify opportunity to continuously improve public sector debt recovery process . the functional centre ' s work include debt management toolkit to support public sector body deal with those face physical and mental health challenge , and to help they identify and support the 8 . 7 million adult in the UK who have experience economic abuse . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Walthamstow once again for raise this important matter . I have no doubt that she will continue to be a champion on the issue that we have discuss . the Government remain committed to provide accessible debt advice and promote financial inclusion . we be committed to ensure that everyone have the support they need to manage their finance effectively and build a more secure future for themselves and their family . question put and agree to . House adjourn .