prayer - [ Mr Speaker in the Chair ] member will have see that today ' s Order Paper carry a memorial notice of Lieutenant Colonel Frank Heilgers , Royal Artillery , Member for Bury St Edmunds . throughout this year , which mark the 80th anniversary of the end of the second world war , we will commemorate on the Order Paper those member who give their life in service of their country during world war two . oral Answers to Questions Culture , Media and Sport the Secretary of State be ask — I call James Naish — not here . community Spaces what assessment she have make of the contribution of community space to civil society . the Government be commit to create thriving community space , include community centre , youth club and sport facility , that offer vital resource for community across the country . my Department be allocate over £ 85 million of funding in 2025 - 26 to create fit - for - purpose , welcome space for young people . that include launch the well youth space fund . I thank the Minister for her reply . Swanscombe pavilion in my constituency be at the heart of the Swanscombe community . it host dedicated lunch club for old people , provide a hub for local sport team , and be a venue that local people could hire for party . the building have fall into disrepair , and the town council be search desperately for the fund to rebuild or refurbish it , have be unable to obtain funding from the youth investment fund or the community ownership fund . what guidance could the Minister offer on bring this crucial building back into community use ? I be pleased that my hon . Friend be able to meet the Under - Secretary of State for Housing , Communities and Local Government , my hon . friend the Member for Nottingham North and Kimberley ( Alex Norris ) , on Monday to discuss this issue , which fall under his remit . as a local MP , I know from my constituency the important role that community space play in support local group ; they bring a huge benefit locally . the Government encourage community group seek funding to use the tool available on the my Community website , which suggest funding source . I hope this information will help the council to work out its next step , alongside the feedback that it should have receive on its unsuccessful application to the community ownership fund . community space be crucial hub for so many people , and our church play a key role in provide such space . all Saints parish church in Hertford in my constituency have be in its beautiful riverside location for almost 1 , 000 year . over the past six year , it have be able to reclaim £ 50 , 000 of vat use the list place of worship grant scheme , include for repair to the tower , refurbishment of the bell and rebuild the church organ . will the Government extend the scheme beyond 2025 , and if so , what will the allocation be ? this issue fall within the remit of the Minister for Creative Industries , Arts and Tourism . he will answer a question on this later , but the Government be work on it . short - term Lets : regulation what plan her Department have for the regulation of short - term let . we aim to get up a statutory registration system for short - term let very soon , not least because we want to make sure that local authority have all the datum that they need to assess local accommodation need , and so that there be a level playing field for different kind of accommodation . I thank the Minister for his answer . my constituent in Kensington and bayswater regularly raise this issue with I , and be look forward to the registration scheme , not least so that we can well enforce the 90 - day rule in London . do the Minister have any further information on when that scheme will come online ? have he consider give council license power , perhaps through the devolution Bill , so that where a high concentration of short - term let be take property out of the private rent sector , we can consider the number ? my hon . friend ask two question . the first be about the timing . we have already do the initial phase . I hope that we will be able to make an announcement fairly soon about the technical element , which we hope to get up and run this year . the second point be important : what be the final purpose of this registration scheme ? we be in discussion with the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government , because we want to make sure that the scheme work and deliver what people want , which be a really strong local visitor economy , but we do not want to undermine local housing strategy . holiday let play an important part in the tourism economy ; 20 million people visit the lake every year , and they need somewhere to stay . have say that , in the last five year especially , we have see a gobbling - up of the long - term private rent sector and local people force out by a massive growth in short - term let . will the Minister speak more with the Minister for Housing and Planning about how planning law can be change , so that council and national park can put a limit on the number of short - term let in the community , and take action on second home , too ? I agree with every single thing the hon . Member say , and I will do as he urge . National Youth Strategy what progress her Department have make on create a national youth strategy . we have waste no time in crack on with the national youth strategy . we have almost finish recruit to the youth advisory group and the expert advisory group , and I can tell the House that we have take suggestion from Conservative Members and include a member of the uniformed youth group on that youth advisory group , which will meet for the first time in late January or early February . my official be review the evidence base , which they will consider , and we be launch the strategy in the summer , with an interim report expect in the spring . my constituent Kylie be a teacher who work with exclude young people who have some excellent idea about what we can do to address antisocial behaviour and improve youth provision . can the Secretary of State provide an update on how the national youth strategy consultation will involve young people , so that we make sure that they be engage in future policy decision ? we be absolutely determined to put young people back in charge of their destiny . they know well than we do the challenge that they face , and be often well at identify the solution . that be why we have put young people in charge of the strategy . we be co - produce it with they , and we will seek out a range of young people ' s voice from every part of the country and every background as part of the process . swimming be a really important skill for young people . I learn to swim at the Sovereign centre in Eastbourne , but so many pool across the country have close — 250 since 2015 . it be critical that the national youth strategy refer to swimming pool , and support for young people when it come to swimming . will the Secretary of State ensure that be include in the strategy , and will she meet I and Eastbourne borough council representative to discuss how we can well protect our pool in Eastbourne ? I would be delighted to offer the hon . Gentleman a meeting with the Department on this critical issue ; I would be amazed if it do not come up in the national youth strategy . the strategy be lead by young people , and it be for they to determine their priority , but I hear this point make by young people in my constituency of Wigan and across the length and breadth of the country . the Under - Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport , my hon . friend the Member for Barnsley South ( Stephanie Peacock ) , be work very closely with the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government , and we be determined to address this issue . I call the shadow Minister . I thank the Secretary of State for her answer . when she cancel the national citizenship service and announce a consultation on the national youth strategy from the Dispatch Box , she start to lay out how she intend to fund the strategy . that be over two month ago . since then , the cost of borrowing have reach its high point since 1997 , and it be quite clear that significant spending cut be on the way . can she tell the House in further detail what plan she have for revenue and capital spending under the national youth strategy ? can she guarantee that the Chancellor , in a desperate attempt to save her job , will not balance the book by put the burden on the back of our young people ? this be get a little bit tired . young people should be the focus of this House . we have already announce that £ 100 million of dormant asset funding will be dedicate to the provision of service , facility and opportunity to young people , and for 2025 - 26 , we be allocate over £ 85 million of capital funding to create fit - for - purpose , welcome space for young people , include through the new well youth space fund . we be be drive by the need of young people . I have to say to the hon . Gentleman that in addition to leave we with an incredible economic mess , the Conservatives leave we with a series of commitment to young people that do not address any of their need , and no single youth strategy . frankly , they should be ashamed . Small Music Venues what step her Department be take to support small music venue . we have Arts Council England ' s Supporting Grassroots Music fund , and in addition , we be push the live event industry to introduce a voluntary levy on arena and gig event to support small music venue . I have a number of crucial small venue in my constituency , include the Cornish Bank , the Chintz Bar , the Old Bakery and the Princess Pavilion , to name just a few . they be vital for the cultural ecosystem of Cornwall ; they foster new talent and bring band from outside the county down to we . I be pleased to hear that the Minister be consider a scheme in which large venue contribute part of their taking to small venue . he say it would be voluntary , but if that do not work , would he consider a mandatory scheme , and what would be the timeline ? can he confirm that the business rate scheme will be formulate to support small venue from 2026 ? everybody be get in lot of question . if the scheme do not happen voluntarily , will we make it statutory ? yes , but I be very hopeful that we will have a voluntary scheme up and run . I have already meet industry representative , and I think we be move in that direction . my hon . friend be absolutely right about the provision for business rate . obviously , we have now introduce the 40 % relief , and we have say that any business that have a rateable value of less than £ 500 , 000 will get an even well deal next year . I think that Roger Taylor from Queen go to school in Truro , and I be sure you will know , Mr Speaker , that it be sade ' s birthday today . she be one of Britain ' s great singer — and I know you be a smooth operator . I will leave it to the Chair of the Select Committee to come back on that . I be grateful for the Minister ' s commitment to the issue . he will know that it be the cornerstone of the Select Committee ' s work on grassroots music venue , and he also know that our music ecosystem be very finely balanced . grassroots venue be still shut at an alarming rate , and not one of the top 10 well - sell song of 2024 be from a british artist . will the Minister look again at another of our report ' s recommendation : the recommendation for a fan - lead review of music ? will he ensure that we include the voice of artist and manager , as well as venue and promoter , in discussion on funding for grassroots music venue from , for example , the new live — live music Industry Venues and Entertainment — Trust ? that be four question , and the answer be yes to nearly all of they , other than the one about the fan - lead review . the Secretary of State have charge I with come up with a 10 - point plan for music this year , and I have turn it into a 12 - point plan . I very much hope to work with the Select Committee on deliver that plan . music be an important part of the UK ' s soft power around the world . there be nothing well than see a band that we first see in a tiny venue many year ago play in a massive arena . we want that success for all our musician in the UK , and it start with creative education . responsible Gambling what step her Department be take with the gambling and gaming industry to support responsible gambling . the Government be commit to reduce gambling - relate harm and its impact . that be why we be introduce a range of reform to ensure that people can gamble safely , include a stake limit for online slot game , financial vulnerability check and tough regulation on direct marketing . we be also aware of the concern around the blurring of boundary between gambling and video game , and we be pay close attention to novel and emerge gambling and gambling - like product . I thank the Minister for her response . we all know that 2 . 5 % of the population be consider to be problem gambler , and 44 % of that population be at high risk of suicidal behaviour , accord to the excellent charity Gambling with life . of course , the loss of any life to gambling addiction be deeply sadden , and I give my condolence to all the affected family . the impact of problem gambling stretch far and wide across the UK , include in my constituency of Monmouthshire , and it should be consider a public health issue . what cross - departmental work be be do to tackle the concern issue of suicide due to gambling ? I thank my hon . friend for raise such an important question . of course , any life lose be an absolute tragedy . when I be the shadow gambling Minister , I visit the Gordon Moody residential treatment centre , which support people with gambling - relate harm . on that visit and at other meeting , I hear at first hand about the devastating impact that gambling can have . we be commit to work across Government on this issue , particularly with the Department of Health and Social Care , include by establish a comprehensive support and treatment system , fund by the statutory levy , and by strengthen message in order to raise awareness of the risk of harmful gambling . the Minister will not be surprised to hear I raise the issue of the disproportionality of affordability check on those bet on racing , and the reform of the bet levy . I be grateful for the positive tone take so far , and the constructive engagement from she and the Secretary of State . talk between the gambling industry and the racing industry about the bet levy continue , but I think ultimately Ministers will be require to make a decision . we need the bet levy to be increase overall , and apply to race hold overseas that people be bet on here . we think there will be not just a fiscal forecast but a mini - Budget in March . can those industry start work with the Treasury now to make sure that there be plan to reform the bet levy in the Finance Bill ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for that question . he be a huge champion for the horseracing industry . of course , the Government and I recognise the significant contribution that race make to british sporting culture and the rural economy in particular . we be disappointed that talk have not be successful . the Government have hear race ' s concern about the financial check , and about the fact that there have not be an agreement . the Minister with responsibility for gambling and the Secretary of State continue to work on this issue . creative Education what discussion she have have with Cabinet colleague on support creative education . my hon . friend will know that the Education Secretary have launch a review of the national curriculum to put art , sport and music back at its heart , where they belong . we be appal by the way that the previous Government run down the creative subject , lead to a huge drop - off in the number of young people take those subject at GCSE . label they all as Mickey Mouse subject be not just entirely offensive but incredibly damaging to the economy . the creative industry support one in seven job in this country , and we be determined to equip our young people to get those job , contribute to this country and write the next chapter of our national story . I thank the Secretary of State for her answer . every young person deserve to experience the magic of music . thank to wonderful organisation in my constituency of Harlow such as Rock School and Livewire , many get that opportunity , but not all of they . what be she do to work with the Secretary of State for Education to ensure that young people can discover their talent , wherever they come from ? my hon . friend be absolutely right that talent be everywhere , but opportunity be not , and we be determine for that to change . I be not sure whether I have mention that I recently go on a visit with Ed Sheeran — [ interruption . ] thirty - eight time , say my hon . friend the Minister for Creative Industries , Arts and Tourism . in Ipswich , an entire ecosystem be be create that equip young people with those skill and that love of music at school , and go all the way through enable they to perform at small and large live music venue , and to get the skill that they need to work in the music industry . we would like to replicate that model around the country . we be work with the newly form Ed Sheeran Foundation and other to progress this model . as my hon . friend the Minister mention , I have ask he to come up with a 10 - point plan to support the music industry . by the time we have finish , it will probably be about 100 point , but we make no apology for want to grip this issue and bring the magic of music to every child in the country . as the Secretary of State will know , Scotland ' s budget commit to a landmark £ 34 million uplift in cultural spending , with £ 20 million go to Creative Scotland to support creative education funding group , such as Sistema Scotland and the Youth Music Initiative . will she encourage her scottish Labour colleague to get behind this spending , and to vote for the budget ? I recently meet incredible group from Scotland that be do great work through charitable trust to extend the power of music to every child in Scotland . they have a particular emphasis on child in care , which we really welcome , and would like to replicate . Scotland be also create music library across the country to ensure that young people have access to instrument . I have discuss that with Angus Robertson , my counterpart in the Scottish Government . this Government want a much more constructive relationship with the Scottish Government . when it come to music , party political difference should be lay aside , and we should work together to make sure that all young people can access the magic that music bring . Grassroots sport what step her Department be take to support grassroots sport . what step her Department have take to support grassroots sport in Stevenage . grassroots sport club be the beat heart of community up and down the country . the Government be act to support grassroots sport through our ongoing investment in Sport England and the delivery of our £ 123 million multi - sport grassroot facility programme . I recently meet the Football Foundation , which be dedicate to transform grassroots football in England by fund and develop community facility . its work include building and refurbishing pitch , clubhouse and change room , ensure that everybody have access to quality football environment . by invest in grassroots football , it aim to improve participation , improve health and strengthen community . what assessment have the Department make of the impact of biodiversity net gain requirement on investment in community sport facility ? biodiversity net gain be a legal requirement for all new development and be not specific to sport facility . the Government be work with Sport England , the Football Foundation and wide grassroots sport to help reduce the sector ' s impact on the environment . that of course include support these organisation in meet their obligation regard biodiversity net gain . I understand that the Football Foundation will meet official from the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , which oversee the implementation of biodiversity net gain , to discuss this issue far . I thank the Minister for her response . last year , in my constituency , the Stevenage Football Club Foundation deliver more than 9 , 000 hour of activity in grassroots sport and engage over 15 , 000 participant , generate nearly £ 10 . 7 million - worth of social value . this do not happen only in my constituency . last year , the 72 English Football League community club organisation deliver more than £ 1 . 2 billion - worth of social value across this country . will the Minister commit to support local community club organisation , such as the Stevenage FC Foundation , in engage local people and directly support community ? I pay tribute to the Stevenage FC Foundation and the many other community organisation up and down the country for their important work . local community club organisation use the power of sport to change life through charitable and community activity , often through delivery across a range of area , from health to wellbeing and employment . I have see it in my own area of Barnsley , with Reds in the Community , which do brilliant work across my town . there be grow storm cloud in rugby union . at the grassroot , club be up in arm about what be go on in the leadership . they call for a general meeting , which be deny . one have now be agree and will happen in March . when ask in write whether there will be a review of the finance or governance of the Rugby Football Union , the Government say that there be no plan for one . in the light of what I have set out , will they reconsider whether there should be a review of the governance , and do they have confidence that the RFU will be able to solve this issue ? there be also rugby league . of course , Mr Speaker ; we would not forget that . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for raise that incredibly important point . national govern body be of course independent of Government , and it be for the RFU to answer for its approach . the DCMS note that the chair of the RFU stand down recently . the Secretary of State and I meet regularly with rugby stakeholder , and will continue to do so . my eld granddaughter love football . she be 15 year old and play in goal . the interest in girl and lady ' football in Northern Ireland be exceptional , as it be here on the mainland . I know that the Minister be committed to it . what have be do to ensure that girl and woman ' s football be promote across this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland to their advantage ? I be grateful to the hon . Gentleman . a few year ago , I raise some eyebrow by have a photograph take in this Chamber as part of the woman ' s parliamentary football team . that certainly gain a bit of attention for woman ' s football . as Minister for sport , I recently hold a meeting with Karen Carney regard the woman ' s football review implementation group . we be keen to promote woman ' s football and do everything that we can to encourage girl and woman to get involve . I call the shadow Minister . the previous Conservative Government invest over £ 400 million to support grassroots sport , recognise the vital contribution of sport to our community across the country . the Minister will already be aware of our concern about the impact of Labour ' s national insurance hike , and the impact that the school tax will have on community access to sporting facility . equally concern be Labour ' s decision to quietly cut the £ 57 million opening school facility programme from March . do she understand why grassroots sport organisation be so concerned about access to school facility , and school potentially have to close they to the community ? have she raise those concern with Cabinet colleague , and what measure be her Department take to support access to grassroots sport for the more than 200 , 000 people who previously benefit from conservative programme ? I think that be six question rather than one . I will take no lecture from the hon . gentleman on the state of the economy and the inheritance that we receive . the Government be a huge champion of grassroots sport , and will continue to be one . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . sport and physical activity must play a big part in the debate on our nation ' s collective health and the future of health service . Sport England report that almost one in three child be class as inactive . More than a third of adult do not meet the chief medical officer ' s recommendation for physical activity . sedentary lifestyle be associate with one in six death , and obesity cost the economy £ 58 billion per year . those be truly shocking statistic that we should all be ashamed of . what conversation be Ministers in the Department have with colleague in other Departments , most notably Health , to ensure an increase focus on physical activity to improve our nation ' s physical and mental health ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for that important question . through our health mission , and the health mission board , we work really closely across Government . this be a pivotal issue . sport play a huge part in get people more active . I know that from my own area : over 30 % of people in Barnsley be inactive . just yesterday , I meet with the Richmond group of charity , which work on this sort of issue , and I continue to have both Government meeting and meeting with stakeholder . we really want to make progress in this area . Public Trust in News source what step her Department have take to support public trust in reliable source of news and information . the Government take reliable source of news very seriously . I have already start initial discussion with the BBC about the charter review and the future of the licence fee . we be also work closely with local medium on a local medium strategy . we see the importance of local news over the summer in tackle disinformation during the riot and civil unrest . we be determined to provide a level playing field for local and regional newspaper to ensure that they can continue to thrive . in the past few week , we have see the spread of disinformation use online platform and the proliferation of misinformation on an industrial scale . attempt to destabilise the government and throw off public discourse do not have Britain ' s good interest at heart . I have be contact by multiple constituent in Stratford and Bow who , like I , be deeply concerned about the unchecked ability of foreign billionaire to impact british democracy and news . as a member of the Foreign Affairs Committee , I have hear witness talk about the impact of this globally . what assurance can the Minister provide my constituent that the Government be take the threat of foreign disinformation seriously ? that be precisely one of the reason why my right hon . friend the Foreign Secretary provide an uplift to the BBC World Service this year . my hon . friend mention foreign billionaire . unlike the Conservatives , we have no intention of conduct government by social medium . while they amplify the noise and conspiracy theory , we be crack on with deliver for people in the real world where most of we spend our time . topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . Secretary of State ? we be move very fast — it be almost like you have do this before , Mr Speaker . we be waste no time in stand up for people and fight their corner . we be take on the ticket tout , work with the Creative Industries Independent Standards Authority to tackle harassment in the creative industry and work with jewish leader to tackle antisemitism in the art . we will take every action necessary to progress the Football Governance Bill through the House of Lords and to deliver for football fan . we have launch the AI copyright consultation and convene the Creative Industries Council under its new chair Baroness Shriti Vadera . tomorrow I will be in the great town of Gateshead to host the first creative growth summit to bring good job and growth to every part of the United Kingdom . Gables , an animal rescue charity in my constituency that I meet before Christmas , and the Devon Mental Health Alliance have share the negative impact the increase to employer ' national insurance contribution will have on their service delivery . for Gables , it be a £ 22 , 000 increase to its cost . for DMHA , it decrease the amount of service it can provide , which be need to ease local nhs pressure . what hope can the Secretary of State offer they for the future ? I reassure the hon . member that the Government work closely with the charity sector . only a few month ago , the Prime Minister throw open the door of Downing Street to launch a new covenant with civil society to work hand in hand with they on the share challenge we face . we be aware of the impact of the change on charity . that be why we have more than double the employment allowance from £ 5 , 000 to £ 10 , 500 to protect the small charity , and we publish an impact assessment alongside the autumn Budget process that set out the impact on charity . we will continue to work closely with charity to support they . the national youth strategy be a crucial step forward , and I welcome its progress . will the Secretary of State outline how new youth programme , such as the well youth space initiative , will help to rebuild facility in Southampton Itchen , where year of conservative cut have impact opportunity for our young people ? we fully acknowledge the challenge face by the sector and the challenging need of young people . the strategy will help we move forward from a one - size - fit - all approach from central Government , bring power back to young people and their community and rebuild a thriving and sustainable youth sector . I call the shadow Secretary of State . January be traditionally a time when people commit to exercise more , and it be the perfect opportunity to encourage a more active nation — go on then ! Bingo ! I know he would do that . I be proud that in government we have a sport strategy and set up the national physical activity taskforce , which bring together Departments , delivery partner and industry to work to increase activity rate . may I ask the Secretary of State when the taskforce last meet , whether it discuss the impact of the job tax on the sector ' s ability to get more people active , and what alternative measure there will be for the school holiday when facility will no long be open ? the shadow Secretary of State will know that we have regular meeting with representative from sporting body and industry . we be determined to roll out grassroots sport to every part of the UK , and we have already signal our intention as a new Government on that . when I return from the Euros , we announce a whole tranche of funding for the come year to ensure that those incredible grassroots sport facility that support not just young man , but young woman across the country continue . I would be happy to discuss this far with he to ensure — order . please , this be topical question , and we have six minute before I have to hand over . the murder of Jimmy Mizen sadly stick in the mind of many of we . an investigation by the Sun have reveal that his killer , Jake Farhi , be the mask rapper who have shockingly be promote by the BBC despite his lyric sickeningly boast about kill and other crime . will the Secretary of State join I in call for an investigation into how the BBC allow this to happen ? I can not imagine the pain and upset that it be cause Jimmy ' s family . I add my voice to the support for Jimmy ' s family . the shadow Secretary of State raise that matter in a particularly sensitive way , and I would be happy to consider it with he . will the Minister join I in congratulate local volunteer who be fundraise for a new roof for the grade I list St Bartholomew ' s church in my constituency , and will he meet I to discuss the future of the list place of worship grant scheme , which be so important for they to hit their fundraising target ? yes , I congratulate the church . I know that lot of people be interested in the future of the fund . the good way of describe how the Department be approach that be to quote a hymn : " God be work this purpose out , as year succeed to year … Nearer and nearer draw the time , the time that shall surely be " when we announce . the last Conservative Government leave music education in a dire state . in Bath , the Orchestra of Everything Foundation be work against that tide with great success as 70 % of the child it reach take up a second instrument . what will the Government do to improve music education ? that will definitely be part of my 12 - point plan for music . the hon . Lady be absolutely right : music education be a vital part of ensure that every child in this country have a decent chance to prosper in life . this week , the great fight between Conor Benn and Chris Eubank Jr be announce . that be the good fight in british boxing and will showcase what a fantastic sport it be in the UK . will the Secretary of State join I in wish both fighter the good of luck and in showcase that brilliant fight across the world ? I absolutely add my voice to that . certain sport in the UK , include boxing , dart and snooker , have be under - represent in term of government attention . we be determined for that to change because we know how much joy they bring to million of people . plan for a Universal Studios theme park in Bedfordshire be a huge opportunity to drive economic growth and private sector investment . what progress be be make , and when do the Government expect discussion with Universal Studios to conclude ? the hon . Gentleman know , because we have have several discussion about it , that I can not enter into the precise detail of the negotiation , but they be go well , and I be hopeful that this will be absolutely transformational for the british tourism industry if we manage to pull it off . I be sure that he will urge everybody to co - operate with the Government in that process . member of the school council of Bromstone primary school in Broadstairs visit Parliament yesterday and want I to convey in the strong term to the Secretary of State the importance of learn art , not only because they love it but for the skill they learn from it . be she do all in her power to ensure that creativity will have a prominent and central place in the curriculum ? may I reassure my hon . friend ' s young constituent that we absolutely agree with they ? we know that music , sport and art not only enrich young people ' s life , but can unlock so much more . we will take their view seriously . in Grimsby , we be fortunate enough to have a new youth zone under construction , which be good news for many of my constituent , but those in the rural part of the constituency face challenge in access it . how do the Government plan to help young people in rural area access sport and leisure facility ? I be delighted to host representative from Grimsby in Wigan to show they our amazing onside youth facility . I be delighted that the Grimsby facility be now move ahead at pace , but I share his concern about people from surround area , particularly in relation to transport . some of the youth funding that we have allocate for next year will address precisely those issue so that exist youth facility can buy minibus , for example , to ensure access for all young people . the BBC have a responsibility to share content that licence fee payer can trust , yet the Asserson report find widespread evidence of bias in the BBC ' s reporting of the Israel - Hamas war , which , from what I can see , continue . what representation have be make to the BBC and Ofcom to ensure that impartiality be uphold in all area ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this issue . when I meet representative from the jewish community recently about antisemitism in the art , I be shock and horrify by some of their experience , and we be work closely with they to tackle it . I can confirm to my hon . friend that I have raise this issue directly with the BBC director general . I be aware that the BBC get criticism from all side about its reporting and have a difficult balance to strike , but we be determined to work with the BBC and support it to get that right . tourism be very important to Burnham - on - Sea , Berrow and Brean in my constituency . will the Secretary of State reassure business owner in those town and village that her Government have no plan to introduce a tourism tax ? we have no plan to introduce additional taxis . I want to get 50 million international visitor come to the UK , because our tourism industry be an important part of what we do well in this country . that be why I will be host the first visitor economy advisory council on Monday morning . a tourism levy in York could raise £ 125 , 000 through a voluntary scheme , but if there be a comprehensive scheme , £ 1 . 7 million could go to my local community . will the Minister not consider such a scheme so that we can raise that revenue for York ? attack on both side in different way — pushmi - pullyu , I think it be — but my hon . friend make a good point . there be of course provision for local mayor and local authority to be able to introduce similar measure on a voluntary basis , as have already happen in Manchester . I think we in this House can all agree that the premier league be the world ' s most successful league . it have grow up under self - regulation , but there be now proposal to regulate it . the premier league transmit soft power across the world and raise huge amount of revenue for the Government . give the damage that the Financial Services and Markets Act have do to the London stock exchange and other market , will the Government take responsibility if football decline after they introduce football regulation ? football be an ecosystem , and we work very closely with the Premier League . as a crown jewel of british export , it bring joy to million of people all over the world , but the fact be that far too many football club be currently unsustainable , suffer from poor ownership and poor financial flow . the Football Governance Bill be in our manifesto and those of opposition party , and we will not be block by unelected peer from enact what be a manifesto commitment and make good on that promise for football fan . Kirkcaldy Community Football Partnership do an amazing job in my constituency , support a number of local football club include Kirkcaldy and Dysart football club and Templehall United . it also run an over - 35 walk football team , which be of particular interest to I . it badly need funding for a new synthetic all - weather pitch ; do the Minister agree that this be an important cause , and one that deserve support ? I be grateful to my hon . friend . the issue she have raise be incredibly important , and I suggest that she reach out to the Football Foundation . I would be happy to set up that meeting for she . Church Commissioners the hon . member for Battersea , represent the Church Commissioners , be ask — list place of Worship Grant Scheme what assessment the Commissioners have make of the effectiveness of the list place of worship grant scheme . what assessment the Commissioners have make of the effectiveness of the list place of worship grant scheme . what assessment the Commissioners have make of the effectiveness of the list place of worship grant scheme . what assessment the Commissioners have make of the effectiveness of the list place of worship grant scheme . what discussion the Commissioners have have on the continuation of vat relief under the list place of worship grant scheme . the list place of worship grant scheme provide support to religious community with list building by refund the cost of vat on repair . the Church Commissioners view this scheme as an effective way to deliver transformational benefit to local community , enable restoration , repair and improve access . I welcome the support show for the scheme by hon . member across the House . the list place of worship grant scheme be essential to renovation and improvement be make by St Michael on Greenhill church in my constituency . can the Second Church Estates Commissioner give any assurance to I and my constituent across Lichfield , Burntwood and the village that this grant and Government support will be available to support excellent project such as the creation of a new community hub ? I congratulate my hon . friend on raise this issue . it be so important to ensure that our local church be support and that church such as St Michael ' s in his constituency can deliver the repair they need so that they can continue to be a benefit to their community . the National Churches Trust recently find that for every £ 1 of investment £ 16 be return to the local community in the form of event facility , warm space , food bank and so much more . he will not be surprised to learn that I have raise the issue of the list place of worship scheme with my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport , and I really hope that the Government be listen and will want to continue with this vital and essential scheme . the construction of St Michael ' s church in Linlithgow begin in 1424 , and it be a significant centre of worship in the newly form parish of Linlithgow and Avon Valley . as a category a list site , it have benefit greatly from the list place of worship grant scheme over the year . can my hon . friend advise what engagement the commissioner have have with representative of church in Scotland on the importance and effectiveness of the scheme ? I know that St Michael ' s church in Linlithgow in my hon . friend ' s constituency be a beautiful medieval church with strong community link and engagement . although I be accountable only for the Church of England , I reassure she that the Church be work closely with its partner in Scotland , as they too want clarity on the future of this vital scheme . I would be happy to put she in touch with the head of church building for the Church of Scotland if she so wish . St Ives church in Leadgate in my constituency be know as the miner ' cathedral . the building be full of heritage , but costly maintenance issue be threaten its very survival . the church have secure grant to fund temporary fix , but a long - term solution be desperately need . it tell I that reclaim tax can make all the difference , so will my hon . friend reassure I that scheme like that will continue to help church such as St Ives ? I thank my hon . friend for her question . I know that St Ives church be a cornerstone of that community , and I congratulate the congregation on the funding they have raise to stabilise some of the church ' s structure . grant from the building for mission fund be available from the diocese and may help with some of the future work . however , we all know the importance of the list place of worship scheme , and I will continue to raise it with the Secretary of State . I hope that the Government be listen and will come forward , as the scheme be due to end in March , and we certainly do not want that to happen . over the past two year alone , Newport cathedral have reclaim over £ 87 , 000 under the list place of worship scheme . when it soon become necessary to repair the tower , at an estimate cost of £ 1 . 1 million , a furth £ 220 , 000 in tax will be add to that bill , and if that can not be reclaim the project will be delay even far . the cathedral provide crucial support to school , charity , refugee and the homeless . do my hon . friend recognise the importance of the scheme not only in save significant heritage treasure , but in preserve those vital service ? I absolutely recognise the importance of the scheme and the difference that the cathedral ' s social impact project be make in her community . I would be very happy to put my hon . friend in touch with the director of property strategy for the Church in Wales , so that they can discuss this issue and , I hope , lobby together to ensure — to say it once again — that the scheme be renew . the withdrawal of the list place of worship scheme disproportionately affect rural church . in my constituency of Farnham and Bordon , six list church save nearly £ 43 , 000 in the past financial year through the scheme . director of St Andrew ' s in Farnham and of St Bartholomew ' s and St Christopher ' s in Haslemere have raise concern with I this week about the oversubscribed nature of other grant opportunity , such as the National Lottery Heritage Fund , which combine heritage restoration under the same scheme as , for example , coastal protection in the Humber estuary . this dilute the vital church fund need for their heritage . can the hon . Lady inform I how church can be support to preserve heritage in my constituency if the vat relief for repair be not reinstate ? I thank the hon . member for the question . as he will have hear throughout this Question Time , we be keen to ensure that the list place of worship grant scheme continue , because we can see not only the immense benefit it bring to our community , but how it help to alleviate some of the challenge of raise fund . it be important that all our heritage building , include our church , be preserve and that adequate funding be available for they . I would be very happy , if the hon . member wish , to meet he to discuss this far . the scheme be design to address a perverse incentive in the vat rule that favour demolition and rebuild at a time when we be unable to change those rule . Post Brexit , we can now do so . will the Church Commissioners draw that to the attention of those on the Treasury Bench ? yes . will the hon . Lady therefore support my private Member ' s Bill , which be come up in March and be design specifically to exclude repair to list place of worship from the VAT regime ? I will have a look at the hon . member ' s Bill . I , too , want to refer to the land of Calvin , oatcake , and sulphur — Scotland . in a village in my constituency where I use to live , there be a lovely old Church of Scotland church that have be buy by a former Member of this place . it be in bad condition and it be upset local people . can good practice be share north of the border with planning authority and heritage organisation ? I would be most grateful . I will certainly share the hon . member ' s thought , but I be happy to write to he with further detail on other space where he can get more information on how he can support scheme in his constituency . Makin Review what step the Church have take to respond to the recommendation set out in the Makin review , publish on 18 October 2024 . what recent step the Church have take to respond to allegation of child sexual abuse within the Church of England . what step the Church have take to respond to the recommendation set out in the Makin review , publish on 18 October 2024 . the Makin report make clear the devastating abuse suffer by child and young people at the hand of John Smyth . in the meeting I have with representative from the Archbishops ' Council , I raise the need for the Makin review to be a defining and watershed moment for the Church . the review make 27 recommendation , some of which have already be implement . I be await a full and thorough update from the Church on the detailed progress be make on each recommendation . that work be in addition to the ongoing effort to respond to the Wilkinson and Alexis Jay inquiry into child sexual abuse . follow these report , the Church begin develop potential new safeguarding model , which will be decide at the General Synod in February . I pay tribute to my ecclesiastical co - worker , the Right Reverend Helen - Ann Hartley , Bishop of Newcastle , for her leadership and courage in champion the voice of victim in the wake of the Makin review . Newcastle be proud of she . be the Church Commissioners aware of her ongoing concern about the implementation of the review ? in particular , what can they do to ensure that diocese have the resource necessary to implement a high standard of safeguarding and to ensure that the Church be focus on the interest of the victim and the vulnerable , rather than the career interest of lead clergy ? my hon . friend rightly raise the work that her own bishop have be do in her constituency on this issue . follow the Makin review , colleague such as my hon . friend and many represent here today and from across the House have rightly be raise their concern about safeguarding in the Church . this week I meet representative from the Archbishops ' Council , include the Bishop of Stepney , Joanne Grenfell , who be the lead bishop for safeguard in the Church , to raise my concern . the House can rest assure that I do that robustly . the Church ' s national safeguarding team be now at stage three of its four - stage process to assess and deal with the risk pose by those criticise in the Makin review , which be rightly welcome . in addition , the Church institution have develop the two model proposal on safeguarding , which will go to the Synod in February . those independent safeguarding model will look at a scrutiny body and at safeguard operation more independent of the Church . I will be at the Synod in February , and I will listen closely to that debate . make no mistake , the Church have an enormous amount of work to do to create a cultural shift . that be what be require . it need to rebuild trust and confidence . it be also important that everybody in the House feel as though they get the opportunity to raise their concern . I thank my hon . friend and other for ensure that they have raise this issue here today . I would very much like to pay tribute to the Bishop of Newcastle as well . what be so tragic be that so few senior voice be be hear in the Anglican Church . the Makin review name the Bishop of Lincoln and the bishop in charge of the Episcopal Church , but so few people have be hold to account . will the hon . Lady please ensure that more people be properly hold to account and that some of the people who have be name be clear out of those top job ? the right hon . Member make a critical point . it be so important for the Church to view this as the chance to turn a corner and make it a watershed moment . we need change , and those responsible must be hold to account . I would be happy to discuss this matter far with the right hon . member if that would be of help , but he should make no mistake that I strongly believe that it be important that the Church be hold to account . the Bishop of Stepney — the lead bishop for safeguarding — and the director for safeguard both welcome the Makin review when it be first publish last year . we must ensure that its recommendation be implement . the urgent need for independent scrutiny of the Church ' s safeguard procedure be highlight both by the Makin report and by the independent inquiry into child sexual abuse . what be the current arrangement for independent scrutiny of safeguarding follow the dismissal of the Church ' s independent safeguarding board ? what be the timescale for have a permanent system for independent scrutiny in place to safeguard against such appalling act of abuse , as highlight in both those report ? independent scrutiny of the Church ' s safeguard work be extremely important . the Church commission a series of audits on diocese and cathedral by independent safeguarding expert , and several have be complete and publish . the independently chair national safeguarding panel , which include victim and survivor among its member , currently scrutinise safeguarding , but as I have already point out , proposal to strengthen scrutiny in the Church will be vote on at the Synod next month , and the Church will then have to create a plan for implementation once the right model have be approve at that General Synod in February . Hyde Park Estate what step the Church be take to improve the maintenance of the Hyde Park Estate . the Hyde Park estate have be manage by the Church Commissioners for over 150 year , and they be commit to its long - term stewardship . as responsible landlord , the commissioner be commit to adopt good practice and have continuous investment programme for the management of building on the estate to ensure that they remain fit for purpose both now and in the future . I have be work for month with resident of the Quadrangle , the Water Gardens and Connaught Village on the scale of their service charge . they have manage to reduce their service charge by 10 % . will my hon . friend join I in congratulate they on their hard work and agree that they should not have have to work that hard ? will she join I in a meeting with the Church Commissioners to improve the transparency and monitoring of service charge level ? of course I congratulate the resident on their hard work . I know from my constituency about the challenge around increase in service charge ; it be so important that they be transparent to everybody . I would be happy to join my hon . friend in a meeting with her resident on this issue , and I would recommend include those from the Church Commissioners ’ property service team . I hope that will be okay . the Hyde Park estate be an oasis of peace and tranquillity in the middle of the concrete and building and use daily by many . what step will the Church take to ensure that there be sufficient waste disposal and recycle bin across the Hyde Park estate , for those with two leg , and indeed for those with four leg ? I be sure that those manage and maintain the estate be look at all those issue , but I would be happy to write to the hon . gentleman with further information . Electoral Commission Committee the right hon . and learn Member for Kenilworth and Southam , represent the Speaker ' s Committee on the Electoral Commission , be ask — Foreign Donations to UK Political Parties if the Commission will make an assessment of the potential merit of ban foreign donation to UK political party . what recent assessment the Commission have make of the adequacy of the rule on donation by non - UK citizen to political party . when establish the political finance regime , Parliament ' s explicit intention be to ban foreign donation . however , limitation of the current law mean that it be possible for money from foreign source to enter the UK electoral system through donation from UK company . for that reason , the Electoral Commission have call for the law around company donation to be strengthen , to ensure that party can not accept money from company that have not make enough in the UK to fund their donation or loan , to impose a duty to carry out enhance " know your donor " check , and to improve transparency over donation make through unincorporated association . in recent week we have see the unedifye spectacle of opposition party try to curry favour with one particular foreign billionaire . however , this issue be much big than Elon Musk . Transparency International UK estimate that £ 1 in every £ 10 in our system — £ 150 million since 2021 — come from questionable or unknown source . when will these proposal come forward , so that we can debate they in the House and tackle this threat to our democracy ? as the hon . Member will understand , proposal to change the law must come from the Government — with whom , I gently suggest , he have more influence that I do — but he be right that transparency be crucial . it be important that we understand the source of the donation , so that the political party that accept they can be properly hold to account . surely , even in these febrile time , it should not be difficult to build a consensus around the proposition that foreign money should not be in british politic . can we not get the party together now to make the strong possible package of reform , rather than react when it be too late ? as I mention , there be a consensus in this House that foreign donation should not play a part in british politic , but there be gap in the law . as I mention , the Electoral Commission believe that those gap can be properly close through further legislation . it be speak to the Government about that , and I know that it would be happy discuss the matter far with the right hon . Gentleman , if he so wish . Church Commissioners the hon . member for Battersea , represent the Church Commissioners , be ask — Church of England : racial Injustice what step the Church be take to tackle racial injustice . in 2020 the House of Bishops create the archbishop ' anti - racism taskforce , follow by the archbishop ' commission for racial justice , to continue the work of tackle racial injustice in the Church and society . last February , the General Synod vote unanimously to continue effort to address racial injustice across the Church . the Church ' s work to recognise the importance of diversity and on proactive anti - racism be very welcome , but what step be it take to address its historical link to the slave trade ? the Church ' s role in slavery be truly shameful . it be only right that it take action to recognise its link to the transatlantic enslavement of Africans . no amount of money would ever be enough to repair the horror of the slave trade , but the Church Commissioners ' project will set aside £ 100 million over nine year for a programme of impact , investment , research and engagement . it be hope that this fund will continue to grow over time and will reinvest return . investment in grant funding will be direct towards community that have be impact by the enslavement of Africans . business of the House will the Leader of the House give we the forthcoming business ? the business for the week commence 20 January include : Monday 20 January — general debate on the impact of food and diet on obesity , follow by a general debate on financial education . the subject for these debate be determine by the Backbench Business Committee . Tuesday 21 January — remain stage of the Armed Forces Commissioner Bill , follow by a motion to approve the draft Deposit Scheme for Drinks Containers ( England and Northern Ireland ) Regulations 2024 . Wednesday 22 January — motion to agree a money resolution relate to the Terminally Ill adult ( end of Life ) Bill , follow by Second Reading of the Bank Resolution ( Recapitalisation ) Bill [ Lords ] . Thursday 23 January — general debate on Holocaust Memorial Day . Friday 24 January — private member ' Bills . the provisional business for the week commence 27 January will include : Monday 27 January — general debate on the creative industry . Tuesday 28 January — remain stage of the Water ( Special Measures ) Bill [ Lords ] . Wednesday 29 January — second reading of the Arbitration Bill . Thursday 30 January — business to be determine by the Backbench Business Committee . Friday 31 January — the House will not be sit . for the convenience of the House , and in view of the three important statement that be take place today , the motion on the draft Deposit Scheme for Drinks Containers ( England and Northern Ireland ) Regulations 2024 will not be move today . I be sure that the Leader of the House and every Member will join I in welcome the news overnight of a ceasefire in Gaza . let we hope and pray that it be as effective , comprehensive and long - last as possible . back at home , all one can say be that it have be another extraordinary week for the Government , though possibly not in the way that they would have want . we have have the Government ' s anti - corruption Minister herself be name for corruption by another country in the face of an international investigation into embezzlement of development and other fund . we have have the unusually unlovely sight of the Chancellor of the Exchequer in a desperate search for growth that have take she to Beijing and back — though with precious little result , it seem . the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales say this week that stagflation — that toxic combination of recession and inflation — be now " a live risk " . even the very , very modest gdp growth report for November be below expectation . at some point , the Government ' s current spending splurge will doubtless start to nudge growth upwards over the come year , but in the meantime we will have to look forward to the grim prospect of the national insurance change in April and the horror of the Employment Rights Bill , which even by the Government ' s own estimate will cost employer an extra £ 5 billion a year . so dire have the Chancellor ' s position become that she have be force to ask Cabinet colleague for idea of growth . give the galaxy of business talent around the Cabinet table , how can that possibly go wrong ? meanwhile , the Prime Minister have be force not only to express " full confidence " in the Chancellor — always a death knell — but to insist that she will remain in post for the full period of this Government . let we see how that work out . it have be extraordinary , in particular , to see she attack by her own colleague , who have say : " we ' re go back to austerity in all but name . " luckily , the Government be able to announce some good news in the form of the late result of the national wealth fund , which have apparently generate more than 6 , 000 job and £ 1 . 6 billion in private investment over the last six month — except that the announcement be , I be afraid , entirely disingenuous . as Lord Livermore say in a debate in the other House in October , the national wealth fund be , in fact , the UK Infrastructure Bank with a new name and a bit more capital . I know something about the UK Infrastructure Bank , because I set it up in 2021 when I be Financial Secretary to the Treasury . it have an absolutely world - class leadership team and I be not remotely surprised to see it do so well . but the idea that its recent success be attributable to a Labour Government who have do little more than rebrand it be an embarrassing joke . its success have be power by good institutional design , a top team , tonne of talented employee and more than four year of hard work . one recall the Government ' s attempt to claim credit for £ 63 billion of international cash in the October investment summit . I know the Leader of the House be a strong believer in transparency and accountability , so will she have the Treasury update the House on what form that investment have take , how much of it have be receive and where it be be spend ? frankly , it be more than doubtful that three month of post - election chaos in the Government have any such effect in boost investment , but we will see when the Government publish the number , as I be sure they will . if it turn out like the so - call national wealth fund , we will know that the Labour Government be more than happy to take credit for at least some of the work of the previous Government , provide that they can put their own name on it . I , too , be sure that the whole House will welcome the development between Israel and Gaza over the past hour and day , with a long - overdue ceasefire and the release of hostage now look like a real possibility , although that be still to be confirm . this will hopefully now lead to much - need aid get in , usb the end of the killing , the hostage be release , and , I hope , what will be the beginning of a long - term political solution for the region . we will hear shortly from the Foreign Secretary with further detail on that . first , I will explain one of the piece of business I have just announce , and set out why the Government will table a money resolution relate to the Terminally Ill adult ( end of Life ) Bill next week . in order for a Bill Committee to consider any clause that could have spending implication , the Government must first table a money resolution . that be not the Government agree to fund the measure in a bill ; it be purely to enable the Bill to be debate in Committee . in the case of this Bill , this relate to one small component that be yet to be debate and agree . without the motion be agree to , that debate could not happen and that component could not remain in the Bill . the Government have take the view that that would act against our commitment to remain neutral on the Bill . the House should debate and decide on these matter for itself . I hope that , as with Second reading , colleague will focus on the substance and not the process of this sensitive private Member ' s Bill . it really have be quite incredible to watch the collective display of amnesia on the conservative Benches over recent week — it be like the past 14 year do not happen . I see that the Leader of the Opposition be out today in what have be brief as she finally tell the truth about the Conservatives ' record : they do not have a plan for growth , they be not honest with the british people , and they negotiate a bad Brexit deal . however , it sound like the right hon . member for Hereford and South Herefordshire ( Jesse Norman ) do not quite get that memo . it sound like the right hon . Gentleman do not get the memo about the conservative need to be honest about their record on standard either . if he want to compare the previous Government ' s record on lose Ministers , I be quite happy to do so . Boris Johnson have 36 of his own Ministers resign in 24 hour — the high number on modern record . even the very nice right hon . member for Richmond and Northallerton ( Rishi Sunak ) lose four of his senior Ministers in his first few month , include his party chairman and Deputy Prime Minister , for break the ministerial code . even when there be investigation on Ministers , they be often ignore . this Government have strengthen the ministerial code and now have an adviser who be able to initiate investigation . we have bring in new rule for member of Parliament on outside interest , and we will go far . the right hon . Gentleman obviously do not get the memo on the Conservatives ' record on the economy , and be instead try to attack our plan . the Leader of the Opposition , his party leader , be now tell the country that they do not have a plan for growth . that be the truth of the situation , isn ' t it ? the Conservatives have 14 year to do something about the fundamental weakness in our economy , and they do nothing . in fact , they make those weakness even bad : stagnant growth , low productivity , low wage , low skill , high mortgage , high debt , poor health , poor housing , woeful transport , deep - seat inequality , and no ambition under the previous Government to gain the job of the future . we be begin to tackle those deep - root weakness , and that be the truth that he and his party leader should be tell the country . community organisation be the backbone of many event in town and village across North West Leicestershire . for the past 10 year , the Rotary Club of Ashby de la Zouch Castle have organise our annual charity Santa fun run in Ashby , which I have have the pleasure of take part in alongside hundred of local people . last week , the club present cheque to LOROS hospice , rainbow hospice for child and young people , and Staunton Harold Sailability Trust . it be great to hear that the fun run have now raise over £ 100 , 000 for local charity that support resident in need . will the Leader of the House join I in thank the volunteer for their commitment to support our community , and could the House be grant an opportunity to discuss what further support could be provide to volunteer to ensure that they continue to thrive ? I will certainly join my hon . friend in thank the volunteer in her constituency for what sound like fantastic local fundraising activity . I think she be go to ask I to go on a fun run — to which the answer be go to be no — but otherwise I welcome her question . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . on the liberal Democrat Benches , we have be delight by the recent groundswell of support from across the House for Liberal Democrat policy . in particular , I cite : the support for our Youth Mobility Scheme ( EU Countries ) Bill ; the warm response for the sunshine Bill — the New Homes ( Solar Generation ) Bill — from my hon . friend the Member for Cheltenham ( Max Wilkinson ) , which be come tomorrow ; and the House endorse a fairer voting system . will the Government answer this clear yearning by member across the House for Liberal Democrat policy and provide parliamentary time to ensure those bill become law ? I notice that this week there be further public support for the Liberal Democrats : I understand that 90 % of respondent to a review of their general election campaign think their party leader ' s eye - catch campaign style be very effective . I concur , so here ' s to even more bungee jumping and paddle boarding , but perhaps less of the tight wetsuit — I ' m not sure I really want to see those ! I be pleased that we be able to support a number of the measure come forward from the hon . Lady ' s colleague . I look forward to continue to work constructively across the House with Liberal Democrats . as the junction 28 parliamentary champion , I report that resident across Bolsover be really frustrate by congestion . can we have a Government statement on what we be do to tackle congestion across Bolsover ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to raise the issue of congestion in Bolsover , and I congratulate she on do so today . she will know that this be one of a number of issue the Government be seek to tackle through their transport and road strategy . will the Leader of the House please ask the Secretary of State for Transport to come urgently to the House and give a statement on the destruction of tree and vegetation along the Liberty line , which run from Romford to Emerson Park in my constituency ? there have be an extreme lack of accountability and communication from Network Rail . it have not consult local resident or elect representative , despite promise to do so in 2022 when a similar incident occur . this be devastating for the local environment and wildlife . cut down healthy tree be wrong and Network Rail need to be hold to account for its action . I be sure that many colleague across the House recognise that the felling of healthy tree cause a great deal of local interest from constituent , wherever it occur , so the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right to raise it . I be not aware of the particular case he raise , but I will ensure he get a ministerial response . Gary , a constituent of mine who live in Thrapston , have his drive licence suspend for six month due to a medical condition . during that time , his employer support he get to and from work , but shortly before his licence be due to be renew it be , once again due to his medical condition , suspend for a further six month . in the light of that and in order to continue to work , Gary apply for support from the access to work grant scheme . follow his application , Gary be advise that there be a 30 - week wait before his application would be deal with . do the Minister agree that the Government have prioritise support people who wish to continue to work whenever they can , and that delay in grant application like this be totally unacceptable and could lead to people lose their job ? can we get Gary ' s case look into as soon as possible ? it be completely unacceptable for people to have to wait as long as that . this Government be commit to significantly reduce the waiting time for access to work and other programme , and I will ensure that a Minister look into Gary ' s case and it be resolve as soon as possible . I call the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee . I thank the Leader of the House for allow protect time for this afternoon ' s Backbench Business debate , and also for allow time next week for the annual Holocaust Memorial Day debate . in addition to the business that she announce for Monday , there will be two Select Committee statement on behalf of the Treasury Committee and another on behalf of the Defence Committee . those Committee statement be important , so I trust that the Government will try not to schedule too many government statement that would squeeze the time available . we always like to satisfy colleague , and on Thursday 30 January there will be a debate on proportional representation for general election . in Westminster Hall , next Tuesday there will be a debate on the provision of auditory verbal therapy , next Thursday there will be a debate on the United Nations International Day of Education follow by a debate on innovation in the field of rare retinal disease , on Tuesday 28 January there will be a debate on road safety for young driver , and on Thursday 30 January there will be a debate on medicinal cannabis . in addition , may I point out that the Palestine Solidarity Campaign have organise hate marche across London over many month since 7 October ? the Metropolitan police have finally decide that it be unacceptable for the campaigner to form up at midday 100 yard from a synagogue where jewish people be threaten when leave or join the Shabbat service , and have insist that the route of the marche must not go near any synagogue . however , the campaigner have say that they will defy the police and form up outside the synagogue again . may we have a statement from the Home Secretary reinforce the view that if that happen , those individual should face the full force of the law and the cost of police the demonstration to ensure that public order be protect ? let I first thank the hon . gentleman for list a number of future debate . I be pleased that , after he have raise the matter with I in during business question last week , I be able to protect time for this afternoon ' s debate , and that we be able to find Government time for a proper debate on Holocaust Memorial Day next week . as ever , I thank he for his continue work as a very diligent and good Chair of the Backbench Business Committee . as for the other issue , the hon . Gentleman will know that decision about the policing of protest and demonstration be a matter for the police — they be operational matter — but he be right to say that public safety should be at the fore , along with ensure that no one be subject to antisemitism or any other kind of hate as a result of any demonstration . may I pick up some comment that be make a little early ? many of my constituent have write to I express their concern about campaign finance law follow medium report that a certain foreign billionaire will be provide very large donation . will the Government introduce legislation to cap individual donation , close exist loophole and enhance the power of the Electoral Commission ? my hon . friend be right : foreign money and foreign donation have no place in UK politic and be prohibit under current law , but the exist legislation may need to be tighten . as he will know , we have a manifesto commitment to look at donation to political party , and we will be introduce a Bill on election , probably in the next session . yesterday , along with many other member , I attend an oversubscribed debate in Westminster Hall lead by the right hon . member for South Holland and the Deepings ( Sir John Hayes ) on compensation for WASPI woman . it be clear there be no consensus on the Government side in relation to the outcome of the Government ' s decision . give that the parliamentary and Health Service Ombudsman send the report to Parliament for Parliament to decide , when will the Government provide time for a debate and a vote ? I thank the hon . member for that question . as she say , a debate do take place yesterday , and there be many mechanism for debate to be bring forward in the Chamber or Westminster Hall . I know it be of great disappointment to people that the Government have take this decision , which be quite a specific one about that report . many woman be communicate with over that time , and an apology be issue , but we do not feel that the compensation be propose be proportionate or would be a fair use of public fund at this time . we have a housing crisis across the UK , and I be pleased that the Government have announce a plan to build 1 . 5 million more home . do the Leader of the House agree that council have an important part to play in fix this crisis by update their local plan and deliver the home that be so desperately need , include social housing and affordable home ? without these plan , our green - belt space be at risk , such as Whyburn Farm in my constituency , which Ashfield Independents on the district council be fail to protect by have no plan . do she agree that it be vital that council use their local plan to meet the need of community , while also protect our green - belt space ? my hon . friend be absolutely right : this country face a housing crisis . that be why this Government have an incredibly ambitious target to build 1 . 5 million home over the course of this Parliament , and we be change the national planning policy framework to ensure that local council have ambitious target for their own local area in order to meet that target . in the 2024 new year ' s honours list , Stuart Hogg be award an mbe . since then he have be charge , convict and sentence for domestic abuse . do the Leader of the House and Lord President of the Council agree that he should be strip of that state honour ? I thank the hon . member for raise this important matter , which I know be of great concern to he and to many other member across the House . let we be clear that domestic abuse be abhorrent , we condemn it , and it should not be , or be see to be , reward by any of we . it be completely understandable and appropriate that he and other raise question about whether this honour should continue . he will know that I can not comment on individual honour . however , recommendation to remove honour be consider by the Forfeiture Committee , which he might want to raise this with . I be deeply concerned about a local decision by our hospital trust to cut the bus route between Burnley general teaching hospital urgent care centre and Royal Blackburn teaching hospital , which be a huge loss to staff and patient . will the Leader of the House join I in call on transport operator , the county council , East Lancashire hospital NHS trust , blackburn with Darwen borough council and other to get round the table and find a solution to save our shuttle bus and keep this vital service run ? shuttle bus such as the one my hon . friend describe in his constituency — especially those that go to hospital and other local service — be vital . for too long , local area and community have not have a say in the bus route they need in their area . that be why we have bring forward the Bus Services Bill , which be make its way through the other House and will ensure that his constituent have more of a say over the bus route in their area . as I be sure you know , Mr Speaker , my constituency be the source of a number of globally significant chalk stream , not least and most famously the River Test . a number of Members be press the previous Government to bring forward a chalk stream recovery pack , to help get those river back to their good state of health , so you can imagine our disappointment when we learn in the medium before Christmas that this pack be be abandon , as be subsequently confirm in a ministerial statement . could we have a statement urgently from the Secretary of State about what he will do to replace that pack and bring these river back to the state of health they should be in ? we have to help Sir Charles Walker ' s fish — come on , Leader of the House . I pride myself on know lot of thing about what the Government be do , but I have to admit that this be not something I be aware of or can offer the right hon . Gentleman any particular advice on right now . however , I assure he that I will raise it today with the Minister and ensure that he get a full response . if that be not sufficient , I will ensure that the Minister come to the House . back in September , I hand - deliver a letter to the Home Office regard critical concern about our asylum hotel and about so many vulnerable family be put in such a deprived area . I have a hold response in October , as do my council , but can the Leader of the House secure I a meeting with Home Office official to discuss this vital issue ? my hon . friend consistently raise the issue of asylum hotel in his constituency , and I be really sorry to hear that he have not yet have a response from the relevant Minister . I will ensure that he get a response and the meeting he have ask for . my question be about a rather disturbing matter , and it regard the late issue of the House magazine . on page 14 , there be an article entitle , " State of the union " . there be depiction of the United Kingdom , and each country have its flag . the flag over Northern Ireland , contrary to what the rest of the world know it to be , be the flag of the Republic of Ireland , as oppose to the Union flag or the Ulster banner . this be absolutely outrageous and must be correct in a suitably clear manner . the flag of our nation — my nation — be precious . when I look at the red of the St Patrick ' s cross in the background of that flag , I think of the blood of those whose life be give in the defence of Northern Ireland and this great nation . when I see the publication ' s mistake , it grieve I to see how we be regard by so many . I wish to make it clear that we do not live under the flag of the Republic of Ireland , despite the view of those who do not take their seat here . however , it seem that their influence be great than that of those in this Chamber . the flag of Northern Ireland be the Ulster banner or the Union flag , and it mean something to many people . we can not allow this disgraceful incident to pass . I ask the Leader of the House and you , Mr Speaker , to ensure that there be a correction . perhaps the staff at the House also need to be educate about the basic of the state of the Union , include its geography ; they need to understand the wee simple thing , give that it purport to be a political magazine that be focus on the business of this House . will the Leader of the House show her displeasure with the erroneous depiction ? may I ask she to ensure that a correction be make immediately , and that geographic training for staff at the House magazine will take place ? I absolutely share the hon . Gentleman ' s displeasure , and I thank he for raise this matter today . it be a very disturbing mistake for the House to have make . he will be aware that I be not responsible for the magazine , but I hope that the editor and the editorial board be watch this exchange and can offer the hon . Gentleman a full explanation and a full apology . they need to put this situation right with immediate effect . give that I have be bring into this matter , I reassure the hon . Gentleman that the House be not a publication of the House , but it do trade on the House ' s name and use the House ' s coat of arm . there be question to be ask , and the hon . Gentleman have raise a very important question . the Leader of the House and I will look at what we can do and what should happen next . right across my constituency , there be plenty of support for this Government ' s ambition to do far well when it come to transition to clean , green renewable energy . however , there be also a lot of frustration when my constituent see new house go up , because we be not make use of rooftop and make sure that home have the high energy efficiency standard . can we have a statement from the Housing Minister about how we can make sure that we be far more ambitious than the last government in the requirement on developer ? my hon . friend raise a really important point . solar panel on new home will be a vital component in meet our clean energy superpower ambition . he will be aware that the previous Government actually pull back from include solar panel in the new building regulation . have they do so , we would already have a much high level of solar energy come into the grid . we be already put that right . post office provide vital service in our rural community , such as banking . in my Thornbury and Yate constituency , however , there be concern about the future of the post office in Tytherington community shop , follow the announcement that its partner post office in Cromhall will close at the end of February . will the Leader of the House agree to give we a debate in Government time on how we can support community post office in the future ? the issue of community post office regularly come up in these session , and I know it be a matter of considerable importance to the House . it would make for a good Backbench Business debate , and I see that the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee be still in his place . the hon . member for Thornbury and Yate ( Claire Young ) be right to raise these issue . I know that colleague be concern about plan to close all the current Crown post office , too . she should know that no decision have be make on that , and I would encourage colleague to raise the matter very strongly in the House , with Ministers and , indeed , with the Post Office itself . sadly , many place across England have be impact by flood in recent day . the ground floor of Meadow Mill in my constituency be flood on new year ' s eve , which mean that resident in 213 apartment be not only strand but leave without water , electricity or heating . I thank all the emergency service worker and Stockport council staff for support the resident . can we have a debate in Government time on the impact of flooding on insurance premium and service charge cost for apartment block resident ? as a near constituency neighbour of my hon . friend , I be well aware of Meadow Mill and all the trauma and difficulty suffer by resident during the recent flooding . many other colleague ' constituency be affect , too . this Government inherit really poor flood defence system , which be why we have put in place a flood resilience taskforce . my hon . friend be right to highlight insurance cost and other issue , and I will ensure that the House be keep constantly update on flooding and its impact . could the Leader of the House use her great influence to improve the tone and quality of ministerial response in this place ? on Monday , the Secretary of State for Science , Innovation and Technology respond to the question I ask on behalf of the creative industry , which be very worried about the Government ' s consultation on artificial intelligence and copyright , by tell I that I do not " understand the idea of a consultation . " — [ Official Report , 13 January 2025 ; Vol . 760 , c . 55 . ] I hate to admit it , but I be long enough in the tooth to say that I genuinely do understand what a consultation be and how to recognise one that do not appear to be genuine and that have a foregone conclusion . the point be that we need to be able to articulate question on behalf of our constituent and on behalf of sector that contribute so much to the UK economy , and receive a response that have dignity and respect at its heart . I be sure the Leader of the House agree that this place should be no place for mansplaining . I thank the hon . Lady for all the brilliant work she do on behalf of our creative industry as Chair of the Culture , Media and Sport Committee . I know that AI and copyright be to the fore among the issue about which the creative industry be concerned . I be happy to apologise on behalf of any Minister who may have inadvertently not use the appropriate tone . I know that the Secretary of State for Science , Innovation and Technology respect the hon . Lady greatly , and I be sure he do not mean to cause any offence . I be sure it be mean humorously , which be obviously not how it have be take . I will ensure that the hon . Lady ' s comment be pass back . seemingly unending roadwork in Rossendale and Darwen be cause massive disruption to resident and business . lane rental scheme , in which company be charge for the time that their work occupy the road , can be a game changer , yet highway authority such as Lancashire seem to be unwilling to use the power available to they . will the Leader of the House agree to a debate in Government time on how we can get the action that we need to free up our road ? I think we can all identify with the plight of constituent who be experience unnecessary and badly co - ordinate roadwork , and all the congestion and disruption they cause . the Government want to see more local authority introduce lane rental scheme , and I will ensure that the relevant Minister support my hon . friend ' s call for such a scheme in his constituency . last week , I meet representative of the Environment Agency at Knaresborough lido , which be grant bathing water status last year thank to the hard work of local campaigner and the former MP , Andrew Jones . the Environment Agency have say that , unlike other river with sewage and pollution issue , which be usually due to adverse weather event and heavy rain , the issue on the River Nidd look to be continuous , regardless of the weather . it be particularly bad during dry spell , which lead the Environment Agency to believe that it be down to housing development that might be inadvertently , or deliberately in some case , tap into exist sewerage network . will the Leader of the House speak with her colleague in the relevant Department to ensure that , when we look at the issue of water quality , we also consider how it be affect by housing development ? the hon . member be right to raise that issue . core to the conversation that be happen between the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs and the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government be that nature , include the issue of water supply , sewage and so on , be vital when we consider housing plan . none the less , I will ensure that he get a reply on the case that he raise . the good news be that 185 apartment around Wembley Stadium in my constituency be ready to be occupy . the bad news be that nobody can move into they , because the Building Safety Regulator have sit on its gateway 2 application for six month and its gateway 3 application for two month . we have a housing shortage . can the Leader of the House ensure that we have a debate on the delay and dysfunctionality of the Building Safety Regulator ? my hon . friend will be aware that , through the Building Safety Act 2022 bring in by the previous Government , we do now have a Building Safety Regulator . it be right , give the context in which that regulator come about follow the Grenfell fire , that we ensure that building be sign off as safe , and be able to be sign off as safe , before they can be occupy and sell . I be happy to look into this particular case to see why it have take so long for that to happen . we face an emergent healthcare crisis in town and community across the country as demand for non - surgical aesthetic treatment , include botox and dermal filler , rise . this be fuel by social medium and societal pressure on young people . such treatment often take place in unregulated high street environment and place pressure on the NHS . when will the Government bring forward legislation to introduce a mandatory licensing regime , and will they allow for a debate in Government time on the Floor of this House ? the hon . member raise an important topic , which I know affect many of our constituent . we have see a number of very high profile case lately where thing have go terribly wrong in a sector that be completely unregulated , as he say . I know that there have be plan in place for a while to bring forward the measure he describe . I will ensure that the House be update when those measure be ready , and that , in the meantime , he get a ministerial response . London Southend airport have take time to bounce back from the pandemic , but I be delighted to see that , over recent month , a number of new route have be establish . EasyJet have announce its new base at the airport and , just in the past week , Eastern Airways have announce its new route to Newquay . do the Leader of the House agree that this be positive news for the local economy and a sign of grow business confidence on the back of the Government ' s mission to kick - start economic growth ? will she join I on a visit to the airport to hear more about its future plan ? I join my hon . friend in commend the great effort of London Southend airport . I commend he and other local leader for take this airport from strength to strength in recent year , particularly over the past year . I know that easyjet be look at open a base there soon . it be clear that this airport be now go from strength to strength , which be something that his constituent will strongly support . the Office for Environmental Protection publish its annual report today on our progress in protect the environment . unfortunately , it be not good news : we be off - track on 20 out of 43 target , and only five out of its 52 recommendation last year have be implement . the report , which deal with the period under the previous Government , show that progress be slow on nature protection in that year . this Government have announce that they will review the environmental improvement plan . can the Leader of the House tell we when that review will be publish ? can a Minister come to the House to make a statement on how the Government will turn this around to protect nature ? the hon . Lady be right : that report show how little be do to protect nature under the previous Government , despite many announcement to the contrary . nature protection be a core part of our clean energy mission , and the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs be central to that mission . she will be aware that it will take a while to turn thing around , but we be commit to do so . I will ensure that she and the House be update regularly on where thing be up to , and on when the report will be respond to . we be a proud cathedral city . everyone in Peterborough have a story to tell about our cathedral , whether it be attend a carol service , go to a graduation or community event , or even remember the Foreign Secretary singing there as a chorister when he be a schoolboy . for over 900 year , our cathedral have be there for we . now , in the word of the Very Rev . Chris Dalliston , our dean , we need to be there for the cathedral , because it have a funding crisis . will the Leader of the House join I in wish the cathedral well with its appeal , and ensure that we have time in this House to debate these wonderful place , which be not just of local importance but national heritage asset ? my hon . friend be a fantastic champion for his constituency . I strongly welcome his question , and fully support what he say about Peterborough cathedral , and all the cathedral of this country . what a national asset they be . he will be aware that the Government have in place a range of support programme for place of worship , such as the list place of worship grant scheme and the Churches Conservation Trust . next week , there will be a Westminster Hall debate on the list place of worship grant scheme , in which he may want to participate . finally , I join he in strongly support the campaign to raise the fund that Peterborough cathedral need . it be nearly three year since the passing of the Down Syndrome Act 2022 , yet the guidance that would bring it to life have not be implement . People with down ' s syndrome really need support in area such as healthcare , education and employment , so could we have a debate in Government time on support for people with down ' s syndrome , and ensure that this vital legislation be fully enact ? absolutely . I thank the right hon . gentleman for raise that issue , which have not be raise with I before . the Down Syndrome Act be an important piece of legislation , recognise the amazing contribution that those with down ' s syndrome make to our society and our country , while recognise the challenge that they face , and the extra support that they need to flourish . I will find out for he where we be up to with the implementation of the Act , and ensure that he be update . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate Grimsby ' s Green Futures on its very successful wassail last Saturday ? when will we have time in the House to celebrate great english tradition such as Morris dancing , folk music and indeed wassail ? I think for a moment that my hon . friend be go to ask I to do some wassail ; I would need to look it up and get some training . I will absolutely support she in promote these great english tradition , and all the great work that be happen in Grimsby to keep they alive . I be sure that it would make a very good topic for a debate . I , too , be delighted that wassailing have be mention , because there be a wassail in my village of Hurstpierpoint last Saturday . constituent across Mid Sussex really enjoy and appreciate have access to our coastline and sea , and they rightly expect our ocean to be clean and healthy . the UN global ocean treaty be the world ' s only road map for protect at least a third of the world ' s ocean by 2030 . the UK have commit to ratify the treaty , but the next step be for the Government to introduce a short Bill to pass it into UK law . will the Leader of the House please update we on when the Government plan to introduce the legislation ? I be sure that , like I , the hon . member receive many specially write Christmas card urge we to consider introduce that legislation , so this be something I be very much aware of . she will know that we be committed to ratify the agreement , and legislation will be bring forward in due course . I can not give she a more specific timetable , but the legislation will be bring forward before we need to have ratify the treaty . I invite the Leader of the House and all hon . member to join I and the Samaritans on Monday for a brew . Blue Monday may have be invent by the travel industry to encourage we to book holiday in January , but the Samaritans have convert it to Brew Monday , when we can highlight the importance of talk to each other in an effort to prevent suicide . can we have a debate in Government time on the national suicide prevention strategy and look at what else we can do to prevent suicide ? I join my hon . friend in the effort to rebrand Blue Monday as Brew Monday . I be sure that be something we can all participate in and support . she be absolutely right to highlight the issue of suicide and mental health support . I know that they be a real personal priority of the Health Secretary , and I be sure that he will keep the House update on any progress . Center Parcs be plan an exciting new development in my constituency in the Scottish Borders . it will be the first Center Parcs in Scotland , and it will bring £ 350 million of investment and create 1 , 200 extra job for the area . however , due to under - investment by the SNP Government in Edinburgh , there be concern about the capacity of the road network , particularly the a7 through Selkirk , to deal with the extra visitor and tourist . would the Leader of the House allow time for a debate to consider how rural community can attract great investment when there be concern about the adequacy of the transport system and road network ? again , I think I be be invite to Center Parcs . I be very partial to a water slide , should colleague ever want to invite I to a Center Parcs . the hon . member raise the serious point that when much - need investment and great new facility or service come into a constituency , we need to ensure that we have the infrastructure and road to support they . the SNP Government in Scotland have just get a record settlement in the Budget , so they have no excuse not to support the road he talk about . despite community effort from Hexham rotary club and the Hexham Wombles litter pick , the old bus station site in Hexham remain an eyesore , and the developer be sadly slow - walk on redevelopment . can we have a debate in Government time on the need to make good use of disuse site on market town high street , and on how we can improve they and boost town centre , which be crucial to our economy ? breathe new life into our high street and town centre be a real priority for this Government . after year of neglect and decline , that be much need . we will bring forward an english devolution Bill later this Session , which will grant community a new right to buy derelict building such as the one my hon . friend mention . I hope that will help he and his constituent to take back control . scottish Labour Members like nothing more than get to their foot to drone on about the Scottish Government , and ask the Minister question about matter that have absolutely nothing to do with they . can we have a debate about the spectacular fall in the poll of Scottish Labour , and we could perhaps determine whose fault that be ? be it the hapless Anas Sarwar , or be it because the scottish people have see a Labour Government in action ? it be not Labour Members drone on — in fact , none of they have today raise a point of the kind he mention — but we would all welcome a debate in this House on the performance of the Scottish Government and whether they be deliver for the scottish people , because they now have the power and the fund , so they have no excuse . I associate myself with the remark of the Leader of the House about welcome a long - overdue ceasefire . my constituent Dr Ryann Sowden have be work tirelessly to support survivor of that crisis . I commend the Bolton Council of Mosques for its unwavering advocacy of peace . the House should reflect that determination . will the Leader of the House work with colleague across Government to get vital aid into Gaza before more life be tragically lose ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that issue , which she have raise consistently in the House — it be a matter of deep concern and importance for she . we all very much welcome the development in Israel and Gaza over recent hour and day , and we all want a long - last ceasefire and for the hostage to be release . crucially , as she say , it will be important to surge much - need aid into Gaza , so that we get people back to live there safely , with water and food . rise — order . it may be helpful to member to know that I will run this session until 11 . 45 am . it would therefore be very helpful if we have short question and answer , so that I can get in as many member as possible . Leicestershire be one of the area hit by significant flooding . fortunately , my constituency be relatively okay , bar pocket such as Shenton , Barwell , Sheepy Magna and Witherley . the problem be that they do not hit the Government ' s threshold for funding because they be too small and often experience flooding only to road and connector , rather than house . will the Leader of the House write to the Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs to ask he to reconsider the formula , and to provide for isolated community that be cut off but do not get breach into house ? that problem be fundamentally difficult to solve . the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right . the change in global weather as a result of climate change mean that flooding incident be more frequent and more acute , and be often hyper - localise , rather than widespread . he make a compelling point about the impact of localise flooding not just on home but on local infrastructure . I will certainly ensure that that be consider by the Secretary of State . may I invite the Leader of the House to commend the hard work of the one Love Project in my constituency ? it be a community - run non - referral service that support those most in need , include the street homeless . its provide food , warm shower , clothing , clothe - wash facility , sleep bag — the list go on . it be , above all , the welcoming and non - judgmental approach of Sharon and her fabulous team that make the work most inspiring . I invite the Leader of the House to visit the project and see its work at first hand , and to visit sunny Southend and Rochford to experience all that we have to offer , from our coastline to our cultural heritage landmark , such as Rochford town square and the medieval St Nicholas church in Great Wakering . my hon . friend paint a compelling picture of Southend and Rochford , and I would certainly be happy to visit one day . he also mention the amazing work of the one Love Project on homelessness . this country rely greatly on such organisation . the Government be commit to tackle the root cause of homelessness and ensure that funding be there to support people at the dark time of their life . family of british citizen who be murder abroad do not have not the same right as family of homicide victim in the UK . often , family cope with the trauma of that news must arrange to pay for their own translator , so that they can speak to local police and read legal document — all while try to negotiate the criminal justice system of a foreign jurisdiction . those family deserve the same right as those of homicide victim in the UK , but at the moment they be not even entitle to a police family liaison officer . will the Leader of the House make time for a debate on that , so that we can build consensus across the House on a way forward ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise such an important issue , and for give I notice that he be go to do so . the Ministry of Justice be work with the Victims ' Commissioner and other in the sector to explore how family in the situation he have describe can be well support with the information and financial assistance they need . I will ensure that the hon . Gentleman be update on that work . the Minton tile in our Central Lobby , the plate in our Tea Room , and even the chandelier in the Pugin guest room be all wonderful example of staffordshire craftsmanship , yet at the moment in this place , we be see creep number of foreign ceramic import in place of british product . can the Leader of the House , in her capacity as the Government ' s representative on the House of Commons Commission and the restoration and renewal board , say what the Government ' s policy be for ensure that artisan and creator from all corner of our nation be showcase in this place ? my hon . friend be a very strong advocate for the craftsmanship and ceramic of Stoke , and of Staffordshire more widely — he have give we some good example . sometimes I do not want to have dinner alongside my hon . friend , because he inspect all the ceramic and all the thing we be use to eat our dinner , rightly so . I will absolutely raise the point he have highlight with the House authority and ensure we be do more to support the great craftsmanship that we have in this country . yesterday , along with member from across the House , I attend the launch of the late report from the charity Open Doors , which highlight christian persecution in many country . many of the country on that charity ' s watchlist be country that the UK have close relation with . could the Leader of the House find time for a debate in Government time on that Open Doors report and what great influence the UK can bring to bear on those rogue nation ? the report that the hon . Gentleman have highlight be a really important one , and he have raise some very important topic . I will ensure that if he do not get a full ministerial reply about those topic , they be consider as important issue . he might want to raise they in an Adjournment debate or elsewhere as well . I be deeply sadden this week to see new datum from the Office for National Statistics and Health Equals , which have rank my constituency as have the low life expectancy anywhere in the UK . my constituency also have a high than average poverty rate — there be undoubtedly a link between those two stat . will the Leader of the House consider hold a debate in Government time to explore the factor that contribute to a lowered life expectancy , include the impact of poverty , to help my constituent live long , happy and more financially secure life ? the link between health inequality and poor health outcome and poverty be absolutely clear . eradicate those thing be at the heart of our health mission , but also at the heart of what this government be seek to do more widely , because we recognise that only by share prosperity and growth around the country , tackle the root of poverty , and see health as both a public health issue and an economic issue will we tackle some of these core challenge . many of we will remember the devastation that the outbreak of foot and mouth disease in 2001 cause in rural England . I be pleased that the Government have restrict commercial import of susceptible animal and personal import of animal product . however , I be remind yesterday by James , a farmer in my area , that last time , our high biosecurity standard see the dipping of vehicle and footwear . can we have a debate focus on the movement of people and vehicle into the UK from affected area — whether by road , rail , ferry or air — to prevent transmission of the virus , and particularly the installing of large notice at airport for incoming and transit passenger to declare such product ? the Government will do whatever it take to protect farmer from the risk pose by foot and mouth . we have already bring in restriction on animal product from Germany , and we will not hesitate to add additional country to that list . I reassure the hon . Lady that there be currently no case here in the UK . we do have an urgent question on this matter yesterday , but I will ensure that the House be constantly update on any further development . rise — order . may I encourage all member to reduce the length of their question by 50 % , and then everyone will get in ? last Friday , I have the privilege of meet those at the Foyer and Doncaster Housing for Young People to discuss how we can well support 16 to 25 - year - old who be homeless or vulnerably house . have experience homelessness as a child , I know how challenging that can be , so I really welcome the measure in the Renters ' Rights Bill . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate organisation such as Doncaster Housing for Young People on their vital work and in praise the measure in the Bill ? absolutely . the Renters ' right Bill — the Conservatives vote against it this week , shockingly — will see the end of section 21 no - fault eviction , which be an important measure , along with many other , towards end homelessness in this country and tackle the root cause of it . I strongly support my hon . friend ' s support for the Bill . I think one thing we can agree on across this House be that life in our constituency across the country be enrich by the work of volunteer . I be think of the volunteer in my own constituency of Nanu football club , Garforth Town football club , LS14 Trust in Seacroft , Chapel FM and CATCH — Community Action to create Hope — in Harehills , to mention just a few . every 5 December be International Volunteer Day , so will the Leader of the House consider guarantee an annual debate on international volunteer so that we can celebrate in this House the work that volunteer do in our constituency ? this get raise with I very often because volunteer do enrich our community and our society . without they , we would not have the country and the community we have . I will very much look at the suggestion of an annual debate to celebrate their contribution to our constituency . currently , there be no statutory right for time off work for fertility treatment , which cause so much stress to so many people . many employer do offer this voluntarily , which I welcome , but do the Leader of the House agree with I and campaigner such as Fertility Matters at work that it be really important to support people seek fertility treatment ? can she update we on the timetable for the Employment Rights Bill , so that we have a chance to discuss reproductive health in the workplace ? as my hon . friend will know , I be very sympathetic to the question she ask . it be one of the reason why I ensure that Members of Parliament could get proxy vote for fertility treatment , which I know many member will take advantage of . we have the Employment Rights Bill go through Committee at the moment . it will soon be come back to the House on Report , and I think she should raise these matter during the passage of that Bill . my constituent in Barking be delighted to hear the news that the train operator c2c would be bring into public ownership later this year , a decision that will see a more reliable train service . it be currently refurbish Barking station in my constituency , but the work have suffer delay after delay . will the Leader of the House seek a statement from the Government about public transport infrastructure that may be affect by their decision to nationalise train operator to reassure my constituent that such refurbishment plan will get do and will be deliver soon ? the Government ' s plan to take back our railway into public ownership will improve reliability , investment and the passenger experience , so I assure my hon . friend that those plan will be of great benefit to her constituent in the way she describe . next week , the commission for palliative care and end of life care will start take oral and write evidence , and I really hope that Members will ask their specialist and their constituent to participate in that . will the Leader of the House ensure that , when the commission report , we have a debate on its finding so that we can optimise palliative and end of life care ? I thank my hon . friend for all her campaign on the important issue of palliative care , which so many in our country rely on at the very bad stage of their life . I will ensure that the House be constantly update on these matter , which I know be particularly important to the Secretary of State for Health . several home in my constituency be badly flood , with more than 500 home flood internally across the east midland . I express my sympathy to all those impact . it be especially concern to hear about the verbal abuse direct towards flood warden , who work exceptionally hard to protect their community . do my right hon . friend agree that that be unacceptable ? will she ensure that the House consider how good to protect these fantastic volunteer ? it be completely unacceptable that volunteer act as flood warden in these difficult time be on the wrong end of abuse from anybody . I will ensure that these matter be raise in government and that we send a strong signal that it will not be tolerate and that action will be take against the perpetrator . thirty year on from the Disability Discrimination Act 1995 , there be still train station in my constituency that be not fully accessible , include Burntisland and Cowdenbeath station . this create unacceptable daily barrier for disabled people , family with pram and buggy and those with heavy luggage . do the Leader of the House agree that we need support from the Access for all fund and action from Network Rail , Transport Scotland and ScotRail so that station be make accessible ? will she make time for a debate on railway accessibility ? accessibility on our railway be raise many time with I in these session and across the House . let we be honest : the accessibility of many of our station , include in my hon . friend ' s constituency , be deeply inadequate for those with buggy , in wheelchair or whatever else . the Rail Minister be carefully consider the good approach to the Access for all programme , but I will ensure that the House be regularly update . establish join - up health hub in town such as Saltash and Liskeard could bring routine service from across the Tamar close to home , ease pressure on Derriford hospital . while recent debate have address broad rural healthcare issue , will the Leader of the House provide Government time to discuss how integrate , localise healthcare can well serve rural community by relocate routine patient care from hospital to community setting ? my hon . friend know that we inherit a national health service on its knee , as she describe . as part of our mission and our endeavour to turn that around , she will know that get care back into community , early intervention , prevention and primary service be critical , and I hope that will well serve her constituent in the future . my constituent Angie have raise with I the serious issue of shortage of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder medication . her son be struggle in school , and he be not the only one , as the shortage have be affect the country since 2023 . can the Leader of the House set out the Government ' s position on this issue and how we can ensure that this medication be make available ? the Department of Health and Social Care be work hard with industry and NHS England to help resolve the supply issue with ADHD medicine , which be a global problem . I will ensure that he and the House be update on any progress . in March last year , Members discuss the need for improved personal protective equipment for woman , an issue bring forward during the pandemic . Arco Professional Safety Services , which have a safety training centre in my constituency , recognise the need and tell I during a recent visit that it be trialle woman ' s size as standard . will the Leader of the House allocate Government time to debate legislating for the mandatory provision of woman - specific and inclusive PPE ? despite great progress in recent decade , we be all still well aware that too many product in the world be design by man , for man , and we still need to address some of those issue . I be sure it would make a very good topic for a debate . the conservative council that run Barnet for 20 year leave Hendon ' s road in a dreadful state with terrible pothole and pavement . since it be elect , the Labour council that take over have be invest record amount in tackle the large backlog that the Conservatives leave . I be pleased that the Government this week announce that they would invest £ 1 . 6 billion in fix pothole this year . that be a huge increase over the previous Government . will my right hon . friend grant a debate on how we can put our foot down and drive forward the Government ' s plan as quickly as possible to help motorist in Hendon ? my hon . friend be right . we have a plan to fix the pothole of this country , with huge investment go in . we want council , such as Hendon , to get on with use those fund to fix the problem of pothole . unregulated and uninsured soup - up electric scooter have be a real source of antisocial behaviour in Derby . our police and crime commissioner Nicolle Ndiweni - Roberts have be work with Derbyshire constabulary to clamp down on illegal e - scooter , seize and dispose of more than 200 since November . will the Leader of the House ensure that a Home Office Minister and a Transport Minister meet I and other member who have be raise such concern to ensure that we be push forward with regulation and enforcement in relation to e - scooter ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this issue , which I know blight many community . we be take action to deal with e - scooter , make it easy for those vehicle to be seize where necessary , and other measure be come to tackle antisocial behaviour as well . Middle East with permission , I will update the House on the deal announce between Israel and Hamas . last night , US President Biden and qatari Prime Minister Al Thani confirm that negotiator have reach an agreement . while we await political approval for the text , the agreement be expect to come into force shortly after midday Israel time on Sunday 19 January . after month of despair , there be now hope ; a glimmer of light in the darkness ; a darkness that have seem all - consume since Hamas ' s barbaric terrorist attack on 7 October 2023 . I be sure that the whole House remember the agony as we learn the full horror of what have unfold and the grief as we mourn those who be lose . for the hostage family , the agony have go on and on . member across the House will have meet many of they , include the relative of british citizen Emily Damari , and Eli Sharabi , Oded Lifschitz and Avinatan Or . I know that we have family with we in the Public Gallery . I pay tribute once again to they for their bravery , humanity and commitment to bring the hostage home . I invite the House to join I in remember those murder in captivity , include Nadav Popplewell and Yossi Sharabi . may their memory be a blessing . I say to all those now wait anxiously to see what this deal mean for they : we be with you in the day and week ahead . in Gaza today , civilian will be wait anxiously to see what this deal mean for they . I say to they , too : we be with you as you begin to rebuild your life . after 15 month of conflict , the level of suffering defy belief . gazan have truly be trap in hell on earth — over 46 , 000 kill , so many child ' s life extinguish , school , hospital and home destroy , and hunger and disease . almost 2 million have be force to flee their home , with northern Gaza cut off from the rest of the strip . a generation have be scar by the savagery of war . among the victim be Hind Rajab , a five - year - old palestinian girl kill alongside member of her family and the paramedic who come to rescue she . among the victim be many journalist dedicate to document the horror around they . among the victim be aid worker dedicate to serve other , include british citizen John Chapman , James Henderson and James Kirby . I invite the House to join I in remember they all . we mourn every innocent victim of this appalling war . beyond Israel and Gaza , the conflict have bring yet more tension and conflict into the wide region , with unprecedented iranian attack , a renew conflict in Lebanon and Houthi strike in the Red sea and into Israel . at time , our own community — and indeed this House — have be divide by this war . this be a moment of hope for we all , to unite in support of this ceasefire . the agreement as negotiate have three stage . in the first six - week phase we expect that both party will stop fight . thirty - three of the hostage will be free : child , woman , those over 50 and the wound . Israel will start to redeploy to the edge of the strip . Palestinians will return to what be leave of their home . the Rafah crossing will reopen . Israel will allow 600 truckload of aid into Gaza each day . on the 16th day , negotiation will begin on the detail of the second phase . in the second six - week phase , the male hostage under 50 will be release . Israel will complete its withdrawal from Gaza , and there will be a permanent ceasefire . finally , a third phase will see the return of the body of any remain hostage and the lifting of economic restriction on Gaza . as President Biden say , the element of this deal be endorse by the United Nations Security Council last May . it have take tireless effort to reach the agreement of both side , with report of final talk this week last an intense 96 hour . I congratulate all those who have contribute to get to this stage : in particular , his highness the Emir of Qatar and Prime Minister Al Thani ; egyptian President Sisi and Foreign Minister Abdelatty ; and President Biden and Secretary Blinken , as well as President - elect Trump . the UK have be support they throughout . from day one in office , the Government have press at every stage for an immediate ceasefire , to free the hostage , to get more aid into Gaza and to open up a path to last peace . I visit Israel and the occupied Palestinian Territories for the third time as Foreign Secretary just a few day ago , meet Foreign Minister Sa ' ar , President Abbas and hostage family , to press for an end to this war and a plan for the future . we have also play a lead role in the humanitarian effort , restart funding to the United Nations Relief and Works Agency , fund field hospital that have treat more than 300 , 000 gazan , and provide more than £ 100 million in support to the Palestinians this financial year . I pay tribute to Foreign Office Ministers in the last government for their work to deliver aid to Gaza . now I be in this role , I know how hard they work . that intense effort must continue in the day and week ahead . much remain to be do . it be critical that there be final approval of the agreement . as the israeli Cabinet meet , I urge they to back this deal . now be not the time for any backtracking . both side must implement each phase of the deal in full and on time . the history of this conflict be litter with miss opportunity . it would be a tragedy to let slip the chance before we — we must grab it with both hand . it be the chance not just for a ceasefire but for a last peace , and to break the cycle of violence that have inflict so much suffering on innocent people on both side . the Government be commit to sustain momentum , however fragile the process at first may be . every hostage must be release , as set out in the agreement . every ounce of aid promise to Gaza must reach those in need . I be send my representative for humanitarian affair to the region , to work closely with aid agency , the israeli Government and our partner to deliver on these promise . Palestinians must also be free to return to their home and , crucially , they will need to rebuild : rebuild their home , rebuild their life and rebuild their community . they can not possibly do that on their own . they need to feel safe and they need the international community to deliver the fund they will require . the UK have already begin to convene partner on the financing and co - ordination of recovery and reconstruction . it be essential that the come surge of assistance be properly co - ordinated , with the access and security to get to people all that they need . the Palestinian Authority have a crucial role to play . we want donor to support its plan for recovery , and I discuss that with President Abbas on Monday . we be provide technical and financial assistance to the PA , include to support the urgent recovery of basic service . work with the Palestinian Authority and civil society will help lay the groundwork for an inclusive palestinian governance in Gaza . that be the good way to re - establish local order and security . it be therefore a crucial first step in achieve not only well life for Palestinians but a future for Gaza no long under the control of Hamas . ultimately , it will take time to rebuild Gaza and rebuild trust between the two side . I must warn the House that there be risk at every turn . but we must try to use the agreement to establish a credible pathway to a two - state solution , with equal measure of security , dignity and justice for Israelis and Palestinians alike . the decade - long conflict between Israelis and Palestinians can not be manage ; it must now be resolve . we be not yet there and there be much negotiate still to do . as we debate in this House , fighting continue . the agreement await full political approval . the hostage family wait for the hostage to come home . gazan wait for the horror to be lift . however , we must still recognise the significance of this moment . it have be long - await — frankly , it have take far too long — and I sincerely hope it be now the basis for progress : progress on bring the hostage home , progress on bring relief , reconstruction and hope to long - suffer civilian , and progress towards a two - state solution with Palestinians and Israelis live in peace and security ; a well future for all . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Foreign Secretary . all Members recognise the fragile and sensitive nature of the current situation . there be a long road ahead at one of the most important moment for the middle east , which we all hope will usher in a sustainable end to the dreadful conflict in Gaza . it be a conflict that we should never forget be trigger by the horrific Hamas terror attack of 7 October 2023 — the bad terror attack in Israel ' s history and the most murderous pogrom against the jewish people since the Holocaust . we have in our thought today the victim of that appalling massacre : those who lose their life , include the hostage murder in captivity , and those whose life have be change forever . every single hostage must be return safely home and reunite with family and friend after 15 month of the most unimaginable cruelty at the hand of Hamas . even in the midst of that unimaginable pain and anxiety , the family of those hold hostage have keep the torch burn for their love one , with publicity highlight their plight with such resilience and tremendous bravery . we be join in the House today by the family of hostage who we know will not be eligible for immediate release . I recently meet Emily Damari ' s mother Mandy and Dani Miran , whose son Omri be also in captivity . we all pay tribute to they all for their unceasing campaign to secure the release of their love one and all those in captivity . this will , of course , be a time of great emotion for they — mixed emotion — and in the come week , we must continue to wrap our arm around those hostage family . like the Foreign Secretary , I acknowledge the important role of Qatar , Egypt and the United States in get we to where we be today in these talk . we will all follow these development closely in the day ahead , and we will expect the UK Government to be fully engage and involve in the heavy lifting that be require at this crucial time to make this agreement work and last . to that end , can the Foreign Secretary to tell the House specifically what role the UK Government have play in these negotiation and about their contribution to reach this agreement ? can he give assurance that the UK will help Israel in any way possible to support the safe return of the hostage , which will be so critical in ensure that the agreement endure ? can he inform the House — it may yet be too early — whether any of the palestinian prisoner be release be responsible for the death or injury of british national , and about the step be put in place to manage the potential risk of dangerous individual be set free ? on the question of humanitarian aid to Gaza , what work have he undertake to unpick the awful bottleneck that we have see over month and month , while we have see innocent civilian suffer ? will civilian now receive the vital aid that we have be tell will get through to bring essential relief to community across Gaza ? on the future governance of Gaza , we have so far hear little about the " day after " plan , but this be extremely important ; I know the Foreign Secretary will come back to this House in due course , but I would welcome his thought on the matter . be it the Foreign Secretary ' s position that Hamas must have no role in the future of Gaza ? we want to see an end to the brutality with which they have conduct themselves . do he agree that if the Palestinian Authority do indeed assume responsibility in Gaza , in order to have an endure and last peace , they must undertake the most comprehensive reform in their history , with serious shift not just in their behaviour but on education and welfare , and that they must bring the course of democracy through to the end that we would like to see ? have he this week deliver that unambiguous message to the palestinian leadership ? the right people must be involve to ensure that solid foundation be put in place on which Gaza can rebuild and to ensure a lasting , well future so that every generation can live their life in peace , with the opportunity that have be deny to they for too long . in the day ahead , our focus need to be on secure the release of the hostage , get the aid into Gaza and work for that last peace . however , there be some related point that the Foreign Secretary will also need to consider . on Israel , for example , that include whether the change to the approach on the International Criminal Court arrest warrant will happen and what should happen from the Government ' s position ; it also include the arrangement for the future reconstruction of Gaza . he have just touch on this , but what contribution do he think the United Kingdom should make ? his thought would be welcome . there be many complexity here . will he also commit to insert the UK ' s enthusiastic approach to fresh discussion on the Abraham accord and the role that will play in the peace , stability and prosperity in the region ? finally , we have see for over a year the world ' s only jewish state be ruthlessly attack from all side , from the Hamas terrorist in Gaza to the Hezbollah terrorist in Lebanon and the Houthis in Yemen , from which iranian - link militia in Iraq have be direct their course of action , while Iran and its proxy have use innocent palestinian civilian as human shield without any care for their welfare or wellbee . we need to know that this Government will step up when it come to address the root cause , which rest in Tehran . the Government , the international community and all of we will want a robust strategy towards Iran if we be to build a lasting and sustainable peace in the middle east . I thank the shadow Foreign Secretary for her remark and for her tone . do this role , one understand the effort that one ' s predecessor have put in , so I want to put on the record once again that the right hon . member for Braintree ( Mr Cleverly ) and for Sutton Coldfield ( Mr Mitchell ) and Lord Cameron , before I , make tremendous effort on behalf of the UK Government to get we to this point . I know that they , like I , will sincerely wish that we could have reach this point soon . this be indeed a day on which we can be grateful for the UK ' s diplomacy in get we to this point . the right hon . Lady ask about the role that the UK have play . she will know that it be quite right that Qatar and Egypt , with their proximity to Hamas , should be central in bring about the ceasefire ; and that the United States , with its particular relationship with Israel , should also stand alongside they . but she will know , because of our complex foreign policy relationship with all those party , the tremendous effort that UK diplomat have put in to get we to this path . indeed , I be with they in Israel and in the occupy territory on Monday this week . it be very important to be with british hostage family in particular , to assure they and counsel they that my judgment be that we would get to this point , as fragile as it be — I want to emphasise the fragility — at this time , but also to be in the occupy territory , the west bank and east Jerusalem , to spend time with President Abbas , to discuss with he what now need to happen in Gaza in term of its reconstruction and the reform that the right hon . Lady rightly emphasise be essential for the Palestinian Authority . the right hon . Lady know that we have Sir Michael Barber work with the Palestinian Authority to lift up that capacity in the reform that will be necessary to play that role — alongside other , clearly — in Gaza . when I think of other , I think about the international community as well , but alongside they it be important that the UK play its part . I will come back to the subject of reconstruction in a moment . the right hon . Lady rightly talk about the humanitarian situation in Gaza . we have provide £ 112 million in this financial year , include £ 41 million specifically for UNRWA . we want to see the number of truck increase and the figure that have be set in the ceasefire agreement meet . I will say this , though : the situation will require proper governance in Gaza if we be to achieve that . at the moment , we have gang . there be a possibility , as the space open up , that actually we will get an increase in gang and less aid to the people who need it . this be the first phase of the deal . there will still be hostage leave after the first phase and into the second phase , and potentially into the third phase . we know that able man be not part of the first phase . they need humanitarian aid at this time and hostage family press I to ensure that their loved one be get access to that humanitarian aid . so this be a fragile moment and the UK be press for a political process , because only a political process will get not just the ceasefire , but the long - term stability that mean gazan can truly rebuild their life . the right hon . Lady talk about a " day after " plan . the UK be ready to play a lead role in this process , with international and regional partner . it should be predicate on tangible progress , in our view , towards a palestinian state , with Gaza and the west bank unite under one government . the Palestinian Authority ' s role in Gaza must therefore be front and centre . planning need to advance security both for Gazans and for Israel , and Israel ' s security will be fundamental if we be to bring this to an end . that will take intense negotiation and discussion . there clearly will be an important role for the international community in the come day but , in this fragile moment of phase 1 , if we be to complete phase 3 then we will need that intensity in term of negotiation . my view be very clear : there can not be a role for Hamas . the terrorism must come to an end . Trust have to be rebuild . there can not be a role for Hamas . only with that candle that we keep alight for a two - state solution can we actually reach the normalisation that be at the heart of any building on the Abraham accord and the relationship between Saudi Arabia and Israel that can bring a lot of prosperity for people in the middle east . the right hon . Lady be right that Iran remain a malign force . this week , british diplomat be discuss with Iran its nuclear programme and what need to happen if we be not to see the snapback of our sanction as a consequence of the joint comprehensive plan of action later this year . we will do all that we can diplomatically . this be the moment when the Iranians need to step up and do the right thing , and I know that be acutely in the mind of the incoming US Administration . I call the Chair of the International Development Committee . I thank the Foreign Secretary for his statement and support every word that he have say . no one want a ceasefire more than I do . I can not describe the tear that I and other in the House have shed for all the innocent civilian who have be murder and maim . I can not think what the family of the hostage be go through , and , to be honest , I do not want to think of what the hostage themselves have endure . but the ceasefire be far from certain , the peace follow it be far from certain , and the two - state solution be very far from certain . what be certain be that on 28 January the Knesset ' s legislation that effectively ban UNRWA come into force , and I be unable to see how the aid , the stability , the health system and the school can be implement if that happen . my Committee will publish a report on this subject tomorrow , but can the Foreign Secretary speak now about what he be do to urge Israel to ensure that that legislation do not come into force and that aid can flood in where it be need ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for all her endeavour on these issue on behalf her Committee , and on behalf of this country . she be right that colleague in all part of the House , in this Parliament and the last , have shed tear about this most heartbreaking of conflict . in my 25 year in the House , I have not see such emotion from UK parliamentarian in relation to this central challenge . as for the position of the UK Government , in the midst of this conflict , when there be so many child out of school , so many child orphan and so many hospital lie in rubble , when there be disease and famine , we can not see how there can not be a role for the central UN agency at this time if this peace be to hold . on Monday , I make that point to the israeli Government again . along with my french and german colleague , I write to the israeli Foreign Minister , make that point and press he on the winterisation plan that we believe must be implement . the clock be tick down to that Knesset legislation . what we do not want be the undermining of the peace that begin on Sunday by that legislation just a few day into its passing . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Foreign Secretary for advance sight of his statement . this ceasefire be welcome by all who have watch with horror as the suffering that begin on 7 October 2023 have worsen for so many , and I add my thank to all those who have work so hard to deliver it . I be think today of the Palestinians and Israelis I have meet whose life have be tear apart by this conflict , and to whom this news bring a moment of hope ; of the british family of israeli hostage who continue to live with uncertainty and fear about the fate of their love one ; and of the Palestinians whose daughter , son , sister , brother , mother and father have lose their life and home . the priority must now be ensure that humanitarian assistance flood into Gaza , and that all possible effort be make to secure the release of the remain hostage . I urge the Foreign Secretary to do everything in his power — as he have just say — to persuade Israel not to implement the Knesset ' s resolution on UNRWA , which would do so much harm and would undermine the progress that be be make . I be grateful today for the fact that a deal have be reach , but I be also angry that it have take so long . in the month of delay , there have be no relief for the hostage family . so many more life have be lose , and so much more destruction have be visit on people in Gaza , include further death even since the ceasefire deal be announce . the block to progress have be extremist on both side , the terrorist in Hamas and the supporter of annexation in the israeli Cabinet : people who do not want peace , but want to erase another population from the land . so I ask the Foreign Secretary these question . will the UK Government isolate the extremist and empower the majority of Israelis and Palestinians who want peace ? will he commit the UK to work tirelessly for a last peace through a two - state solution with a recognise palestinian state base on the 1967 border ? will he redouble effort in diplomacy and through financial measure against the backer and enabler of Hamas to cut off their fund ? will he now proscribe the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps ? will he spell out to the government of Israel and the United States that settler violence and illegal annexation in the west bank must stop , and will the UK Government now recognise the palestinian state ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for his tone and for raise those issue . he be right about UNRWA . as I have say , this first phase be a critical period , and I believe that withdraw UNRWA would destabilise it . I would ask Israel to think very carefully about how we can achieve a surge in humanitarian aid if that be the direction of travel . there be extremist on both side . the hon . Gentleman be right . this deal be substantially on the table last May , put down by President Biden . it have take a Herculean effort . it be important that President - elect Trump be there to apply pressure to get the deal over the line , and I think that all of we in the House would applaud the bipartisan spirit of envoy from both the current and future administration of the United States in Qatar over the last few day to get it over the line . however , the hon . Gentleman know that the israeli Security Cabinet be meet over the next few hour to decide whether to proceed with this deal . he know , as a politician , that there be politician currently in the Government of Israel who be threaten to resign and bring down that government , so he know how fragile this moment be — I urge our friend in the israeli Government to do the right thing and get this deal over the line now — and he know , too , that we applaud the work of Egypt and Qatar and their mediation with Hamas , but there have be problem between those outside Gaza associate with Hamas and those inside Gaza associate with Hamas , and that make this first phase delicate as well . of course , we want to see a two - state solution . my party be commit to palestinian recognition at the right point . the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right to raise the challenge on the west bank . the unravelling of UNRWA would make the west bank even more fragile than it currently be . I be there on Monday , and security issue , expansion and settler violence all get bad in 2024 — it be the bad year on record for violence and expansion . there be much to do . I thank my right hon . friend for his statement , and I thank everybody who have be involve in get we to where we be now . I appreciate how fragile it be , but it be still fantastic news . I particularly want to commend the dignity and grace of the palestinian and israeli family who have lose love one or be wait for news about they . I wonder what lesson we can learn from they , in term of their commitment to peace , their recognition of our common humanity and their desire to live alongside each other in peace . my hon . friend have be on this issue day after day ; I can not think of a colleague who have press I more on it . she be right to centre the family on both side and their dignity and grace , and these historic people , all of whom want a home , all of whom want security and all of whom have be horribly affect by this most horrendous of war . our responsibility to they be to continue to press for the political process that get we to the two - state solution that we all know be the only way to achieve last peace . I call the Father of the House . I think the Foreign Secretary have speak for the whole House today with his tone . I be sure he would agree that it be possible to be four - square behind the israeli Government in their right to defend themselves and defeat Hamas and at the same time to care about the suffering of the palestinian people . will the Foreign Secretary use his charm or whatever influence he have on the incoming Trump Administration to persuade they to use their power to convince the israeli Government that these illegal new settlement in the west bank must stop , and the pressure on the palestinian people in the west bank must stop , because it be fuel a sense of despair and future extremism ? I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for bring his tremendous experience in the House to bear . he be absolutely right . he will be pleased to know that when I discuss these issue with President Abbas on Monday , he be complimentary about the conversation he have have with President - elect Trump on these matter , and of course , he have an exist relationship with President - elect Trump . that leave I very hopeful indeed . the right hon . Gentleman be right : the expansion particularly undermine the 1967 settlement , and it make it very difficult to achieve the two - state solution . those who try to thwart the possibility of a two - state solution be say that their belief be either in no state at all , which be entirely unacceptable , or it be in one state , in which case they have well get on and ensure equality for all . I be sure the whole House will join I in pay tribute to the incredible bravery of the hostage family . we be join in the House by the family of Tal Shoham , Nimrod Cohen , Ohad Yahalomi , Omri Miran and Shay Levinson . I meet with they this morning . their suffering continue — the uncertainty , the sleepless night — while they wait for a final deal and to know whether their love one will be come home . what reassurance can the Foreign Secretary give to they and to the House that the UK will do everything in its power to make sure that their love one come home , that all UK - relate hostage come home as a matter of priority and that all hostage come home as soon as possible , to end their suffering ? I thank my hon . friend for raise the issue of hostage . I pay tribute to the 17 british national kill since the abhorrent attack on 7 October . our hope be that three of the UK and UK - link hostage will be release in the first phase , as they fall into the criterion for that release , which we anticipate will be agree later today . of course , it be our sincere hope that as we get to the second and third phase , all hostage will be release . we continue to work with all UK - link hostage family . I be with many on Monday , and our representative and diplomat have be in touch with they overnight and in the last few day . this be the most difficult of time , as they wait to see the fate of their love one . my hon . friend will recognise that there be fight yesterday , in which nine Israel Defence Forces soldier lose their life , there be fight this morning , and it be likely that there will be fight right up to the ceasefire on Sunday . this be the most challenging of moment , as those hostage family wait and , in the come day and week , pray that their loved one be return . I would like to put on record my gratitude to the Foreign Secretary for his kind word about the work that be do prior to his party form a government . I echo the praise that he have give to the US State Department and the egyptian and qatari Foreign Ministers for the work they have do to get this deal over the line , but as he say , it be not there yet , so I want to ask two thing . to ensure that the hostage be release promptly , what can we do to make sure this deal get over the line ? sadly , we have see too much aid divert away from the palestinian people in Gaza and use to facilitate attack against Israelis , so what will the Department do to ensure as good it can that the aid get to the people who need it and be not use to murder Israelis ? the right hon . Gentleman centre the important work of the United Kingdom in relation to humanitarian aid in particular at this time . he will know that in order for the aid to get in , we have to have security . he will also know that there be a critical role for the United Nations , which can achieve about 250 truck . it be my sincere hope that Israel be able to restart the use of commercial organisation to increase that number even far , but he will recognise that this present a massive challenge , as have be set out by the head of UNRWA and the Office for the Co - ordination of Humanitarian Affairs . the challenge be that this be take place against a backdrop of huge displacement of Gazans over this time and of gang roam the street , so there be a worry that they could get access to the aid as the space open up . there be a lot to do , and how we achieve that security with the Israelis withdraw and how Gulf state get the confidence to step in and begin reconstruction — they do not want to put money in if it will all be tear down a few week or month later — be critical . the UK have say that we be ready to play that role on the day after and in reconstruction . we want to work alongside the region and the United States to co - ordinate and build that . he will also know that while a lot of emphasis be place on the ceasefire , when it come to what happen next , there be much , much more to do and negotiate . as the Foreign Secretary say , today there be the first ember of hope after what have feel like perpetual agony for the people of Israel and Palestine . he mention that Gazans have be trap in hell on earth , and it have be a living nightmare for the family of the hostage . I know that the Foreign Secretary and his team will not rest until we see all the hostage release and a ceasefire take full effect . he speak of the uncertainty around the path ahead . what more can the UK Government do to play our role in work towards the share goal of a two - state solution , and when will be the right time for we to recognise a sovereign state of Palestine ? we hold out that a two - state solution must be the way forward . we believe that normalising relation between Israel and Saudi Arabia be key , and that there must be palestinian component . we will press to achieve that , and we will work alongside President - elect Trump and his team in the come day to hopefully bring that about . may I thank the Foreign Secretary for his kind remark and applaud his expression of cautious optimism ? it be cautious because the agony of the hostage continue and the urgent need for a quantum increase in humanitarian aid remain unrequited . the deal must be implement in good faith , and I very much welcome his comment that Hamas can never again govern that space . I pay tribute to his diplomat and official for their extraordinary hard work and effectiveness , and I underline that Britain have a very important role to play in what come next . will he bear in mind that abject devastation can lead to unforeseen breakthrough ? follow the Yom Kippur war , we see Israel make peace with Egypt , and significant progress be make on the Oslo accord follow the intifada . the right hon . Gentleman bring to bear his tremendous experience of these issue , which have be build up over many year and many different role in Government and beyond . he be right to focus on the fact that Hamas can not play a role , but he probably agree with I . I never believe , as some in the israeli Government do , that they could eradiate Hamas solely by military force . what eradicate extremism be diplomacy , a political solution and a political horizon that pull the rug from under the terrorist . that be why it be hugely important that the UK now play its full role in reach a political solution and a political horizon that bring about peace , not another generation of militant young man with terrorism and pain in their heart . I thank the Foreign Secretary for his statement . I have dare to feel some hope that this ceasefire could be the beginning of the end of Israel ' s 15 month of pain and suffering since the appalling Hamas attack , and the end of 15 month in which the entire population of Gaza have wonder day in , day out whether they will survive another day of bombing . the humanitarian situation be dire . staff at the Al - Awda hospital , the only partially function hospital in the north of Gaza , report that they have be entirely cut off from aid supply . the long - await and so far fail flood of aid be absolutely necessary , but the success of aid effort must be measure not just by how many truck get in , essential as that is , but by how many life be ultimately protect and save . what urgent measure be the Foreign Secretary take to ensure that that be the case ? half a million people in Gaza have receive essential healthcare as a result of UK funding , and it be very important to support UK - Med when we come into office . over 600 , 000 young people in Gaza have receive food as a result of our effort , but there be a tremendous amount to do , as my hon . friend know . the threat to UNRWA could thwart these effort in the come day . it be about how we get the number of truckload up , how we deliver security for the Gazan people and how people can return to their home , which be now the hope . but she will understand that many of they be return to rubble . actually , they be return to camp in the surround of their home , and they will need aid and support for many , many year , and probably for decade to come . as we hope for this ceasefire deal and for the release of the hostage , we continue to mourn all of those who have be kill since the vicious terrorist attack by Hamas on 7 October 2023 . in that respect , my mind be very much with the six little baby who do not see this proposal because they freeze to death in Gaza just a few short week ago . the collective punishment of the palestinian people will not be forget by history , just as all of those who sit silent , and who encourage and armed extremist in the israeli Government , will be judge by history . the ceasefire deal be not yet certain ; it have be widely report this morning that the israeli Cabinet have not yet sign it off . can the Secretary of State please elaborate on what the consequence would be if either Hamas or , indeed , the israeli Government renege on this deal ? I say to the right hon . Gentleman that the Labour party have always stress the seriousness of Israel ' s security in the tough of neighbourhood , because Iran and its proxy have so much malign intent . but we have always insist that what it do must be within international humanitarian law , and we have raise our concern at every turn when we have feel that it be be breach . as the israeli Cabinet meet to approve the deal at this most serious of moment , it be my sincere hope that they hear what President - elect Trump have say about his expectation of this deal , that they hear the expectation of this united House of Commons , and that they do the right thing . the Foreign Secretary rightly say that we must use this agreement to establish a pathway to a two - state solution . step along that pathway be set out in the advisory opinion of the International Court of Justice that be hand down last July , and they would provide the reassurance and security to allow for reconstruction in Gaza . when will the Government publish their response to that opinion ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for all his work over the last few month to focus on the plight of people in Gaza . I know that he have tremendous legal expertise in these matter , and I assure he that this issue be be study in depth by the appropriate legal mind in Government . we hope to be able to say more when that process be complete . every Friday since 7 October , many people have gather in Borehamwood , in the heart of my constituency , with a simple message : " bring they home . " may I urge the Foreign Secretary to use all the diplomatic effort of his Majesty ' s Government to bring that vision to bear ? the first thing to do be to secure agreement from the israeli Cabinet . as he say , the deal could go wrong at each stage of the process . can we keep a focus on bring the hostage home ? if we have an endure ceasefire , as we all hope and pray , will he update the House on the role that our friend and ally in the Gulf state can play in rebuild Gaza ? that will be crucial in ensure that peace endure . I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for bring the experience of his constituency to bear . we have a family of constituency in north London where a candle have be light for the hostage every single Friday , include in the Stamford Hill area of my constituency , which he know be one of the historical home of the jewish community , many have migrate to Borehamwood and Hertfordshire over the year . the right hon . Gentleman be also right to mention the importance of the Gulf state . they can do so much for the reconstruction and rebuilding of Gaza . they can do so much to support a rehabilitated and reform Palestinian Authority . they can do so much to support the monitoring and security arrangement that will need to be put in place if Israel be to be assure that it can withdraw and that Hamas will not attack again . we should remember the rocket fire that Israel have experience over many , many year , include , of course , the attack on 7 October . there be a key role for the Gulf state , but they will not take up that role unless there be renew and continue negotiation beyond phase 1 , which begin in 16 day ' time . they will need a political horizon , too . I welcome the ceasefire , after 15 month of relentless bombing of hospital , school , refugee camp , and woman and child . for the ceasefire to last , it be important that Israel be compel to recognise that Palestinians have a right to freedom , justice and self - determination . what step be be take to thicken the thin layer of ice on which this ceasefire agreement be skate ? will the Foreign Secretary tell we what step be be take to negotiate a two - state solution , which go to the heart and root cause of this problem , and to ensure that East Jerusalem be the capital of Palestine ? rise — I be conscious of how many member be on their foot . I will attempt to go a little quick . the palestinian cause be a just cause . a two - state solution be where we have to be . a political process be necessary . I will play my full part , and I reassure President Abbas that we will do that over the come day and week . we live in hope of a ceasefire and the release of the hostage . however , we can not forget everything that have come before : the mass atrocity on 7 October be follow by 15 month of destruction wage against Gaza ' s civilian by the israeli Government . the Foreign Secretary mention how we eradicate extremism . extremism be also eradicate by justice . only justice can redress crime . what step be he take to support the International Court of Justice and the ICC to hold all perpetrator of war crime to account ? will he publish the full record of the UK ' s political and military involvement in the conflict so far ? we have always be clear about the importance of international humanitarian law , and we have always be clear about the importance of its being determine by international court . let I be crystal clear : many man and woman from this country die in the second world war to achieve the settlement that give we international humanitarian law and the architecture on which we all rely . it be for that reason that the Labour party will never renege on our responsibility in relation to international humanitarian law . the Foreign Secretary rightly mention the Houthis and their attack . we must not forget that peace in the region will come about only if the Yemenis receive the same privilege as the Palestinians . there have to be a peace solution for the Yemenis . a two - state solution have also be mention . my constituent and I believe that these be only warm word . I do not believe that this Government will recognise Palestine as a state in this Parliament . can the Foreign Secretary prove I wrong ? the Minister for the middle east , my hon . friend the Member for Lincoln ( Mr Falconer ) , be currently travel to New York to meet the yemeni Foreign Minister to discuss these issue . my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Hall Green and Moseley ( Tahir Ali ) be absolutely right about the Houthis . their horrendous behaviour , sabotage international trade and kill people in the Red sea , be entirely unacceptable . this will be very interesting . now that we have this ceasefire , will the Houthis hold to it in the Red sea ? we will act where we need to , to deal with the problem we be see in the Red sea . this be a moment to have hope for those two state , and to keep that alive . with the incoming Trump Administration ' s previous commitment to the Abraham accord , I ask my hon . friend to be hopeful about achieve that full recognition and those two state . I welcome the Foreign Secretary ' s tone , content and , above all else , caution . there be clearly concern that Hamas be try to resile from the commitment they have make in this deal . in fact , overnight , their leader praise the event of 7 October , vow to keep repeat they until Israel be eliminate and call upon all his follower to continue the fight . equally , the Foreign Secretary have not mention that part of this deal , as I understand it , will see the release of palestinian prisoner who have be convict of terrorist offence . the risk be that they will return and cause more problem . what can he do to ensure that Hamas be eliminate from government in Gaza , so that the Palestinian Authority can take control and ensure that peace be restore to the region ? we look forward to the release of the hostage and , indeed , the cessation of hostility . the hon . Gentleman be right that , over this period , we could see up to 1 , 500 prisoner release . it will be weigh very heavily on the heart of many Israelis that among those prisoner will be people who have commit murder , and it will weigh heavily on their heart that those people be return to Gaza . our view be that we need a political process if we be to undermine seasoned terrorist who , by necessity , be swap to get these hostage out . this be a delicate process . there be a process within Israel in which some of the affected family can object , but the hon . Gentleman be right to recognise the balance that have be strike to achieve the hostage deal and the necessary ceasefire over the come day . as a former aid worker , I be in Gaza last April and witness the enormity of the horror and destruction for Palestinians there . the scale of the human trauma of the last 15 month be a gape wound on the conscience of the world — israeli baby hold hostage , some 20 , 000 palestinian child kill . the Foreign Secretary have make it clear that he agree that it be desperately important that this ceasefire agreement hold and go ahead , and that the deal be implement in full , include the reconstruction of Gaza . he be absolutely right . do he agree that the Palestinians of Gaza , include my friend and former colleague Mahmoud , Mohammed , Moe , Fikr , Wasim and so many other displace within and outside Gaza , must have free movement to return to their home — or what be leave of they — and that this must include the reopening of the Rafah crossing ? I pay tribute to my hon . friend , who , I know , have lose friend and colleague over the course of the past 15 month . I also pay tribute to she for her work before come to this place and for her work now . the Rafah crossing with Egypt must open . that be part of this deal , and it will allow 2 . 3 million displace civilian to return home on foot via a coastal road . my hon . friend , I know , recognise the tremendous medical support that be still necessary across the country ; there be many , many child without parent . may I say personally that , as a parent of an adopt child , I be particularly concerned about the many orphan and about how we provide for they in the come day and month . let I place on record my appreciation and gratitude to all the nation — especially Qatar — that have participate in secure this deal . last year , I , along with member from both Houses , be in Qatar during the Doha forum . we all know that there have be many deal and ceasefire that Israel have withdraw from , and that , as the Minister quite rightly say , this be a fragile deal . other than urge Israel , what tangible step will the Government take to ensure that it stick to the deal , instead of go back to the mass killing of innocent Palestinians ? I be with the qatari Foreign Minister on Sunday , and we be in touch overnight . I of course thank he for his tremendous work to get this deal over the line . I think that , while work together over the past few month , we have become friend . there be much that the UK Government can and will continue to do . as I say on the radio last week , diplomacy be fail until it achieve success . the hon . Member will know from his experience and wisdom that success have many father and mother . I welcome the announcement of this long overdue ceasefire today . my thought be with all those who have lose love one on and since 7 October , the family of hostage anxiously await news , and the ten of thousand of family in Gaza who have suffer bereavement , displacement and destitution . my thought be also with all those for whom the announcement be bittersweet ; I think particularly of Rachel Goldberg — the mother of Hersh Goldberg - Polin — whom I meet in East Jerusalem in February . she have campaign with such dignity for the release of her son , who be tragically kill in August . I think , too , of the family in Gaza who be lose their love one even now as this ceasefire be be announce . but while the war have rage in Gaza , the settler have dramatically increase their activity in the west bank , take land that do not belong to they in a systematic attempt to undermine the possibility of a viable palestinian state . as our thought now turn to the peace process ahead and the aim of a two - state solution , what action be the Foreign Secretary take to address illegal settlement ? without a more robust approach , a two - state solution simply can not be achieve . may I pay tribute to my hon . friend ? we have work together over many year . her constituency , in so many way , be not dissimilar from mine , and I know how heart - rending this have be for her constituent . I also know the grace , the manner and the fortitude with which she have represent their interest very strongly within the Labour movement . my hon . friend be absolutely right to centre the west bank , the expansion and the violence that undermine the two - state solution . it be very important for I to be able to discuss these issue with President Abbas . one hugely important role that the UK Government play be in relation to reform and support the Palestinian Authority . that work must continue . we stand by the 1967 border that we think can achieve the two - state solution that be require . we worry about the security situation in the west bank . we worry , too , about the arm and the supply that be come in from malign force , particularly from Iran and some neighbouring state . but we be also in an intense dialogue with the israeli Government about what we think be breach of international law in relation to how the area be properly secure and police . we certainly do not want to see the language , the rhetoric or the behaviour that undermine the possibility of the two - state solution . the return of hostage and the end of daily massacre of civilian be profoundly to be welcome . while the Foreign Secretary have attribute much of the work to diplomat , it be obvious that , whatever we think about he , the critical intervention , by all report , have be that of President - elect Trump . although he have issue public threat to Hamas , he have quite obviously — again by all report — outline a series of consequence and accountability to the israeli Government . therefore , as we look towards the worsen situation in the west bank , can we find a lesson here for british foreign policy . talk , as many of we in this House have urge over the past 14 month , do not work . unless it be follow up with sure and certain consequence and accountability — whether that be bilateral or indeed through international institution — there will be no movement . the right hon . Gentleman follow these issue very closely , and have sometimes be a lone voice on his own side . he will know that the Labour Government have have to take very difficult bilateral decision because of our concern about breach of international humanitarian law . my own reflection be that , in some way , this have be the most challenging of political environment for this conflict , partly because there be an election campaign in the United States for much of 2024 . have we be able to achieve a more bipartisan approach soon , we might have see the pressure that be necessary to bring both party to the deal that we have finally reach . none the less , I be very pleased that the President - elect ' s envoy be able to work with Joe Biden ' s envoy and bring this deal over the line , but it be fragile and I await the decision that will necessarily come from the israeli Security Cabinet at this time . may I thank the Foreign Secretary , the Minister for Development and the Under - Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs , my hon . friend , the Member for Lincoln ( Mr Falconer ) , for all the hard work that they have do both in public and in private to secure today ' s attempt at a ceasefire , to bring the hostage home , and to get as much humanitarian aid in as possible ? Tom Fletcher , the UN under - secretary - general for humanitarian affair , have say today that the deal could have be do a year ago , and that the ferocity of the killing by Israel and Hamas have be " a 21st - century atrocity " . do my right hon . friend agree that there will be last peace in the middle east only if the israeli Government and the international community treat all life — a palestinian child ' s life and an israeli child ' s life — as equal ? I be very grateful to my hon . friend for the work that he have do on these issue both before come to this place and within the context of his new constituency . I thank he very much for bring to mind the role of my dear colleague , the Minister for Development and the Under - Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs , my hon . friend the Member for Lincoln ( Mr Falconer ) . let I thank also previous colleague and shadow colleague with those portfolio . many of we have play a part to ensure that we get to this end . my hon . friend be right , too , that there will be time for a lot of reflection on how we get here and why we get here , but the critical thing at this moment be that the ceasefire hold , that we get beyond the first phase to the second phase , and that we get to the third phase . the third phase , it seem to I , can hold only if we have a political process . that be where attention must be pay to bring about a last peace . I echo those who have thank the Foreign Secretary for the tone that he have take , and the way in which he have reflect the relief of the whole House that there be at last some hope for the family of the hostage , member of which be here today , and for the population of Gaza . he speak of the need for a political process to ensure that the deal succeed , and of the hope that need to be part of eradicate extremism in the middle east . do he agree that this be perhaps the appropriate time that he have talk about for hold out hope of a two - state solution , and that now might be the perfect time for the Government to recognise a state of Palestine ? the hon . Lady be right that a two - state solution be the only way to a stable peace . she know , too , that recognition in itself do not achieve that . it have always be my view , and that of important international partner such as France , that this be an important issue . if we be serious , and achieve that political process , recognition might properly be part of it , to cement the two state that be necessary . this government , and I suspect previous government , fully understand the importance of the UK ' s role in apply that at the appropriate moment , precisely because we have the distinguished responsibility of have a seat on the United Nations Security Council . I know that for the next couple of day everybody in this House will hold in their heart my constituent Sharone , whose father Oded be the old hostage we be await news on ; we hope to hear some this weekend . Oded be 85 . I hold out hope for he , because we do not know what have happen to he . Oded spend his life as a peace activist , campaign for a two - state solution and drive Gazans to hospital . in the spirit of Oded , and the work that he have do , will the Foreign Secretary work with colleague in the Department of Health and Social Care to offer young Palestinians who urgently need medical help the support that they need here in the UK ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for the work that she do , and for our friendship over many year . Oded be a retired israeli journalist who be take from his home . his wife , Yocheved , be also take , but she be release in October 2023 . oded ' s daughter Sharone be a british national who reside in my hon . friend ' s constituency , and she have tirelessly campaign for his release . that be what we want to see over the next period . there be a role for our own medical service where appropriate , and I will continue to work with my right hon . friend the Health Secretary on these issue . my hon . friend should be reassure that he raise the very same issue with I this week on how we can do more in relation to that matter . the Foreign Secretary be right that both Israel and Hamas must ensure that the deal be successful and stick to the term that have be outline , but as the Foreign Secretary come to this House the israeli Prime Minister say that he want to delay a vote in Cabinet because there have be last - minute change to what Hamas be require . have the Foreign Secretary be brief on what those perceive change or accusation be , and could he outline some of they to the House , bear in mind national security implication ? can he tell the House how he will make it clear to both side that it be this deal or no deal , and that if they do not get the deal through we will enter a further period of grave instability in the region , and more life will be lose ? let I be crystal clear : the UK Government ' s position be that the deal be now final and need to be implement . I urge colleague in the israeli Government to do the right thing in the hour available before Sunday , and get on and sign off the deal . Israel deny that it be hold Dr Hussam Abu Safiya , the director of Kamal Adwan hospital , only to confirm that it have in fact detain he . there be report that he be currently be torture in prison . the Foreign Secretary mention that the history of this conflict be litter with miss opportunity . can he take this opportunity clearly to condemn Israel ' s indefinite incommunicado detention of Palestinians , en masse and without charge or trial ? what action be the Government take , in the light of the ceasefire offer on the table , regard their close ally ' s pattern of deadly attack on healthcare , which be clearly part of an intention to destroy and degrade Palestinians as a group ? we have raise those issue with the israeli Government , and do so through the Christmas period . we recognise that there be pain , and that there be concern about international humanitarian law , but all of we in this House have a responsibility to do all that we can to bridge the divide if we be to ensure that the deal hold and the people of Gaza get the respite for which I know the hon . Lady have be campaign for many month . I warmly welcome this ceasefire agreement , and like colleague across the House , I fervently hope that the israeli Cabinet will approve it , but I think we all recognise that , while the ceasefire may bring an end to the current extreme of violence , it will not end the conflict . a number of condition need to be meet for last peace , so will the Foreign Secretary set out a timetable for UK recognition of the state of Palestine , and the concrete step that he will take to end the occupation and ensure that all those who have commit war crime be hold fully accountable ? I can not set out a timetable because the UK Government alone can not be responsible for a timetable that will necessarily involve the israeli Government , the Palestinian Authority , our friend in the United States , and arab partner particularly . it will not be possible for I to set out a timetable on these issue , but I ask the hon . Lady to have faith . I sit down with President Abbas this week to discuss these very issue . on the question that she rightly raise of accountability , that must be a necessary matter for our international court . I have set out from this Dispatch Box why we in this party hold dear the importance of international humanitarian law . I applaud the Foreign Secretary for today ' s very welcome statement . while brick and mortar be crucial to rebuild Gaza , what more can he say about invest in the democratic , judicial and security institution to underpin the movement towards a possible two - state solution ? the United Kingdom have unique capability and experience in governance issue particularly . we have unique partnership with not just Israel but the Palestinian Authority and arab partner , and of course the special relationship with the United States , so we be uniquely position for the next phase . I look forward to discuss these issue with the incoming Secretary of State Senator Rubio in the come month to see what more the United Kingdom can do . may I thank the Foreign Secretary for his statement , and express hope that the ceasefire be agree and implement and that the humanitarian aid we want to see follow on from it ? in that light , do he share my concern about the evidence that UNRWA have be penetrate by Hamas and that the curriculum in school run by UNRWA have propagate hate ? do he agree that the job of reform of UNRWA have not yet be finish and need to be look at so that UNRWA do not act as a place where terrorist can hide and hate can be promote ? I be horrify by the allegation against UNRWA , and it be entirely proper and appropriate that the United Nations get someone of eminence and importance to look at those issue . I know Madame Colonna , and I speak to she follow her review . in re - establish funding to UNRWA , we give £ 1 million to the UN to assist the implementation of her plan . the hon . member be right that the process be not yet complete , but we hear again this morning from United Nations representative that they be reassure that the process be under way and that UNRWA can not and can never be a hiding place for those who commit terrorism . may I bring the Foreign Secretary back to the issue of the recognition of the state of Palestine , because I agree we have to maintain momentum of hope for all concerned ? although he can not give we a timeline today , could he set out the criterion that the Government will use to judge that the time be right for the recognition of the state of Palestine ? my right hon . friend will know that , in some way , this be a moment of peril for that political process . on the one hand , we have the potential for saudi normalisation and two state , for the palestinian people . on the other hand , some in Israel will never be commit to two state and talk instead of annexation . those two be opposite , and that be why the next few month be so important . it would be folly for I to stand at this Dispatch Box and give timetable . obviously , we hope that the israeli Cabinet make a rapid decision to support this ceasefire agreement , but that be only a ceasefire agreement , and one hope it will be rapidly follow by the release of all the hostage and prisoner , as agree . however , there have be some major development over the past two year , particularly on the legal front , where the International Court of Justice have recognise that act of a genocidal nature have take place and have call for israeli withdrawal from the west bank and an end to the settlement policy . will the Foreign Secretary commit the british Government to demand that all the ICJ recommendation be carry out and that Israel have a programme of withdrawal from the west bank and an end to the settlement policy ? there can not be any peace for the palestinian people while they remain under occupation . they have suffer so much , lose so much and lose so many , and the mental scar of the people of Gaza will now be intergenerational . they will need a lot of support to get through this and , above all , international recognition of the state of Palestine . let I begin by recognise the unique way in which the right hon . Gentleman have raise these issue in the House over a lifetime of work and his commitment to justice and accountability in this era . it be right and proper that international humanitarian law be follow and that the international court do their work . let I also be clear that this government do not believe in illegal occupation and be commit to two state . I repeat again : we can not tolerate the violence ; we can not tolerate the expansion . we recommit ourselves to continue to work with civil society on the ground in the west bank and the occupy territory that be document these thing . both this Government and the previous Government have continue to support such organisation over many year . clearly , when we get to that settlement , it will essentially come down to swap and very serious negotiation over that land , on both side . we recognise that , and that be why expansion be so thoroughly unacceptable . the ceasefire be good news . it have be welcome around the world , and it will be welcome by my constituent . it be a time of relief , but also one of great grief for the many ten of thousand of life that have be lose . in November , I visit the west bank and meet the director of UNRWA , who say he have no idea how aid would get into Gaza if and when the israeli ban on UNRWA pass . what more can the Government do to ensure that the ban be lift and aid get into Gaza ? I , too , meet the director of UNRWA in the occupy territory this week . he repeat that to I , and I recognise his assessment . I speak to the israeli Government about this issue , and they say — of course , this be prior to the ceasefire be reach — they believe that other UN agency , non - governmental organisation on the ground and international party could step into the breach . I remind they about their legal responsibility , as an occupy power , about our long - stand concern anyway about humanitarian aid , and about the prospect of undermine an agreement that I have hope would be reach when I be with they on Monday . for all those reason , I do hope that they will reflect and step back from implement this Knesset legislation . the celebration in Gaza that welcome the ceasefire be match only by the relief of the hostage ' family that their love one be finally come home . in the hour that follow , however , score of palestinian civilian be kill , and the israeli Government declare that they will not meet today to ratify this deal in what be an unspeakably cruel blow to those seek peace and the return of the hostage . my right hon . friend the Member for Aberdeen South ( Stephen Flynn ) and the hon . member for Birmingham Perry Barr ( Ayoub Khan ) have both ask this question , but in the absence of a reply , I will ask it again : if Israel do not agree this deal and continue to prosecute this conflict as it have to date , what will the consequence be for Prime Minister Netanyahu and his government ? this be a moment — I say this have meet those hostage family , have pray for the life of Emily Damari in particular , and have meet Palestinians with family in Gaza — where I insist from this Dispatch Box that I will hold out for hope and for that deal be implement on Sunday . I have be really clear about the responsibility that I believe the israeli Government need to meet . we be meet here in this House on a Thursday , so there be day before Sunday . I believe a settlement will be reach . we will continue to work with the current Administration in America and , indeed , the President - elect ' s Administration . he have make his view clear . I will not give in to the cynicism that we will not get to that deal on Sunday and that this process will not begin . I trust the Government will do all they can to ensure that the ceasefire lead to a last peace — a peace base on a two - state solution that address the root cause of the violence and create a future in which the right and security of people in the region be respect . will the Foreign Secretary redouble his effort in urge his counterpart in Israel to grant full access to humanitarian organisation , such as the UN , that be urgently seek to deliver aid in Gaza , as well as to ensure that journalist have unfettere access to report on the situation ? my hon . friend be absolutely right ; journalist now need to be able to get in and report on what be happen on the ground . I thank he for give I a moment to call to mind the many aid worker who have die in this conflict — more than in any other conflict in history — and to thank they for their humanitarian effort . I repeat again that part of the settlement that come out of the second world war be that there be deconfliction for aid worker work in the most severe of circumstance . that be the expectation of the international community , and we deplore the fact that it have not be meet so egregiously in this most horrendous of war . I be grateful to the Foreign Secretary for his statement , and I also pay tribute to all those who have help to bring about this agreement to stop the killing . I pray that Israel accept and honour the agreement and subsequent stage . the Foreign Secretary speak about darkness , and 7 October be indeed a dark day for innocent Israelis and Palestinians , and for humanity . however , it would be unjust not to acknowledge that the Palestinians have be suffer dark day every day for over 75 year , with the UK and the international community turn a blind eye — and many aid and abet . we all welcome the announcement of this ceasefire to suspend hostility in Gaza . although we hope and pray that the temporary pause will free all hostage on both side , save palestinian and israeli life , and alleviate some of the unspeakable suffering that the israeli military have inflict on Gaza , it mark the beginning , not the end , of effort to restore health , dignity , justice and freedom to the palestinian people , who have suffer beyond word . will the Foreign Secretary confirm that the UK will oppose any attempt by Israel to annex or settle part of Gaza or further part of the west bank ? will he confirm the UK ' s commitment to end the long - stand root cause of violence and humanitarian need in the occupy Palestinian Territories , include Israel ' s illegal occupation , blockade and widespread violation of international law ? I suspect that the hon . Gentleman and I might sometimes disagree on matter of politic , but I have always respect he in the short time that he have be in this House . I feel again today the humility and faith that he bring to the strength of his question . let I be absolutely clear : we stand oppose to expansion , to the violence that we see , and to any talk of annexation , which would breach international UN resolution that successive UK government have support . he be right that it be the case for some year — particularly in the period after the Abraham accord — that this House have stop talk about a two - state solution , but I think Members across the House recognise that that be the only way out of this crisis . I , too , thank the Foreign Secretary for his statement , particularly his word about how we break out of the cycle of violence , which many of we worry will be replicate in future , and move towards a peaceful future . this be a bitter - sweet deal , in many way , because the reality be that overnight we have see Hamas put their uniform back on , wave their rifle and celebrate . they be still there . one of their leader say just this morning that they would do 7 October all over again ; the international community must unite to ensure that they can not , and to free the people of Gaza from Hamas . what step can the Government take to change the reality for Hamas by stop weapon from Iran and funding from state such as Qatar , and to promote genuine soul - search and reflection among international agency on the ground , to ensure that they be do everything they can not to repeat mistake or turn a blind eye to collaboration with Hamas ? it be important to continue to remember the tremendous trauma in Israel as a result of 7 October — the bad atrocity for the jewish people since the Holocaust . it be important to remember , in the wake of this deal , which we want to see over the line , that , yes , Hamas fighter have be on the street fire their rifle and say that they would do it again , and that do not lead to a context in which the israeli people feel safe in their own land . my hon . friend be absolutely right that Iran continue to destabilise the region through its political , financial and military support for Hamas and other partner in the region . very sadly , if we do not do all we can to come together here in the United Kingdom , play our role internationally and get to that political process , it be my judgment that in 25 year ' time , another generation of politician , include some young politician in this House , will be here again debate the same issue — more violence , more pain , more loss of life , and still no two state . I thank the Foreign Secretary for his sombre tone and for his soft but strong word — we all appreciate they . I very much welcome the fact that a ceasefire be imminent and that the hostage will soon be return home . will the Foreign Secretary outline what discussion have take place with our american ally to ensure that aid get to where it be need in a safe and concerted effort , and what do he imagine our role to be in ongoing negotiation to support Israel and find a peaceful way forward ? I be grateful to the hon . Gentleman , who be always on top of these issue , particularly terrorism , conflict and peace . I have work very closely with the US Secretary of State , Antony Blinken , and I pay tribute to he — I suspect for the last time — for all his work . I send he a message last night say what a pleasure it be to see he stand behind Joe Biden . More than many , I know — as do my predecessor — how much work he put into get this agreement over the line . I also know how important it be that President - elect Trump and his team step up in the last few day . there be a critical role for the UK for the reason that I have set out , and we will play that role . it have be a long and painful road to get to this point , but today ' s welcome news of a ceasefire deal be finally a sliver of hope . it have always be clear that the release of hostage and a ceasefire be necessary step to pull the middle east from this abyss , which have cruelly take so many life . I will touch on the point that the Foreign Secretary just make about another generation of politician , include young politician in this House , debate the two - state solution in 25 year ' time . I have say to he many time that the recognition of a palestinian state be not a by - product but the route to a resolution . will he be brave , will he be bold , and will he , so that we be not here in 25 year ' time debate the two state - solution , recognise the state of Palestine much quick than that ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for the way she have champion these issue , press they again and again , on behalf of her constituent . there be a real dilemma on palestinian recognition . there be some who want recognition essentially because they believe that two state be year away and will never be achieve , and they want the UK Government to say , " we will do it now " — to put a marker in the sand , despite the fact that it be year away and will never be achieve . there be other who recognise the importance of the UK ' s role in relation to our responsibility as a permanent member of the UN Security Council , and therefore understand that we will do that , but we will do it when we know that it will happen and it be in sight . this be one of those critical moment , and believe I , I will play my part . yesterday on the street of Gaza , mother come out to celebrate the news of the impending peace deal . today , many of those mother be crouch over love one , as news come in of a further 73 Palestinians have be kill . that is 73 add on to the thousand and thousand who have already be kill , but when it come to the number of Palestinians dead , that be all it seem to be — a number . do the Foreign Secretary agree that no justice and no meaningful peace can be achieve if we continue to allow the cry of the oppress to go unheard ? I ask this not as a political rival , but as a fellow human being . the palestinian people and , indeed , the family of the hostage have no more time for rhetoric , platitude and word . what be we go to do to ensure that this peace deal go ahead and justice be give beyond word , so that no more innocent blood be shed ? the palestinian cause be a just cause , which be why we recommit to two state . you can hold in your heart the pain of the israeli people and the plight of those hostage and their family , and at the same time , you can hold in your heart the awful damage , pain and suffering that this have work on Gaza , with well over 45 , 000 palestinian people have lose their life . you can hold those two thing at the same time , which of course be what the UK Government attempt to do as they try to bring about conciliation and uphold international humanitarian law . ultimately , we want to get to a process that bring about genuine peace , where these two country can live side by side with security and peace . I thank my right hon . friend for his statement . the news of a possible deal be very welcome indeed , and I associate myself with the hope of colleague across this House that the hostage will be release and return , and that humanitarian aid will flood into Gaza as soon as possible . we know that the only way to ensure a last peace be that two - state solution , so can my right hon . friend outline what step the Government will take to support the creation of an international fund for israeli - palestinian peace ? we absolutely support that , and we will continue to work towards it . I join in with the sentiment of relief and hope for peace after a horrific 15 - month - long ordeal . however , a ceasefire can not take away from the fact that Israel be on trial for genocide and its leader have arrest warrant in their name for their crime commit against the people of Gaza . a ceasefire do not change that fact ; justice and accountability must be realise in the face of some of the most horrific war crime of our time . will the Minister therefore confirm that the Government will stand by their commitment to treaty under international law and uphold the requirement of the arrest warrant already issue ? we be signatory to the treaty of Rome , and we will comply with our legal obligation — not just because we should , but because we believe in they . will the Foreign Secretary confirm that the Government will not lift the limited ban on arm sale to Israel until he or another Minister have come back to this House and explain why the danger of those arm be abuse have recede ? as my hon . friend know , that be a quasi - legal process that be go through with all sobriety , examine the fact on the ground . the ban be in place at this time ; arm be not currently be send to Israel under export licence , for reason that have be discuss at the Dispatch Box for many month . I suspect that until we get to a secure and stable Gaza , it be unlikely . the fighting have get to stop . I welcome the news of a ceasefire deal after 15 month of devastation , destruction and loss of life . the release of hostage be vital , ensure their safety and swift return to their family . there have be unimaginable suffering , and the ceasefire must be a turning point . it be imperative that the UK leverage our diplomatic influence to ensure stability while urgently step up humanitarian aid in Gaza ; food , medicine and fuel must reach those who desperately need they without delay . can the Secretary of State tell the House what diplomatic contribution the UK will make to ensure the ceasefire ' s stability when we move towards the latter and more fragile stage of a multi - stage agreement ? I pray in aid some of my statement early in this session . rise — order . I urge member to make their question short , or we will simply not get everybody in . we all hope that the ceasefire happen and that it hold , and we all resolve that if it do , never again — never again by anyone . for the most part , that mean accountability , which be where the ICC and ICJ come in . journalist , forensic expert and rescue team must be guarantee unrestricted access to investigate mass grave , locate the miss and document the atrocity crime commit by Israel , so will the Foreign Secretary commit to support this ? otherwise impunity , not accountability , will reign , which will prevent we from make sure that what we have see do not happen again . we continue to support non - governmental organisation and to call for journalist to be allow in . of course , it be important that the appropriate authority properly document what have happen and that , where necessary , people can be hold accountable . the ceasefire deal give family in Israel and Palestine , as well as their relative in my constituency , hope for long - last peace and security . however , there can be no security without accountability , and there be no accountability without scrutiny — scrutiny , for example , to ensure that the funding the Government have pledge for UNRWA reach its intended destination . this war have be the deadly on record for journalist , so what can the Government do to ensure that all journalist in Palestine , include my former colleague , can do their job without fear for their life ? my hon . friend have represent the interest of those journalist very well in her question . I repeat again that I deplore the number of journalist who have lose their life . it be important that any democracy engage in conflict of this kind allow journalist to cover what have truly happen . as we head now to this ceasefire and the stability that be require , the time have come , I hope , for journalist from all corner of the globe to be let in . last November , the International Criminal Court issue arrest warrant for israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and former Defence Minister Yoav Gallant for crime against humanity and war crime , include target civilian and use starvation as a weapon of war . the british public deserve clarity , so I will ask again : will the Foreign Secretary confirm that should Benjamin Netanyahu step on british soil , he would be immediately arrest — yes or no ? I say to the hon . Lady , as I think have be say before , that we have a legal process in this country be that to come to pass , and that process be important . ultimately , it will be a decision for our court , so it be important that , from this Dispatch Box , I leave that matter for they . however , I have say in term that we be a signatory to the statute of Rome , not just because we be but because we believe in it . therefore , as the hon . Lady would expect , this Government will comply with the law if that be to come to pass . I know that I speak for everyone in my constituency when I say that after so much death and unthinkable horror , this ceasefire — this peace — offer hope for a long - term political solution , security for the people of Gaza and of Israel , a two - state solution and a sustainable peace . do the Foreign Secretary agree that what we now need be a flood of aid to stop civilian suffer now in Gaza ? also , I know it be very early day , but what hope do he have for a new normalisation deal between Israel and Saudi Arabia go forward ? I be grateful for the question . have speak to the saudi arabian Foreign Minister at length on Sunday and to the israeli Foreign Minister at length on Sunday as well , it be my sincere hope that we do get that normalisation deal . there be many step before we get there , but I think this be a critical moment , and I really hope we can achieve it . after such unimaginable suffering , I welcome the Foreign Secretary ' s statement . however , I recognise the fragility of this moment — not only the fragility of make a decision around this deal , but the fragility of life in Gaza , where the suffering continue at this moment . will he ensure that we provide the very good medical support , give that many specialty no long exist in Gaza , and that we use the expertise in our country to send team into the region and indeed into Gaza to ensure that people with disease and infection and those who need urgent surgery have the very good service ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to focus on medical support . we will continue to support UK - Med , and we make a decision to give it more fund when we be just a few day into office . half a million people have receive essential healthcare as a result of that funding , and UK - Med have support over 300 , 000 people across Gaza . it be hugely important work , and I suspect we will have more to say in the come day about what more we can do . I thank my right hon . friend for his very measured statement . I have meet dozen of constituent in Rushcliffe who I know will wholeheartedly welcome yesterday ' s news . however , I have receive a lot of email specifically about the decimation of medical facility in the northern part of Gaza . can I ask the Foreign Secretary what step be likely to be take to ensure immediate improvement to healthcare access as a result of this week ' s announcement ? I be grateful to my hon . friend . for the reason I have set out , security will be essential if the aid be to get in and if international partner be to be reassure , so that the reconstruction of hospital can properly begin . I pay tribute to my right hon . friend , and indeed to the Under - Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs , my hon . friend the Member for Lincoln ( Mr Falconer ) , who have play such an important role in work tirelessly for justice . follow on from the question from my hon . friend the Member for Liverpool Wavertree ( Paula Barker ) about recognition of the state of Palestine , what role will the british Government play in create the condition that mean a two - state solution be finally in reach and we could declare that we recognise the state of Palestine ? I be very grateful to my hon . friend for the question . the role that we must play be the critical juncture between phase 2 and then phase 3 . we will only really get to phase 3 if there be a proper political solution . I think the United Kingdom have a particular role to play because of our relationship with all the party , and our unique role on the United Nations Security Council alongside France . she be absolutely right that there must be a process , that we must engage in that process and that recognition be a key part of the process . ultimately , however , that must lead to a two - state solution . let I say , finally , that in my discussion at the weekend in Saudi Arabia , it be very clear to I that we be no long in a place where Gulf colleague would satisfy themselves with some promise that feel year and year away , or generation away . we be really talk about the immediate lifetime of many parliamentarian in this House at this time , and this be therefore a very critical issue . now really be the moment when we all do need some hope , as the task of help people to rebuild their home and community be truly daunting . to allow for reconstruction of hospital , school and home to take place , the supply of construction material into Gaza will need to happen on a huge scale . can I please ask the Foreign Secretary what discussion be take place right now to help facilitate that access for important material ? my hon . Friend ask a very good question . the World Bank have be do a lot of thinking about that , with a rapid need assessment of the material that be now necessary . as the Foreign Secretary have say , this be a glimmer of light for the hostage , their family and civilian in Gaza — many of they child live in hell — and all our thought be with they . we have speak a lot about the importance of access for humanitarian aid , but can I ask the Foreign Secretary about volume ? can he update we on the funding for the UN humanitarian appeal , whether we be consider an uplift in our aid , and what pressure we be put on other UN member state to make sure they play their role in not only provide that aid , but push for access ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to put on record the issue of volume . at the moment , the agreement be for 600 or so truck . that be ambitious , and the situation on the ground will need to change quite a lot if that be to be achieve . the need be absolutely there . the UN must play its part , but I think some of the decision that may come on UNRWA would fundamentally undermine that . I think commercial truck have to come back in , and the security have to be there . clearly , what we want to see — and it be here in the deal — be Israel be able to draw back , which raise further issue about security . that be why I say that this deal be fragile and that negotiation continue and there be much still to do . she be absolutely right that we have to see the volume , or I think the people of Gaza will say that there have be lot of fine word , but thing have not actually change very much on the ground . now that there be hope of a ceasefire , will the Secretary of State redouble his effort to seek justice for the family of my constituent John Chapman , whom he mention in his statement , who be murder by the IDF last April when work for the World Central Kitchen ? will he meet I to discuss what the UK Government can do to hold the israeli Government to account for their action ? I be very grateful to my hon . friend for ask that question . I raise this issue with the israeli Foreign Minister at the weekend . we do want to see accountability , and we do want to see a process from the Military Advocate General in Israel . the loss of life break our heart . I have spend time with the family that have suffer so much as a result of the atrocity against World Central Kitchen , when there be a tremendous loss of life . there must be justice , there must be accountability and there must be a process . it be now for the Military Advocate General in Israel to do that , and we will continue to press this issue . of course , I or the Minister for the middle east will meet he and his constituent . we all welcome the announcement of the possible ceasefire and hope that the israeli Cabinet ratify the agreement . the toll on civilian have be horrific : over 46 , 000 palestinian civilian , include child , have be kill , and 1 , 200 Israelis be kill on 7 October and many hostage family be hope that their family member be return . I , too , pay tribute to british citizen John Chapman , James Henderson and James Kirby , who be kill deliver aid in Gaza . the EU have announce € 120 million in new aid for Gaza , so will the UK announce a further package of aid soon ? I agree with the Foreign Secretary that Palestinians must be able to return home safely . what role will the UK play in that ? I thank my hon . friend for her question . we will be make a further assessment of the humanitarian need and what more we can do in the come week , give the change circumstance . let we get this deal over the line , and let we assess where the UK can play a particular role alongside other partner . it be important that we co - ordinate , and it be important for I to be in Saudi Arabia with Kaja Kallas , the new High Representative of the EU , because we be able to travel together and to discuss these very same issue . in addition to the appalling suffering of civilian due to this conflict , for far too long there have be a sense of hopelessness in the region , which be mirror by a sense of hopelessness here about what we can all do practically to help secure peace and rebuild Gaza . do my right hon . friend agree that british company , particularly those in construction , and NGOs should be at the vanguard of the Herculean task of rebuild Gaza ? as we get — we hope — towards phase 3 on the future , do he agree that make more information available about the support we can provide in this area will help the peace process , because reconstruction be vital ? I agree wholeheartedly with my hon . friend . on behalf of so many of my constituent in Ealing Southall , may I wholeheartedly welcome this news about a potential ceasefire in Gaza and the return of the hostage ? I thank the Foreign Secretary and his ministerial team for all their hard work to get we to this moment of hope , but this be only a beginning . can the Foreign Secretary tell I how he will use our hard - won experience of broker a last peace in Northern Ireland through the Good Friday agreement to help achieve a two - state solution and long - term peace , security and prosperity for the people of both Palestine and Israel ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for mention Northern Ireland and the essential role that be play in particular by the last Labour Government . she will no doubt have notice that the new National Security Adviser be Jonathan Powell , who play such an important role in that . our National Security Adviser always do a lot behind the scene on these issue , and I look forward to work with he on this issue . the Foreign Secretary be right when he recognise that this ceasefire , although fragile , offer a real glimmer of hope . he be also right to emphasise the need to go far to ensure a two - state solution with a safe and secure Israel live alongside a viable sovereign palestinian state . will he set out what he see as the next step in get we to the ultimate goal of a last peace in the region ? as have be say , there be two possibility here . one be a situation in which Israel do not withdraw from Gaza and there be still a lot of fighting . displace people would vaguely be able to return to their home , but we would not see the reconstruction or the international community able to come back in , because there would be no guarantee that the effort they put in will not be destroy in another 10 or 20 year ' time . the other possibility be that we get to phase 3 and we see not just a ceasefire , but a political process that bring about stability and ultimately peace , and alongside that we see saudi normalisation with Israel and the prospect of two state . we all welcome the news of the ceasefire deal after 15 month of devastating conflict and suffering in Gaza . the Foreign Secretary know how important the recognition of Palestine and the two - state solution be to my constituent in Luton South and South Bedfordshire . do he agree that in our Government ' s commitment to a two - state solution , Gaza must form part of a future palestinian state , with no reduction in the size of its territory , no ongoing occupation of Gaza and no forced displacement of Palestinians from Gaza ? I be grateful for the work that my hon . friend have do in her constituency and the manner in which she lobby hard on these issue when I be shadow Foreign Secretary , which she continue to do now . I can confirm that Gaza must be part of the two state and a home for the palestinian people . it be with hope and fear that we await news of this ceasefire deal , and that will be feel particularly strongly by the family of the hostage . we have hear of the british hostage — of Emily Damari , Avinatan or , Oded Lifschitz and Eli Sharabi — and the work of their family . for they , until they be hold their love one , this deal will not be real or do . can the Foreign Secretary please assure they that at each and every stage of this deal , he will be press for the hostage ' release , so that we can deliver that for their family , bring this war to an end , and bring the hostage and their family together ? Emily Damari be a british national . she spend her 28th birthday in captivity . she be take from her home in the Kfar Aza kibbutz . Emily enjoy watch football and be a Tottenham Hotspur fan . I keep she in my heart every single day . I have a plastic flower from her mother in my office remind I of her plight . I pray and hope that I see her emerge in the come day . Oded Lifschitz be a retired israeli journalist and we hold out a torch for he . Eli Sharabi be a family man , and his wife Lianne , a british citizen , and his daughter Noiya and Yahel be murder on 7 October . Yossi Sharabi be kill in captivity last year , and we pray for his family at this time . Avinatan or be a 31 - year - old man , and therefore will not be in the first phase of this activity , but we want to see he free as we get to the second and third phase . human right organisation such as Gisha , the Association for Civil Rights in Israel and Physicians for Human Rights - Israel have be work hard to get more aid into Gaza since the beginning of the conflict . what step be the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office take to support human right group to help rebuild Gaza and the life of the palestinian people ? my hon . friend be right to raise human right and human right defender , particularly those on the ground . she should be assure that the UK under this Government continue to fund those important organisation . they be part of the exercise of allow very vulnerable people to have their right advocate for and their dignity uphold in the most horrendous of circumstance . those organisation be also part of the accountability mechanism we have sign up to and believe in . my right hon . friend be right that this be not a day for celebration ; it be a day for prayer — prayer that this deal be see through and prayer that hostage and ordinary Palestinians get a chance to rebuild their life after the atrocity and horror of the past 15 month . my right hon . friend be right to say that this peace deal be fragile , but it be also right to say that many in the world , include in my community , think that the world community ' s grasp on humanitarian value have be fragile these past 15 month . we have fail the hostage , fail the Palestinians and fail in the quest for peace by take so long to do that . he will know that this issue be important to the community I represent . nearly two year ago , the Foreign Secretary have lunch with I and some of my constituent , and we talk about previous crisis where we have solve the crisis but give up on the peace . what reassurance can he give we that this time it will be different and the British Government will lead the way , once we get this deal in place , to ensure that there be a two - state solution and that dignity and respect be give to Israel and Palestine ? eighty year on from the second world war , my hon . friend be right . he be a dear friend , and I know his constituency well , have spend seven year of my life live in the great city of Peterborough . there be no doubting that when we look back on those 80 year , there be key moment that shake the foundation of the rule of law that man and woman in this country fight for . I suspect that people will look back on this war as one of those hugely challenging moment . People who believe in democracy recognise that we be here as parliamentarian in one of the great home of democracy to fight to keep hope alive . the palestinian cause be a just cause . the plight of the jewish people be also a just cause , and a homeland for they I think be right . we have get to achieve that peace . just as I have for many year campaign for peace in country such as Northern Ireland and South Africa , we can get peace in the middle east if we redouble our effort and the whole of the international community stand true to international humanitarian law . More than two hour after I start this statement , I be grateful for the opportunity this afternoon . I thank the Foreign Secretary for a long , two - hour statement . Royal Assent I have to notify the House , in accordance with the Royal Assent Act 1967 , that his Majesty have signify his Royal Assent to the follow act : Lords Spiritual ( Women ) Act 2015 ( Extension ) Act 2025 Commonwealth Parliamentary Association and International Committee of the Red Cross ( Status ) Act 2025 Financial Assistance to Ukraine Act 2025 . Covid - 19 Inquiry I would like to make a statement on the Government ' s response to module 1 of the covid inquiry . in July last year , Baroness Hallett publish her report from the first module of the inquiry . it conclude that the UK be not as prepared as it should have be for the pandemic and that more could and should have be do . in my statement to the House immediately follow the publication of her report , I commit to respond in full within six month . before I turn to the Government ' s response , I want to place on record once again my thank to Baroness Hallett and her team for the work they have do so far in the inquiry . I also pay tribute to the family and friend who lose love one during the pandemic , some of whom be with we in the Gallery . early this week I visit the national covid memorial wall just across the river from here . I be grateful to the friend of the wall who have so lovingly care for it and maintain it over the past few year . as I say in my statement in July , the Government ' s first responsibility be to keep the public safe . that be why since we be elect , we have take step to strengthen the UK ' s resilience . I announce a review of national resilience . work on that review be proceed , and I will update the House on its conclusion in the spring . the Prime Minister have establish a single Cabinet Committee for resilience , which I chair , which meet to ensure clear and rigorous ministerial oversight . we have adopt the 2023 biological security strategy to protect the UK and our interest from significant biological risk . in April , the new UK Resilience Academy will be launch . it will train over 4 , 000 people in resilience and emergency role every year and help they plan for and manage a range of crisis , include pandemic . I should also acknowledge , as I do in my first statement back in July , that in some area these improvement build on work carry out by the previous Administration . the improvement that we have make to our resilience have be put to the test over the last six month . those include the Prime Minister chair a number of emergency Cobra meeting to address the violent disorder that occur over the summer and work across our four nation to anticipate and contain clade 1 mpox case in the UK . since July , we have also send two emergency alert to provide advice to the public in life - threaten situation . during Storm Darragh , because of a very rare red — danger to life — warning , an alert be send to over three million people in affected region . more recently , we issue a very localise warning over flood danger . the Government will carry out a full national test of the emergency alert system later this year . that will ensure that the system be function correctly , should it need to be deploy in an emergency . the covid module 1 inquiry find that year of under - investment mean that pandemic planning be not a sufficient priority , that our health service be already suffer and beyond capacity , and that there be high level of illness and health inequality . all of that mean that the state be ill - prepared to manage a crisis on this scale . therefore , apart from the specific recommendation , deliver on the Government ' s mission — particularly in this context , build a national health service fit for the future — will contribute in important way to the UK ' s resilience . pandemic planning and resilience be about not just specific resilience measure but ensure the underlie fundamental of our country be strong . I thank the devolved government for their co - operation in prepare our response today . we will continue to work together for the safety of the community we serve . I turn to specific . there be three new commitment that I wish to highlight . first , the inquiry recommend that the UK Government and devolve government should together hold a regular UK - wide pandemic response exercise . we agree and will be undertake a full national pandemic response exercise later this year . it will be the first of its kind in nearly a decade . it will test the UK ' s capability , plan , protocol and procedure in the event of another major pandemic . it will be lead by senior Ministers , involve thousand of participant and run across all region and nation of the UK . alongside the Health Secretary , I have write to all Cabinet Ministers to ask for their commitment to full participation . the exercise will take place in the autumn over a number of day . the Government will communicate the finding and lesson of the exercise as recommend by the covid - 19 inquiry . secondly , the inquiry find that the pandemic have a disproportionate impact on vulnerable group and continue to affect many people in those community . a new national vulnerability map create by the Cabinet Office with the Office for National Statistics will geographically map population number of those who may be vulnerable in a crisis . it will do that by share datum include age , disability , ethnicity , and whether someone be receive care . the map will improve the Government ' s understanding of the scale and location of disproportionately impact population ahead of and during crisis and enable targeted local support when require . thirdly , as the inquiry remind we , the risk we face be change more quickly than ever before , and we live in an increasingly volatile world . it therefore recommend a well approach to risk assessment across the board , which we accept . today , I be publish an update national risk register : the public - face version of the national security risk assessment , which provide business and the voluntary and community sector with the late information about the risk they face to support their planning , preparation and response . we will ensure that it continue to be update regularly . a significant proportion of the risk will be subject to reassessment over the next few month , and we will publish a far update risk register as need once the process be complete . I want to mention two further recommendation where the Government accept the underlie objective and propose to take they forward in specific way . first , the inquiry recommend Cabinet Office leadership for whole - system civil emergency in the UK . we agree with that , as for whole - system emergency such as a pandemic , the centre of Government need to play a lead role . but for low - scale emergency , we believe that the lead Department model still have value . it remain important for Departments with the day - to - day responsibility for an issue to lead the work to identify serious risk and ensure that the right planning , response and recovery arrangement be in place . therefore , in some circumstance we will retain the lead Government Department model , because , in those case , responsibility and oversight should sit with the body with the good understanding , relationship and mechanism for delivery to identify and address risk . there will be an enhanced role for the Cabinet Office to improve preparedness and resilience for large - scale catastrophic risk . secondly , on the question of independent input into whole - system civil emergency preparedness and resilience , we agree with the need for independent strategic advice and challenge , include the use of so - call red team . we be establish eight expert advisory group to combat group - think in our understanding of risk . alongside that , through the crisis management excellence programme we will increase training in red teaming . we want to work with the local resilience forum that exist around the country who provide critical knowledge and expertise . the Government be also committed to introduce a duty of candour on public authority as a catalyst for a change culture in the public sector to improve transparency and accountability . we also welcome and will draw on the expertise of multidisciplinary pandemic science institute that provide world - lead academic and scientific expertise such as the excellent Pandemic Institute in Liverpool , which I be pleased to visit yesterday . in the end , the Government must remain responsible and accountable for the policy and resource allocation decision they take , but we believe that the external input of those body can add value to that decision making . the impact of the covid - 19 pandemic be unprecedented in modern memory . it cause the loss of far too many life . my thought , and the thought of the whole government , continue to be with all those who lose love one during the pandemic . many of they feel not just grief but anger that , as Baroness Hallett ' s report sadly confirm , the country be not as prepare as it should have be . my Department will monitor the implementation of the commitment make in response to the covid - 19 inquiry . in all this , we must remember that the next crisis may not be the same as the last . there be a need for flexibility in our planning and learning , and we will build that into what we do . the Government also remain committed to engage fully with the inquiry , and await Baroness Hallett ' s finding and recommendation in subsequent module report as she continue her important work . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Minister . I thank the Minister for advance sight of his statement , and I join his tribute to Baroness Hallett for her report . we all know how challenging the pandemic be . sadly , far too many life be lose — I pay tribute to all the victim from across our country and the world . that be why the Conservative Government put in place the inquiry , and former Ministers have be co - operate with its work — I thank the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster for acknowledge that . it be clear from the inquiry ' s investigation and finding so far that response time and process be too slow and disjointed — we recognise that — but it be also clear that there be an incredibly challenging process and no easy answer . Module 1 examine our country ' s pandemic resilience and preparedness , so I will focus on that . the Government ' s response have identify a number of overarch implementation from the module recommendation . we be broadly supportive of the Government ' s direction . as the inquiry report note , it be important to strengthen cross - governmental communication and data sharing , and communication and co - ordination between devolved administration . I appreciate that the Government recognise that and be take forward the recommendation to ensure that the Cabinet Office have a clear and strong role in crisis and resilience co - ordination . the Government have clearly signal their intention to build on the work start under the last Government , who put together the resilience directorate within the Cabinet Office with the goal of ensure clear accountability and leadership for long - term resilience and crisis planning . I hope that the step that the Government have set out will successfully build on that . I be also thankful that they be build on the last government ' s work to lay the foundation of the resilience academy , and I look forward to track that progress . it be important to note that the Government intend to strengthen the articulation of requirement for resilience and emergency training qualification . I be thankful that they be build on the work that we implement to establish a new national exercise programme , and be plan a full pandemic exercise for this year . importantly , we need to recognise that the risk that we will face will be dynamic , because we do not know what the future will hold . I hope that the pandemic exercise will involve cross - cut segment of microbial resistance and technology infrastructure , which will be key challenge that continue to grow in importance . the Government have also emphasise the holistic work that can be conduct across all type of organisation as a result of the highly transparent risk register that we first publish in 2023 . I appreciate that they be set out their intention to build on that , and offer a wide range of scenario and framework to the register in future . however , they do not seem to fully recognise that there be far too much complication in the system , which risk mask fundamental matter of cross - governmental co - ordination with political measure . I recognise in the Government ' s response the desire to ensure independent input into the whole - system civil emergency preparedness and resilience and , in do so , establish a number of expert advisory group , but I caution they that that must be back up by real accountability and progress tracking , to ensure that the work conduct by those team be enact transparently and for clear reason . they must not be just talk shop . the Government have announce a significant number of review , consultation and taskforce , but without real accountability and framework clarity , they risk be only a temporary solution to long - term issue . that be a particular concern when it come to national resilience . although we support the Government ' s direction , I want to raise a couple of question . on recommendation 3 , the Minister mention mapping , which be very welcome , but will he expand a little on the combined impact of different vulnerability for certain group and how they can be overlay in that mapping process ? on recommendation 4 and 5 on the whole system emergency strategy and , crucially , that datum element , be there datum to support the strategy ? what confidence do he have in that at the moment ? will he use the UK Biobank for that ? there be critical issue around academic freedom as we look into very complex issue , and overlap issue within community across the country . on recommendation 6 , what response have the Minister have so far from the devolved government ? he say that they have be very positive , but could he go a little far ? in response to recommendation 9 , the red group sound good , but I be a little worried when he say , " we be establish eight advisory group to combat group - think . " that sound a little like a tautology . I want to ensure that those group will be properly independent and that the Government be challenge on their plan . on recommendation 7 , there be an important point around report back the finding of the nationwide investigation . on the publishing and timeliness , the report ask for three - month publication — will the Minister speak to that ? the Cabinet Office say that it be scope and test solution to resolve multi - agency report . will he speak to that ? finally — thank you for your indulgence , Madam Deputy Speaker — we must not lose sight of the fact that there be shift landscape , and our response will be a long - term thing . I appreciate the Government ' s response today , but they have not yet respond to last year ' s House of Lords Statutory Inquiries Committee report on reform the process by which public inquiry be conduct . that be slightly overdue , so if the right hon . Gentleman could update we on progress on that , I would be most grateful . we must ensure that the tracker be in place so that on issue such as this , the Horizon scandal or the infected blood scandal , we be always in the right place . I be grateful for the right hon . Gentleman ' s response and for his broad support for our response , include on the resilience directorate academy and the full pandemic exercise . let I turn to his question . on mapping , the data be get well . the Government ' s ability to gather and use datum have improve over time , and it be important that we do that as well as we can . datum have be describe as the new oil , and it be important that the Government , which have access to good datum around the country , use that to map vulnerability and to make sure that the next crisis do not expose crack in our society , as be the case the last time around . the right hon . Gentleman ask about work with the devolved government . around those table , people be not always of the same political party or outlook , but in my experience in the last six month , the spirit have be good and one of co - operation . it have be underpin by the common understanding that , on an issue such as public protection , the public do not really care about political difference . they expect all of we , whatever our political stripe , to work together for their safety and the common good . that be what we should do . red teaming and challenge be important , but they have to be put into context . the right hon . Gentleman mention accountability ; I say in my statement that accountability for policy and resource allocation decision ultimately have to rest with the Government . we be all for challenge and all for independent input into that , but at the end of the day , that be where the accountability lie and that be who have to take the resource allocation decision . we will publish the finding of the pandemic exercise . I want to see inquiry come to conclusion more quickly so that victim of injustice can get justice more quickly . the final thing I say in response to the right hon . Gentleman be that he be right to say that the future may not be the same as the past ; that be why flexibility have to be build into all this . while listen to my right hon . friend ' s statement and the shadow Minister ' s response , I have be reflect on those friend who sadly die during the pandemic . I be sure everybody in the House will have their own experience . my right hon . Friend mention the need for a new national pandemic planning exercise . after the last one , one of the press report suggest that a recommendation be for senior Ministers to act quickly if a pandemic hit we . can he confirm that one of the way in which improvement will be make in our preparation on his watch will be that senior Ministers will be ready and will make decision in a timely fashion ? that will all be test in the exercise we have plan . past planning exercise have sometimes plan for the wrong thing — that be the danger . that be why I say all the time that we have to make sure that we learn from what happen throughout the pandemic of a few year ago , but not make the assumption that the next pandemic or the next crisis will be exactly the same . that be what we have to do . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the finding of the inquiry be a harsh confirmation of what we already know . they be that the UK be woefully unprepared for the pandemic : the focus be wrong , the leadership be lack and the lesson from past crisis be not learn . I be sure I speak for all hon . member when I say that our heart remain with those who lose love one during that tragic time , and I thank the family member who be in the Public Gallery today . to do right by they , crucially , we must ensure that this be a turning point . it be essential that the new Government take swift and decisive action to prepare for next time . I therefore welcome the Minister ' s announcement of a pandemic response exercise this autumn ; however , will that be a one - off or be further exercise plan and , if they be , how frequently ? as well as the different , more proactive approach to disease outbreak preparedness that Baroness Hallett cite in her report , we must invest in public health , rather than simply throw money at crisis when they materialise . one of the key finding be that health inequality and a less healthy population have leave the nation less resilient . do the Minister agree that public health should be a priority and that the public health grant , with a proportion set aside for those experience the bad health inequality to co - produce plan for their community , would be a step in the right direction ? we need to help more people live more year of their life in good health . when I think back to those covid year , I think of the appalling loneliness and isolation of those in hospital or in care home . do the Government agree that patient and care home resident should be give a new legal right to maintain family contact in all health and care setting ? finally , on resilience forum , will the Minister confirm what funding plan there be in future for resilience forum ? I be aware before Christmas that there be some lack of certainty about that — certainly , that be what I be hear from my own Sussex resilience forum . we can not risk our country not be ready for the future , and those be important question . the most fundamental thing , apart from specific recommendation or specific change , be the underlie strength of the country and its service . that be true nowhere more than in the national health service . that be why the Budget , which have be attack a lot , put in the resource to begin to turn the health service around . we can have the forum , the structure and the process , but the underlie strength of the country be the most important thing . the hon . Lady ask about the exercise this autumn . I very much hope it will not be the last ; the inquiry recommend that they happen on a regular basis . it will be the first for many year and we want to make sure we learn as much from it as possible . in term of funding for local resilience forum , they play an important role and we be able to put some increase resource into local government in the next financial year . that area , like other , will have to be consider in the round in the spending review that will be publish later this year . I be less sanguine about the report than my right hon . friend . the report , or what be part of a report — it be difficult to assess when we do not know what the rest will say — have be too expensive and have take too long to produce . from read it , it do not seem to I to include some of the fundamental question that I and my constituent would like answer . what be the cost - benefit analysis of the decision take during lockdown , for instance ? what about lockdown itself ? be that a benefit or a disbenefit ? what be the cost of effectively close down the NHS , apart from for covid patient ? where do the virus come from ? do it come from China , which most of the evidence seem to indicate ? those question be not be answer . furthermore , I do not believe that set up a new quango in conjunction with the Cabinet Office , which have no experience of service delivery , will be the answer to any future epidemic . the report do not answer the question I would like answer . I hope my hon . friend do not think I be sanguine ; I be not sanguine at all . anyone who read the national risk register should not be sanguine because , as I say in my statement , we live in a world of risk and vulnerability . as for the inquiry ' s work , the inquiry be independent and be not instruct by the Government on the specific area it go into . it have 10 module , as decide by the inquiry because it be independent . may I echo the sentiment of the hon . member for Blackley and Middleton South ( Graham Stringer ) by express concern about the inquiry ? the Minister have be clear that he wish it be not take quite so long . it be take far too long . what can we learn from other country about how they have conduct their lesson - learn exercise , in order to make sure that the people watch the proceeding , who lose their love one , feel that something have be do , and do in good time ? this be by no mean the first public inquiry that have take too long . the right hon . Gentleman be in the great position of not be responsible for set up the inquiry . will he set out what he think we should learn from failed and lengthy inquiry to make sure we do these urgent lesson - learn exercise much more quickly ? the next emergency could strike tomorrow . we do not have time to hang around and have these long , blame - f inquiry with criminal lawyer ask " gotcha " question to get headline . the shadow Minister , in his response , also ask about the general question of inquiry . I believe there be a legitimate question to be ask about whether there can be a quick way for the state to admit when it be wrong and get justice for the victim . however , it be important that in the process we set up we do not lose the valuable question of independence and the valuable capacity these inquiry have for the victim to have a voice , which have sometimes be deny in other area . we have to have a system where the state can admit when it get thing wrong and which get justice for those who have feel the consequence of that . I be a cabinet member during covid , responsible for public health . as I listen to my right hon . friend ' s statement , I feel so relieved that we be about to replace the chaos experience by I and so many people across the country at that time with a forward - look , orderly and strategic approach . among the many thing that have be mention , I be particularly pleased by the idea of create a national vulnerability map . that be hugely need . on hear that the Department will monitor the implementation of the commitment make in response to the inquiry , will my right hon . friend come to the House regularly to update on that implementation ? this be just module 1 ; there be other module to be publish , and I will update the House in some form when the Government respond to those . of course , on top of that there be regular opportunity to question I and the Ministers in the Cabinet Office either at oral question or in front of Select Committees . I associate myself with the observation of the hon . member for Blackley and Middleton South ( Graham Stringer ) and my hon . friend the Member for Harwich and North Essex ( Sir Bernard Jenkin ) . the fact be that we have an absolutely urgent imperative to address the dysfunction of the british state that be expose by the covid inquiry . I agree with everything that have be say about how bad thing be in early 2020 . I welcome what the right hon . Gentleman be say about the importance of a strong centre and a more accountable Cabinet Office — I think that be the right direction to be go in . however , do he also recognise that the part of our society that do not fail in 2020 be the part very far from Whitehall — local government , the private sector and our community themselves ? do he agree that while the focus need to be on improve whitehall ' s response , we also need to think about the resilience of local community and ensure that they can play their part in the next crisis ? the hon . Gentleman make a very good point . my experience in Wolverhampton , which I represent , be that the local authority do a great job of look out for vulnerable people . an inquiry , perhaps by definition , place the emphasis on thing that go wrong , but there be a great deal of experience during the pandemic that show the good of society , with people look out for one another and help those who be vulnerable . we should draw on the thing that go well , as well as those that go wrong . in my previous role in health scrutiny in Lancashire , I get a bit feed up of hear from conservative politician that no one could have see covid coming , as if a global viral pandemic have not be top of the NHS risk register for year , and as if epidemiologist have not warn authority that it be a matter of when , not if . do my right hon . friend agree that it be a disgraceful abdication of responsibility for the former Government to plead ignorance to the well - know risk of a global viral pandemic ? I thank my hon . friend for her question . there be always a risk of plan for the wrong thing , which be a risk I be very aware of as we try to do this forward - look exercise . I be encourage by what I see yesterday in Liverpool at the Pandemic Institute , where the scientific expertise that we have in this country be try to take the learning from that in the past and ensure that we do not assume that the next situation will be the same as the one we go through several year ago . it might be something similar , but it might also be something very different , which be transmit differently and create a whole different series of question and requirement for the Government of the day . I be delighted to hear that relation with the devolved administration be now on a collegiate basis . I have to say that my experience as a lowly special adviser with the Scotland Office at the tail end of the pandemic be nothing like that at all ; it be very , very difficult . we face constant battle with the Scottish Government , who want to put their oar into area that really be nothing to do with they and constantly want change for the sake of change . I be therefore relieved to hear that the Cabinet Office seem to be take a lead in this . Heaven forfend we face another situation like the covid pandemic , but we probably will . can the right hon . Gentleman assure I that we will have a chain of command that make it clear who be in charge , which must be this sovereign Parliament ? I say that co - operation be good on this issue . of course , we live in a world where that might not always be the case on everything . however , I do think that , when it come to public protection , people should leave their politic at the door and ask themselves just one question : how do we protect the public and get the country through this ? I declare an interest as the chair of the all - party parliamentary group on vulnerable group to pandemic . I welcome my right hon . friend ' s statement today . one of the most striking conclusion of the covid inquiry be that it be the most vulnerable people in our society who be hard hit , whether that be because they have pre - exist health condition or because they be on some of the low wage in this country . will he tell the House what step be be take to ensure that , in the event of another incident of this nature , support reach the most vulnerable people in our community much more quickly than during the covid pandemic ? my hon . friend be right . crack in our society be expose ; this do not affect all part of society equally . we have to learn from that and respond to it . the very concept of have a society should mean that in an emergency we pull together and try to overcome it together . the map we be produce will help we somewhat in identify where those risk be . however , as I say in my statement , the most important thing be the underlie strength of the country and its institution , and , in this context , specifically that of the national health service itself . in Cheltenham , in Sandford Park , we have an avenue of tree that be plant in honour of the covid hero and the many victim that our town lose during the pandemic . not far from there , there be a playground , and that playground be shut . there be nothing more dystopian for child than see the playground that they cherish shut . child do not often have a voice in these kind of discussion . can the right hon . Gentleman confirm that the next time there be a pandemic , we will take a much more reasonable approach to risk , as raise in the module , and that child will have a big voice , so that they will not suffer the mental health problem that we know so many have suffer as a result of the pandemic ? this be something the inquiry intend to look at in the future , but let we state the obvious : parent of young child in a flat with no outside space have a very different experience of the covid pandemic compare with someone with a nice big garden . that be true . I totally understand the public health decision that be take , but they do not affect everybody equally . that be something to ponder for the future . I welcome my right hon . friend ' s statement today . to be honest , as a former public health consultant , I look on in amazement at what happen during the pandemic . I therefore welcome the fact that the report acknowledge and recognise that exercise Alice and Cygnus be ignore , that that contribute to our lack of preparedness , and that we have a decline national health and exacerbate health inequality . another point that be raise in the report , and in the film " the Unequal Pandemic " , be the fact that there be such low awareness around the function of public health , which be be reinvent at the centre . none of the legislation and regulation on public health protection be know . I have hear that report back from director of public health , who go into Cobra meeting where there be a total absence of understanding of basic legislation in this regard . can my right hon . friend reassure I on the relationship between the centre and local public health team , which be decimate because there be such a lack of understanding of public health as a whole , but particularly about their health protection role , and that this issue of reinvent the wheel will not happen again ? I thank my hon . friend for her question . I specifically mention local resilience forum in my opening statement for good reason . as I say a moment ago , I think it be really important that we recognise that , in an emergency , the centre , local government and the devolved government have to work together in the good interest of the public . I endorse what she say , as I have say a few time today , about the importance of the underlie strength of our health system in such an emergency . I want to begin by say that although the loss of every single life be of course tragic — and I see that at first hand when volunteer — it be important to note that , despite repeat political attack at the time suggest that we have the bad death rate in Europe , now when we look at the figure properly we see that we actually have a low death rate than Spain and Italy , and that we be broadly in line with Europe . I caution against diminish the result of a national effort , which be actually broadly in line with other country , in a desire to make political attack on the conservative party . as exhaustive as the inquiry ' s proposal for thing to look at be , to my mind I see a big gap which relate to the decision making of mps . the inquiry do not seem to cover that . those of we on the Government Benches — equally , it could be say of those on the Opposition Benches — be often face with very difficult vote that be expect to go down to the wire and be ask to make very difficult decision . mp ' access to independent advice and scientific briefing be nowhere near like it should have be . if the right hon . Gentleman agree that that be not part of the current inquiry , can he at least accept that it be a task for the Cabinet Office to think how we can well equip mp with the information they need to make decision on important vote of that nature ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his service to the public during the pandemic , and anybody who work or volunteer in the NHS or in other way for what they do . of course , MPs and the Government must have access to the good information they can , but I remind he of something else I say in my opening statement . in the end , the accountability for policy and resource allocation decision lie with the Government of the day . I do not say that in a partisan way . it be important to establish it as an understanding of how we deal with these thing in future . I pass the national covid memorial wall every day on my way to this place . it and the inquiry be a reminder of what happen when government get thing wrong . I absolutely welcome the announcement of a national pandemic response exercise later this year , but the inquiry find that a similar exercise take place in Scotland under the control of the Scottish Government before the pandemic , and that they fail to implement its conclusion . first , can the Minister reassure we that any outcome from such an exercise will be report to this House and that we will have oversight of the implementation of any recommendation ? secondly , I know it be outside the remit of the Minister ' s statement , but can he give we an update on the recovery of any money lose through dodgy contract to the mate of the previous Government ? let I repeat the praise I give to the volunteer who maintain the national covid memorial wall . hon . member may not be aware of it when they look at the red heart , but over time they fade — they fade to pink . the reason they be keep red be that there be a group of volunteer down there overpainte the heart to make sure that the wall do not fade away and that the memory of the name record do not fade away . the conclusion of the national pandemic exercise will be report . prediction be a dangerous game , but let I make one : there will be thing that go wrong . shortfall will be expose and not everything will go right , but that be part of the purpose of do an exercise like this . I be happy to assure he in term of learn from it and the conclusion . I thank the Minister for advance sight of his statement . I also completely agree with he that in these matter the public do not care about party political difference . I note his commitment to an independent , whole - system civil preparedness and resilience process go forward . I be just look for some reassurance that the devolve government will be consult and fully involved . like the hon . member for Edinburgh South West ( Dr Arthur ) , I want to press the Minister on recovery from some of the very wasteful PPE contract that be award during the pandemic . the hon . Member will know that we have appoint a covid fraud commissioner to try to recover as much as possible of the money that go wrong . I have seek not to be partisan today , but I do believe that the system in place be wrong , and that there be some abuse and a significant loss of money . when we be in a situation where we want value for money for the public , we want to recover as much of that as possible . I repeat that relation with the devolved government on this kind of issue have be good so far . I hope it be the case that that be maintain through the national pandemic exercise that we be plan . we all live through the pandemic , and we all come to see the immense value of our key worker : the bus driver who have to continue to make essential journey ; the carer who have no choice but to continue to provide close - quarter care ; and the postie , some of whom I meet recently in Welwyn Garden City at their delivery depot on Bessemer Road . they tell I that when they have socially distance conversation on the doorstep with lonely resident , it be often the only human interaction they have all day . will my right hon . friend the Minister reaffirm how important the Government believe the role of key worker be , and that , critically , for the next pandemic we have measure in place to make sure they be protect and support ? my hon . friend raise an excellent point . let I echo his praise for all the key worker he mention . when the chip be down , we find out who be keep the country go . let I , from this Dispatch Box , thank each and every one of they for what they do to keep the country go during those very difficult time . the Minister , quite rightly , express sympathy for the victim of covid - 19 , which be something we all share , but he have not mention anything about the victim of covid - 19 vaccine , of whom there be thousand . we know that those people do the right thing and take the vaccine , but they be not warn of the risk . the Minister have be talk about risk assessment . there be a lack of risk engagement , and now we find that the compensation scheme , the vaccine damage payment scheme , be in place but not operate effectively or fairly . the Health Minister keep talk about possibly amend it , but every time he mention that it cause immense harm to all those who be still suffer as a consequence of have do the right thing and take the covid - 19 vaccine , when many of they now wish they have not . let I say to the hon . Gentleman that I believe the production and distribution of the vaccine be one of the thing that go well and which this country contribute to , and that the availability of vaccine help we to overcome the pandemic . in those case where there be adverse reaction , there be a scheme in place , as he say . my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Health have meet people affect . of course , we want to help people affect through the kind of scheme that exist . first , I thank the Minister for comment on the importance of multidisciplinary research . from my own previous research , I know that that be very important , particularly in the development of AI algorithmic risk prediction model . I also have the pleasure yesterday of speak to Professor Tom Solomon , the director of the Liverpool Pandemic Institute , which the Science , Innovation and Technology Committee have the pleasure of visit recently . he impress on I the value of physician researcher in conduct groundbreake research . do the Minister agree that it be vital we provide the time and fund to researcher such as Professor Solomon to help build our national resilience to future pandemic ? let I echo my hon . friend ' s praise for Professor Solomon and the work that he and the Pandemic Institute be do . he be right to underline the value of research , as be my hon . friend . as have be point out throughout these exchange , the next crisis that the country face may be very different from the last , so it be important that we use one of this country ' s great asset , its tremendous research institute and research capability , to scan the horizon as well as we can and to be as well prepared as we possibly can . have serve on the frontline during covid , I be acutely aware of the sacrifice make by clinician , patient and staff . however , when it come to prepare for any future pandemic , part of the solution be ensure that we have robust epidemiological research . could the Minister tell we , in rather more granular detail , what assessment he have make of the current project commission by the Government ? the hon . Gentleman be right about the need for robust research . I do not analyse the research project one by one , but I thank he for his service , and underline what I have say a few time today : the good insurance that we can have in respond to another crisis like the one that we go through some year ago be the underlie strength of the country and the NHS . that be why we have make the decision to put resource into the NHS to help to turn it around and make it strong in the future than it be today . I spend the pandemic as a trade unionist at the TUC , support france , now Baroness , o ' grady in her fight for the right to safety of work people . the covid inquiry hear time and again about the impact of the pandemic on those with low wage and insecure work — people who have to go into work even when it be not safe because otherwise they could not feed their family , and who be disproportionately from black and minority ethnic background . will the Minister ensure that the new national vulnerability map treat insecure worker as vulnerable for the purpose of crisis planning and resilience , and will he ensure that the union be key stakeholder in build that resilience in the UK ? my hon . friend be right to underline the need to thank the key worker , many of whom be low pay and many of whom do come from ethnic minority background . they keep the country go , and sometimes have to put themselves at risk to help and protect the rest of we . I thank my hon . friend and those who represent work people for the work that they do during the pandemic . may I ask about the specific of the Government ' s response to module 1 ? I be interested to hear about the national vulnerability map , which could help with a range of matter include digital exclusion as well as public health , but let I ask the Minister two question . first , have he take into consideration the finding of Chris Whitty ' s 2021 report on coastal community and their specific vulnerability ? secondly , while this be obviously a hugely valuable undertaking , I do not want we to create a one - trick pony , so could the Minister try to seize the big opportunity to build a well system for store and use citizen datum that could benefit everyone and give all sort of people the support that they need when they need it ? as I say a while ago , datum have be describe as the new oil , and there be good reason for use it . the Government and the state have a duty to try to use datum to secure the good outcome for the public , and one example be use it to map our vulnerability . I have be praise people for what they do during the pandemic , so let I now praise Sir Chris Whitty , the chief medical officer , for what he do then and what he continue to do today . the country be very lucky to have he , and I thank he for everything that he do . it be a source of national shame that our country be so underprepared for the covid pandemic , and the Conservatives need to take their fair share of the responsibility for that . we all worry about where the next pandemic will come from , and I be particularly concerned about the risk pose by dengue fever . for those who be not aware of it , let I explain that it be a disease spread by mosquito . it have be travel close and close to the UK in recent year owe to rise temperature and climate change , and have most recently be find in Paris . as one who represent a constituency on the south coast , I be especially worried about the warning that it could be within the UK within year . there be currently no cure , but there be a vaccine go through trial thank to international collaboration , of which our country be a part . may I ask what step the Government be take to improve our preparedness for the next pandemic , wherever it may come from and however it may be transmit ? one of the risk that we face be pose by mosquito - borne disease — virus of various kind . the UK Health Security Agency monitor such disease so that we have the most up - to - date information possible . this be a good example of scan the horizon and understanding that the next crisis we face may not be the same as the last . I agree with other member who have say that this inquiry be take too long , cost too much and , in many case , not ask the right question . the result of the previous pandemic response exercise some nine year ago , Operation Cygnus , be so shocking that they be keep from this House and the british people . will the Minister commit that the result of the pandemic exercise later this year will be transmit totally openly , with full transparency , to this House and the british people ? I thank the hon . member for his two question . I have say what I say on the speed of the state ' s admission when thing go wrong . we do need to think about that and look at it . as for the result , the finding of the exercise will be make public , and let I repeat my prediction : they will probably show thing that have go wrong and area where we need to improve . anyone who carry out such an exercise and do not expect that will face a nasty surprise . one of the positive we see during the covid pandemic be an outpouring of neighbourliness . church and faith community play a key role in mobilise support for those most in need , deliver meal , shopping and prescription medication to those who be advise to stay at home . will the Minister join I in pay tribute to all those volunteer and assure the House that faith community and other community organisation will be involve in the local resilience forum , so that they be integral to both the resilience planning and incident response ? my hon . friend be absolutely right : many of these effort show the good of we and how much people be prepared to look out for one another . I be really touch by the effort of the Sikh gurdwara in Wolverhampton in distribute food to people of all faith and none , and of other faith group and community group who do similar thing to help the most vulnerable people during the pandemic . I want to pay my respect to all those we have lose , and I give my heart to those who have lose love one and have to live their life without they . in bassetlaw , I have meet many family who have needlessly lose love one . my good friend Pete Armitage die on 6 April 2020 in hospital , unable to breathe , without his wife by his side , and with only six of we at his funeral . I want to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the volunteer who step up and go out , without any fear for their own health or their life , to deliver food , to stand on vaccination line and to help at local food bank . I want to ensure that we in Parliament never forget those name . I pay tribute to they , and I ask the Minister to do the same . in my final answer of the afternoon , let I warmly endorse what my hon . Friend say on both count . let we remember all those who lose their life and give thank to the many relative and friend who be keep those name alive and try to make sure that we learn the lesson from what happen in the past . let we praise all the volunteer who help people in any way . it be a very tough time in this country and other , but those effort — that reach out — show the good of we , and we should not forget it . child Sexual Exploitation and Abuse I remind member to take care to avoid say anything that could prejudice any case relate to vulnerable child that be currently before the court or might come before the court at a later date . last Monday , I set out the action this Government be take to tackle the terrible crime of child sexual exploitation and abuse , include mandatory reporting , a new victim and survivor panel , an overhaul of datum and police performance requirement , tough sentence for perpetrator , and support for local inquiry , include in Oldham . the Safeguarding Minister , the Under - Secretary of State for the Home Department , my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) , meet this morning with survivor from Oldham . early this week , she and I meet Professor Alexis Jay , who chair both the seven - year national independent inquiry into child sexual abuse and the first local independent inquiry into groom gang in Rotherham . Professor Jay ' s strong message to we be that the survivor , who bravely testify to the terrible crime commit against they , must not be leave to feel that their effort be in vain because , despite all the inquiry , no one listen and nothing be do . follow those discussion , I want to update the House on our next step to take forward the inquiry ' s recommendation , and to go far in tackle sexual exploitation and groom on the street and online , in order to keep child safe . the independent national inquiry into child sexual abuse complete its final report in 2022 . it take seven year , hear 7 , 000 personal testimony and consider 2 million page of evidence . there be devastating account of brutal rape , sexual violence , humiliation , trauma and the betrayal of vulnerable child by those charge with protect they , and account of people in position of power who shamefully put the reputation of institution before the protection of child . the inquiry include separate detailed report on organise child abuse in residential home and school , and on abuse and cover - up in the catholic and anglican church . a two - year inquiry into child sexual exploitation by organise network and groom gang , publish in February 2022 , examine over 400 recommendation make by previous inquiry and serious case review , as well as take further evidence of its own . there have be further report since then , include on Telford and on police performance . however , despite all the national inquiry , report and hundred of recommendation , far too little action have be take and , shamefully , little progress have be make . that have to change . before Easter , the Government will lay out a clear timetable for take forward the 20 recommendation of the final iicsa report . four of those be specifically for the Home Office . I can confirm that we have accept they in full , include on disclosure and barring , and work be already under way . a cross - Government ministerial group be consider and work through the remain recommendation , and that group will be support by our new victim and survivor panel . in addition , I can confirm today that the Government will implement all the remain recommendation in the child abuse inquiry ' s separate stand - alone report on groom gang from February 2022 , include update key Department for Education guidance . let I turn to the area where we need to go far . as I say last week , the most important task should be to increase police investigation into these horrific crime and get abuser behind bar . we will introduce strong sentence for child groom by make organise abuse and exploitation an aggravating factor , and today I can announce new action to help victim get more investigation and prosecution under way . I be extend the remit of the independent child sexual abuse review panel to cover not just historical case before 2013 but all case since , so that any victim of abuse will have the right to seek an independent review without have to go back to the local institution that decide not to proceed with their case . today , I be write to the National Police Chiefs ' Council to ask all chief constable to look again at historical gang exploitation case where no further action be take , and to work with the child sexual exploitation police taskforce to pursue new line of inquiry and reopen investigation where appropriate . these new measure will be back by £ 2 million of additional funding for the taskforce and the panel , and all police force will be expect to implement the 2023 recommendation from his Majesty ' s inspectorate of constabulary and fire and rescue service , include produce " problem profile " on the nature of groom gang in their area . I have ask the inspectorate to review progress this year . as well as review past case , we need much strong action to uncover the full scale and nature of these awful crime . the child sexual exploitation police taskforce , lead by the National Police Chiefs ' Council , have estimate that of the 115 , 000 child sexual abuse offence record by the police in 2023 , around 4 , 000 involve more than one perpetrator . of those , around 1 , 100 involve abuse within the family and over 300 involved abuse in institution , and the taskforce identify 717 report case of group or gang - relate child sexual exploitation . however , we know that the vast majority of abuse go unreported , so we expect all those figure to be significant underestimate . the taskforce report that 127 major police investigation across 29 police force be currently under way into child sexual exploitation and gang grooming . many major investigation have involve pakistani - heritage gang . the police taskforce evidence also show exploitation and abuse take place across many different community and ethnicity , but the datum on the ethnicity of both perpetrator and victim be still inadequate . as I say last week , we will overhaul the datum that we expect local area to collect as part of a new performance management framework . I have also ask the child sexual exploitation taskforce to immediately expand the ethnicity datum it collect and publishe , so that data be gather from the end of an investigation when a full picture be available , not just from the beginning when suspect may not yet have be identify . to go much far , I have ask Baroness Louise Casey to oversee a rapid audit of the current scale and nature of gang - base exploitation across the country , and to make recommendation on the further work that be need . the specific 2022 iicsa report on gang exploitation conclude : " an accurate picture of the prevalence of child sexual exploitation could not be glean " from the datum and evidence it have available . this audit will seek to fill that gap . the audit will look at further evidence that be not previously available , include evidence collect by the police taskforce and the new problem profile compile by police force . it will also include an equivalent audit of child protection referral ; it will properly examine ethnicity datum and the demographic of the gang and their victim ; it will look at the cultural and societal driver for this type of offending , include among different ethnic group ; and it will make recommendation about further analysis , investigation and action that be need to address current and historical failure . Baroness Louise Casey be the author of the no - holds - bar 2015 report into child sexual exploitation in Rotherham , and I have therefore ask she to oversee this rapid three - month audit ahead of the launch of the independent commission into adult social care . in many area across the country , the focus must now be on further police investigation and implement recommendation to improve service , but we will also provide strong national backing for local inquiry where they be need , to get truth and justice for victim and survivor . last week , the Prime Minister and I meet survivor from Telford , who have enormous praise for the way that local inquiry be conduct after there have be failing over many year . that inquiry lead to tangible change , include pilot the introduction of CCTV in taxi and appoint child sexual exploitation expert in local secondary school . as we have see , effective local inquiry can delve into far more local detail and deliver more locally relevant answer and change than a lengthy nationwide inquiry can provide . Tom Crowther KC , the chair of the Telford inquiry , have agree to work with the Government to develop a new framework for victim - centre , locally lead inquiry where they be need . as a first step , he will work with Oldham council and up to four other pilot area . this will include support for local authority that want to explore other way to support victim , include local panel or draw on the experience of the independent inquiry ' s truth project . the Government be already draw up a duty of candour as part of the long - await Hillsborough law . we will also work with mayor and local council to bolster the accountability mechanism that can support and follow up local inquiry , to ensure that those who be complicit in cover - up , or who try to resist scrutiny , be always robustly hold to account so that truth and justice be never deny . this new package of national support for local inquiry will be back by £ 5 million of additional funding to get further local work off the ground because , at every level , get justice for victim and protect child be a responsibility we all share . finally , we can not ignore the way in which child exploitation be change as offender exploit new technology to target and groom child . we should all be deeply worried about the pace and growth of exploitation that begin online . we be therefore bolster the work of the Home Office - fund undercover online network of police officer to target online offender , and develop cutting - edge AI tool and other new capability to infiltrate livestream and chatroom where child be be groom . further measure will be announce in the crime and police Bill to tackle those organise online child sex abuse . nothing matter more than the safety of our child , yet for too long , this horrific abuse be allow to continue . victim be ignore , perpetrator be leave unpunished , and too many people look the other way . even when these shocking crime be bring to light and national inquiry be commission to get to the truth , the result report be too often leave on the shelf as their recommendation gather dust . under this Government , that have change . we be take action not just on those recommendation , but on the additional work that we need to do to protect victim , put perpetrator behind bar and uncover the truth wherever thing have go wrong . this be about the protection of child , the protection of young girl , and the radical and ambitious mission that we have set for this Government to halve violence against woman and girl in a decade . I hope all member will support that mission and support the measure that we have outline today to help achieve that aim . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Home Secretary . let we start by remember the victim of this scandal . thousand of young girl , often in their early teen , be systematically rape by gang of man , predominantly of pakistani heritage . those in position of authority — the police , local council and the Crown Prosecution Service — ignore they and , in some case , even cover up these horrendous crime because of absurd concern about so - call cultural sensitivity . ten day ago , the Prime Minister compound this by say that it be a " far - right bandwagon " to raise these issue and call for a proper inquiry . let I say this : it be not far right to stand up for rape victim , and smear those who raise this issue be exactly what lead to the victim — [ interruption . ] order . the shadow Home Secretary will be hear . smear those who raise this issue be exactly what lead to the victim be ignore and the crime cover up in the first place . therefore , will the Home Secretary apologise on behalf of the Prime Minister for his language last week ? it be not true to say that the previous Government do nothing follow the IICSA report . they set up the grooming gang taskforce follow the IICSA report , which lead to 550 arrest of perpetrator in the first year alone , and I be glad that the new Government be continue that work . in April 2023 , the data collection on the ethnicity of perpetrator be initiate , but the initial publication of that — I think last November — show that the collection be incomplete . will the Home Secretary ensure both that the police follow through on the work initiate in April 2023 and that the data be collect more comprehensively ? the mandatory reporting recommendation be introduce as an amendment to the Criminal Justice Bill , which fall due to the early general election . I be glad that the Government say that they will now pick that up and take it forward . previous report and review do not go far enough . the IICSA report itself be mainly not about these rape gang . in fact , it barely touch on the issue and look at only six town . we now believe that as many as 50 town could have be affect , so the IICSA barely scratch the surface . the Home Secretary just announce Government support for only five local inquiry . that be wholly inadequate when we know that up to 50 town be affect . I have some serious question for the Home Secretary . first , how be the other 40 - plus town suppose to get answer to the question that they have , and how will these initial five town be choose ? secondly , the Home Secretary say nothing in her statement about the power that these local inquiry will have . it seem that they will not be statutory inquiry under the Inquiries Act 2005 . that mean that these local inquiry will not have the power to compel witness to attend , to take evidence under oath or to requisition write evidence . if that be the case , how can they possibly get to the truth when face with cover - up ? it be precisely that problem — the lack of power — that reportedly lead the chair of the Manchester local inquiry to resign last year . they be not give the information that they need by public authority , and do not have the power require to force its release , so they resign . legal power be need , because these crime be deliberately cover up in some case . we hear just a week or two ago from the former Labour MP for Rochdale Simon Danczuk , who say that the then chair of the parliamentary Labour party tell he not to raise these issue for fear of lose muslim vote — truly appalling . not a single person have be convict for cover up or ignore these crime . in my view , the criminal offence of misconduct in public office might apply . moreover , those vile perpetrator who can be deport should be deport , every single one of they — change the law if that be need to do it , and use visa sanction on country such as Pakistan to ensure that they accept eligible perpetrator . what the Home Secretary have announce today be totally inadequate . it will cover only a fraction of the town affect , and it appear that the inquiry will not have the legal power they need . that be why we need a proper , full national public inquiry , cover the whole country and with the power under the Inquiries Act 2005 that be need to obtain the evidence require . it be not just I who think that ; in the last week or two , the Labour Members for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) and for Liverpool Walton ( Dan Carden ) have call for a full national inquiry , as have Andy Burnham , the Labour Mayor of Greater Manchester . I commend those member and Andy Burnham for their courage in speak out . recent polling show that the vast majority of the public want a full national public inquiry , include 73 % of Labour voter . most importantly , so do victim . Jane be groom and abuse at the age of just 12 . she be gang rape repeatedly . she tell the police and she tell her social worker . at one point , the police even find she be abuse by an illegal immigrant , but instead of arrest he , they arrest she . Jane still do not know if any of her abuser have be jail , or if any of the public official who let she down so badly have be hold to account . Jane now want a proper national public inquiry — Home Secretary , why don ' t you ? these be the most vile crime , against teenager , child and young girl . very often they involve sadistic abuse , rape and the most appalling trauma that can last for many year . the independent inquiry into child sexual abuse run for seven year and take evidence from 7 , 000 victim and survivor across the country . too many of those voice , and the bravery that those victim show , have just be ignore . the right hon . Gentleman say that he take action , but I be afraid the conservative party have 10 year to introduce a duty to report child abuse , make it a responsibility of professional to report it , and make it an offence to cover up child abuse . I be call for that 10 year ago . the Prime Minister be call for it 12 year ago . the right hon . Gentleman fail to do it , and we have lose a decade as a result . the independent inquiry into child sexual abuse also run a two - year investigation of child sexual exploitation and groom gang . one of the shocking thing that it find be that less be now know and understand about the prevalence of this appalling crime than prior to 2015 . in the period 2015 to 2022 , even after we know about what have happen in Rotherham , and Baroness Louise Casey have identify its impact and the failure to address issue of race and ethnicity , the previous Government go backwards on gather datum and information , and the need for proper evidence . that be why this Government have commission Baroness Louise Casey to instigate a rapid review to uncover the prevalence of this appalling crime across the country , with no hold bar , in the way that we know she will conduct this inquiry , to fill the gap in the evidence , rather than rerun the same question without the evidence and datum that we badly need . I also point out to the shadow Minister that his party weaken the disclosure and bar rule in 2012 , again make change that I and the Policing Minister , my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull North and Cottingham ( Dame Diana Johnson ) , oppose at the time , and that the independent inquiry rightly recommend reverse in order to keep child safe . again , his party fail to act . I hope the action we have announce will be support right across the country . it include the duty to report child abuse ; proper penalty for cover it up ; strong sentence for groom gang ; new right for victim to get an independent review on reopen their case ; new action to reopen historical police investigation ; new standard for the police to meet ; a new victim and survivor panel ; a new audit of the scale and nature of child sexual exploitation and grooming gang , lead by someone who uncover a lot of the problem in Rotherham , include the failure to confront pakistani - heritage gang ; the gathering and publishing of new ethnicity datum , which the shadow Minister fail to do ; new national support for local inquiry , include the Telford model ; victim panel ; new work on accountability link to the Hillsborough law to hold failure to account , because we will strengthen the law to do so ; and a proper timetable for take forward the independent inquiry , because this have to be about action and protect child and keep they safe . I think I hear the Home Secretary adopt my five - point plan , so I thank she for that and thank everybody across the House who have be campaign on the issue . if I could ask for some clarity : do the Home Secretary say she will adopt all 20 of the iicsa recommendation or just those in the grooming gang strand ? do local authority as well as police force have to do a review into their case of CSE ? she cite Telford , which be victim - focused — that be why it be so important , because we must have those victim ' and survivor ' voice — but what Telford and Greater Manchester say they lack be the ability to compel witness . a big strand of what we need to do be ensure that there have be no cover - up , and we can only do that if requirement be on a statutory footing . with respect , Telford cost £ 8 million and the Home Secretary say she be provide £ 5 million for the whole inquiry across the country . why do we need another inquiry in Telford when we know this be happen nationally ? can she assure we that there will be transparency of the finding of all the inquiry , review and audits ? be it possible that the inquiry could be UK - wide , because I do not believe this be only happen in England and Wales ? it need to be across the whole of the UK . I thank my hon . friend for her question . to go through they in turn , we will set out before Easter the timetable for take forward the work around all the recommendation from the main independent inquiry into child sexual abuse . she will know that some of the recommendation raise complex issue , and considerable work will need to be do on some of they . we recognise that and have discuss that with Professor Alexis Jay . there be other recommendation we can take forward swiftly , and those cover and lead by the Home Office be be take forward swiftly . the work be already under way , include on disclosure and barring and on the duty to report , which will be include as part of the legislation . on the local inquiry , we be not redo the Telford inquiry . my hon . friend be right that in Telford the extensive inquiry that be conduct involved , crucially , victim and survivor throughout . they be involve from the very beginning , design the inquiry in the first place . the inquiry have lead to substantial change , and there continue to be far follow - up work on it . that be the effective model . we need local council , police and crime commissioner , Mayors and the Government to work together on they , so we be provide the additional £ 5 million . Tom Crowther will work specifically with the first five local authority that want to do such work , draw up an effective model that can be use in other area . on the ability to gather evidence and ensure that there be proper accountability , there have to be clear accountability . this process can not be a way in which area or institution can avoid scrutiny . obviously , the work in Telford and the original work in Rotherham by Baroness Casey manage to uncover truth in different area , but there also need to be other new arrangement on accountability . we be work with the Cabinet Office , Mayors and council to draw up new accountability arrangement . that will ensure either proper follow - up or , as part of those initial inquiry , that a proper accountability framework be in place . we will link that to the duty of candour part of the Hillsborough law . unlike the previous Government , who frankly never take seriously issue of candour , responsibility and accountability in the 14 year that they be in power , and refuse to bring in a Hillsborough law , we will bring in such a law because we be clear that there must be proper accountability for the failure to tackle this abuse . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . survivor be tough , as I know from my own experience of abuse as a child , about which I have speak in the Chamber . survivor have be subject to intense impact and blister climate , but like a blade in the blacksmith ' s forge , each strike have strengthen many survivor ' character , mettle and spirit , even though those be experience that should never be undergo in the first place . each shock have embolden our resolve to be the very sword carry by Lady Justice herself , or at least to see it wield with strength — to see action take and justice do . however , too many survivor ' story have be characterise by be ignore , hide or gaslit . recently , too many survivor ' story have be shamefully use as a political football in some corner of this House and beyond . survivor ' experience be litter with gut - wrench instance of power - holder miss glare opportunity to take action against child sexual abuse and exploitation . history must stop repeat itself . we can not afford for Professor Jay ' s finding , or those of the inquiry announce today , to gather dust atop power - holder ' bookshelf , to get lose at the bottom of in - tray , or to be banish to the depth of filing cabinet . in line with the courage that it have take so many survivor to speak out on this issue , we Liberal Democrats — and many other , I know — implore those in position of power at all level to step up , too . that mean that those weaponise this issue for party political gain must stop now ; it mean that Professor Jay ' s 20 recommendation must be implement from now ; and it mean that the work to get the local inquiry set up must start now . survivor need assurance that — beyond the area that have be announce today — they will be able to get justice in their case as well . will the Home Secretary share the plan for the area beyond those she have announce today ? what legal power will the inquiry have to ensure that they have tooth and justice can be deliver ? we must all dignify survivor ' experience with action . we must honour all survivor ' story with reform . Lady Justice demand it , and so do the temper sword that she wield . I welcome the hon . member ' s point on this extremely serious issue . he be right that many victim and survivor need a proper police investigation to go after the perpetrator , prosecute and hold they to account , and get justice and put they behind bar . that will help to protect other young people as well . one of the most important change be that we be make it easy to get investigation reopen where they have be close down for the wrong reason and justice still need to be do . we will give victim a strong right to review . they will be able to go to an independent panel with their case and have it independently review so that it can be reopen . we be also ask police force across the country to review the closed case and pursue new line of inquiry , with the taskforce ' s support to ensure that they can do so . Tom Crowther , who do the Telford inquiry , will work with five area on the kind of inquiry that they may want to take forward , involve victim and survivor — it be crucial to involve victim and survivor in the design . one Telford survivor give evidence to both the national inquiry and the local inquiry , and she find that the local inquiry be far more effective at get change in that area , and it be easy for she to give evidence to it . that be why we need area to be able to learn from what Telford do effectively , but also to be back up by a strong arrangement for accountability — strong mechanism for hold local organisation to account if they be not comply . however , we also expect local organisation to comply and to be part of find truth and justice for survivor . I welcome my right hon . friend ' s statement and the measure she have include in it , and I thank she for her promptness in do that . I also thank her team , especially the Minister for Safeguarding , my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) , for listen to and provide support to constituent who have go through such horrific abuse . how will my right hon . friend ensure not only that the individual responsible for this awful abuse will be catch and convict , but that those who fail to protect and support these vulnerable young people — it be not just young woman who have be affect in Oldham , but also young man — will be hold to account ? my hon . friend be right to raise those important point , and I know that she have work on this issue for many year . one of the thing we need to do be strengthen the law in this area . we need to have a much strong legal framework to ensure that there be proper accountability ; not just hold to account and properly punish the perpetrator of appalling abuse , but hold to account institution and individual who fail to take the action need to protect our child . that mean the duty to report , make it an offence to cover up child abuse ; a duty of candour , to comply and provide the information and transparency in these case ; and look at the other local mechanism that need to be in place in area such as my hon . friend ' s and across the country , enable we to ensure that there be proper accountability when thing go really badly wrong . I call the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee . I welcome the statement , which my Committee will look at carefully . Professor Alexis Jay will be in front of we next Tuesday and I be sure that we will come back with further point , but I have two point today . the first be about the duty to report . in many case , report be make but the victim be simply not listen to and not believe , so what can the Home Secretary do to ensure that change ? secondly , since I be not clear from her answer so far , will the local inquiry have statutory power to compel witness — yes or no ? on the right hon . Lady ' s first point , she be right that report be often not listen to and not follow up . in some area , what that mean be that although recommendation be make , there be never any follow - up — there be never the proper implementation of standard to be able to do so . for example , in police we have never have a proper performance management framework to ensure that standard be be meet and that there be proper follow - up . we need that strong performance management framework in place . those who conduct the Telford inquiry be able to make progress and get to the truth use an exist local inquiry framework . that be able to be extremely effective . in other area , we have need to have other action — include , for example , action by inspectorate to follow up — so there be different approach that we can take . we believe that the current system be not strong enough ; that be why we have set out work that be under way , involve the Cabinet Office and local mayor and local council , to make sure we can strengthen the accountability arrangement to be able both to follow up and support local inquiry where they be relevant , and to use exist power that be in place . as a barrister and a former Crown prosecutor for 14 year who deal with sexual abuse and rape case , I can tell this House that sexual abuse and assault occur throughout the United Kingdom and be not specific to any gender , race or religion — we just have to look at the Pelicot case in France . however , there be one group of victim who be often not speak about , which be young boy and young man . the level of sexual abuse that relate to they be completely under - report . I think it be a cultural thing : the idea that boy must man up and must not show their feeling . can I therefore ask the Home Secretary that , when she be look at these thing , she ensure that those undertake such inquiry look into fact about the abuse of young boy ? my hon . friend be right to raise this point . in fact , it be one of the issue raise as part of the independent inquiry ' s two - year review of child exploitation . the review identify that teenage or young boy be be exploit and that there be often pattern of that start with online exploitation . what start as online abuse and grooming then lead to contact abuse and rape , and the most appalling violation . she be right to highlight this issue , and it be extremely important that this be take into account and be part of the way in which local council and police force need to respond . the House will be well aware that I have be consistently campaign for a rape gang inquiry into child sexual expectation across Keighley and the wide Bradford district for far too long . so I welcome some of the point that the Home Secretary have make , particularly on the implementation of the 20 recommendation from the IICSA report . unfortunately , I do not feel that she be go far enough , and I would like to make a few point . in particular , I have serious concern about the ability of inquiry at a local level to compel witness to give evidence and about the amount of funding that will be make available . will the local inquiry that the Home Secretary be advocate be truly independent , not just local authority mark their own homework , and will they lead to conviction ? local authority leader in Bradford district have consistently refuse to back my call for a public inquiry , as have the Mayor of West Yorkshire and the deputy Mayor for policing , Alison Lowe . how on earth be we mean to get across this barrier of local leader refuse to have an inquiry on this issue without the Government step in and give the statutory authority that we on this side of the House be demand ? it be obviously really important to ensure that there be independent scrutiny . the hon . member will be aware that the inquiry in Rotherham lead by Baroness Louise Casey use inspectorate power , but it be clearly independent and it manage to uncover serious problem that have go wrong in Rotherham at that time , so there be different way of do this . the Telford inquiry be fund locally , but it manage to involve victim and survivor , and it also manage to shape the inquiry in the way that victim and survivor want , which be also important . for all area right across the country , the most important thing be still to get police investigation go after the perpetrator , get they before the court and get they behind bar . whatever else happen , get strong police investigation in order to pursue perpetrator must remain at the heart of what happen . child sexual expectation and abuse be the most sickening , appal crime perpetrate against some of the most vulnerable youngster in our community . so I strongly welcome this comprehensive new national plan of action to put victim first , and I welcome the appointment of Baroness Casey to conduct a rapid review of the scale and nature of these grooming gang . can I also urge a cross - party consensus on this issue , rather than the game playing and misinformation we have see over the past week ? the Home Secretary , the Safeguarding Minister and I have all be consistent in say that we should put the victim at the heart of everything we do . my constituent in Rochdale know that this issue be too important for political point scoring , and we should put victim at the heart of everything we do . that be not just for the victim of the past , but for the victim of the present . I thank my hon . friend for his question . I know this be an area on which he do a lot of work . he be right that the purpose of a national audit by Baroness Casey be to identify the scale and look properly at the characteristic of these appalling crime right across the country , and then to make further recommendation about further work and further investigation that may be need . anyone who have work with Baroness Casey will know how independent and determine she will always be . my hon . friend be also right that this must still be about victim and survivor and , crucially , protect they for the future , because we still do not have strong enough standard and strong enough protection in place . unless those change be make , we will continue to let child and young people down . I thank the Home Secretary for her statement and for the step the Government be take to address this serious issue . I appreciate that the timetable for the implementation of the IICSA recommendation can not be immediately share , but wait until Easter mean there be a big period when we need to take some action . will she explain what immediate step the Government be take to ensure that all allege victim who come forward be treat , take seriously and listen to , and that immediate action be take to address their allegation , so as to serve justice and protect these child ? I can assure the hon . member that we be already take forward some of the recommendation . some will be in legislation and will take time to pass through Parliament , because legislation also need to change . we be also take immediate action to change the victim ' right to review so that if victim have be to the police or to a local authority — this include parent who have be worried about their child — and they feel that nothing be be do , they will have a right to review . that will be an independent right to review — not just to go back to the same police force or the same Crown Prosecution Service , but to go to an independent panel on child sexual abuse to get that independent look , so that we can get more case reopen and get urgent action take , which be what we need to keep child safe . I welcome this action from a Government who see violence against woman and girl as the national emergency that it be , with a Prime Minister , Home Secretary and a Safeguarding Minister with record of take action to deliver for victim like I and many in my constituency . give birth as a result of groom be a story that far too many of we share . there be so many reason why child and the woman that they grow into do not speak out . I want to share one particular story today . it be about the victim who tell I that the perpetrator have threaten that if she speak out , he will have access to her child , which be something he have not do so far . that mean she have to work so hard to hide his crime in order to protect herself and her baby . will the Home Secretary meet I and other victim to discuss change the law in order to protect child bear of rape ? I thank my hon . friend for that incredibly important point , and also for the shocking and disturbing story she have tell of victim continue to be silence , have already be through the most traumatic experience . they be then continue to be silence to protect the child , even though what actually need to happen be for perpetrator to be hold to account and to face the full force of the law . she be right that we need to ensure that family court can not be use by abuser and rapist to persecute victim . I will happily meet my hon . friend , and I know that the Safeguarding Minister will too . this issue be also be take forward by the Ministry of Justice . the House should be generous towards the Home Secretary , as she have travel a long way since last week by recognise that there be a requirement for far more inquiry into the town affect , and we should thank she for that . however , one crucial thing still lack from her statement today be whether these new inquiry will have the power to summon witness and require the production of paper . only the Home Secretary — or a Secretary of State or Minister — can set up a statutory inquiry . in fact , the Minister specify an inquiry could set the term of reference , decide whether it should concentrate on certain town , set the timeframe and set the budget . she could appoint as many people as she want to the panel so that different part of the inquiry could run in different part of the country concurrently . be she really rule out that any of these inquiry should be statutory inquiry ? victim have the real freedom to speak out only in this Parliament , as we have just movingly hear , or in a statutory inquiry , where they be legally immune from consequence for anything they say . why can not she provide the victim with those protection ? the strong protection for victim continue to be through police investigation , and of course the police have full power to pursue investigation wheresoever they may be find . a series of local inquiry have be hold in different way . the inspector investigation into Rotherham , where Baroness Casey be the lead inspector , do have power to get to the truth , whereas the Telford inquiry do not have those power but still manage to uncover serious problem and make serious recommendation . there be different way in which to do this . we have make it clear that we want to strengthen accountability power and the ability to ensure that answer be give to local area , and that be alongside the work we already have under way as part of the Hillsborough law on the duty of candour that we need to implement across the board . I thank the Home Secretary for the really important step that she have announce today . nothing must come in the way of victim get justice or be listen to , or of we learn all that we can about how we protect future victim . if lesson come out of the individual local inquiry repeat across the country that would enable we to well protect victim in the future , how will we co - ordinate that ? turn to the previous question , will she explain why she believe that the statutory footing be not the right way to go and that the localise way will ensure that we get to the truth ? my hon . friend be right that we need to ensure proper follow - up where there be recommendation . there have be over 500 different recommendation , predominantly around child sexual exploitation , with many more around child sexual abuse much more widely . there be currently not a proper process to be able to follow they up . that be one of the reason why the independent inquiry talk about strengthen child protection arrangement through , for example , a child protection authority and have strong arrangement in that way . it be also one of the reason why we have say that we need a new performance framework for police to be able to have proper follow - up . obviously , we have already have a statutory seven - year inquiry into child sexual abuse and a statutory two - year investigation into child sexual exploitation and groom gang . those report come out with really important recommendation , but one of the thing that they identify be that there simply be not enough evidence or datum on the gang in particular to be able to do further work and further investigation . that be why the next step must be to have the rapid national audit that we have ask Baroness Casey to undertake to get a much more extensive assessment of the prevalence and nature of child sexual exploitation across the country . the right hon . Lady will know that I would not for one moment question her integrity , and certainly not her intent . however , I be perplex by the methodology . Baroness Casey have one or two other thing on her plate at the moment , but if she be able to deliver this audit in three month , that can only be a good thing . in her statement , she say that Tom Crowther have agree to work with the Government to develop a new framework for victim - centre locally lead inquiry where they be need — five pilot scheme . that in itself will take time , and it be kick the can down the road . we all know that the Select Committees of this House can take evidence , generate a report and publish it in short order . it do not have to take seven year — it can take less than seven month . have hear everything that the right hon . Lady have say , I can not for the life of I understand why she be so resistant , first , to a broad - base national inquiry rather than a narrow five - town inquiry and , secondly , to statutory measure that will allow that inquiry to compel witness and evidence . as the right hon . Gentleman know , the importance of any independent inquiry be the independence of the decision make by the chair about how it should be pursue . the inquiry lead by Baroness Jay into child sexual abuse take seven year — that be a decision make independently by Baroness Jay and the panel . they take evidence from 7 , 000 victim right across the country . they pursue detailed investigation in different area , include into church , religious organisation , residential home and school . the inquiry into child sexual exploitation and groom gang on our street take two year . first , we want a rapid audit that fill the gap that be leave by the independent inquiry , such as on the scale and characteristic of child sexual exploitation across the country . that work will rightly be do by Baroness Casey . secondly , we want more police investigation under way , include the victim ' right to review . thirdly , we want Tom Crowther to be able to work with other area where there be local failing and problem , to pursue successful local inquiry such as Telford , to get to the heart of local failure and make sure that there be accountability . I remain shocked that only two mp step up and attend and participate in the Alexis Jay five - year inquiry into child sex abuse — my hon . friend the Member for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) and Lord Mann , when he be the Bassetlaw MP . as its new MP , it be my duty and responsibility to carry on that fight for justice . where grooming gang have be operate , whether they be white , pakistani - origin or church gang , or take place behind the closed door of private home , the bright light of an inquiry will expose who they be , where the cover - up be and who be responsible . every single perpetrator should be hunt down and jail . I have no time for the grandstander or the people who turn a blind eye . this be the big challenge of our Parliament . I find it stunning that the shadow Justice Secretary , the right hon . member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) , be not in his place for this critical statement . inquiry in area where the gang operate will give sick and evil perpetrator no place to hide . national oversight for Government be essential , ensure swift legal action and the mapping of gang , their link and their co - ordination — when and where they be ferry girl across county line . do the Home Secretary agree that we need to end this tyranny of child abuse and put word into action ? I agree . these terrible crime have be ignore for too long . there be currently 127 major police operation under way on child sexual exploitation and gang grooming , across 29 different police force . the independent inquiry identify that child sexual exploitation happen across all police force area and all community . all area should ensure that they have the proper system in place to follow up on what be happen to miss child , such as the vulnerable kid who stay out overnight , or those who go miss from residential care home . too often , that be still not happen and too often , we still get report , even though those be basic thing that all police force and local authority should be do . that be why we have strengthen the power for victim to get a review , and that be why we be require police force to look back at historical case , because we know that case be not be report and not be investigate . that be where the fast action need to be , to go after the perpetrator who be still on our street and still get away with it . they will continue to do so unless police force and local council work together to put perpetrator behind bar . I refer the House to the Register of Members ' Financial Interests and particularly to the fact that I be a director of whistleblowersuk , a not - for - profit organisation . I be the last remain MP of the seven Members of the House of Commons who originally call on Theresa May to hold an independent inquiry into child sexual abuse . my experience be also on the record . I therefore particularly welcome the acceptance of Professor Alexis Jay ' s recommendation and Baroness Louise Casey ' s rapid review into child sexual exploitation . may I , however , draw the Home Secretary ' s attention to my concern about police investigation ? she have refer to the matter of the National Police Chiefs ' Council and to reopen case , but I be concern about people mark their own homework and we know that there be an institutional resistance to be find lacking and to deep scrutiny . one of the primary whistleblower with whom I be involve have wait year for the truth to out , and senior police officer have threaten to sue she . it would appear that complaint can only be make about junior officer who be call and investigate , and that there be no ability to complain about senior officer . I ask the Home Secretary to look at the Independent Police Complaints Commission and the Independent Office for Police Conduct report , whether they have be publish or not — particularly where they have not be publish — and where there have be threat , as I understand it , from the police to sue member of those organisation about their finding . it be incredibly serious that we have organisation such as the ipcc and the IOPC — Order . I call the Home Secretary . I be happy to follow up with the hon . Lady about the very serious issue she raise . she be right that this can not be about institution just mark their own homework . that be one of the reason why we have make the right to review an independent one . for child sexual abuse case , where victim feel that they have be let down by a police force or the Crown Prosecution Service , they should be able to take that right to review not back to the same police force , but to an independent child sexual abuse panel to get a right to review in order to see whether they can get their case reopen and properly investigate and see perpetrator pursue . the hon . Lady will also know that there be other route to hold police force to account , include the police inspectorate . although it can currently make recommendation — for example , it have just find serious failing in Cleveland police ' s response to child sexual exploitation — too often , those recommendation be not follow up because there be no power to do so . that be why we will also be change the police performance management framework to strengthen the ability of the inspectorate and the Home Office to ensure that action be take to improve performance and implement recommendation for improvement where serious problem be find . I be happy to talk to the hon . Lady about the wide policing reform need to make sure there be accountability . I welcome the statement from the Home Secretary . I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Bolsover ( Natalie Fleet ) , who be not in her place , for share her story — I know it be very difficult to do — and for her continued work to support victim . it be really important that we finally act for victim and survivor , and I welcome that the Home Secretary will be act on the inquiry ' s recommendation . I urge she to make public the monitoring of the progress of those action and to return to the House to provide regular update on those action . my hon . friend be right . we will need a process to keep the House up to date on the next step and action that be take forward . we will do that through the victim and survivor panel that will be establish by the Safeguarding Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) , and through regular update on the work of the cross - departmental group of Ministers to pursue and take forward the recommendation . I welcome today ' s announcement ; it be great to see some progress . I will not cover what have be say about the legal power , but I be interested in the funding . when I lead a commission in Plymouth , the money to pay for it come from the local authority ' s in - year budget . I appreciate the £ 7 million in total that have be announce . however , the Home Secretary have talk a lot about the police . what additional funding will they receive to do this work on a local level ? what additional funding will there be for the practicality of hold these inquiry , outside the five initial local authority ? what funding will come forward for the intervention that might be recommend follow the inquiry ? we know that local authority be incredibly cash - strapped , and this could potentially disincentivise they to follow through on these local inquiry . finally , be that £ 7 million new money go into the violence against woman and girl budget , or be it money that would have be spend elsewhere ? on the funding to support the various measure we be take forward , we have identify up to £ 10 million for additional investment to support further action . however , I can not stress enough that this have to be part of the mainstream work that agency , police force and local council do , because tackle child sexual exploitation and abuse can not just be an add - on . it can not be something that be do only if there be a particular announcement from the government — it have to be do as part of the core responsibility of police force and local council and include in their funding . that be why we want our mission to halve violence against woman and girl to be the central mission right across agency and right across the Government , as well . I appreciate that this be a very sensitive subject , but if the question be long and the answer be just as long , we will get very few people in . Chris Murray , show we how it be do . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . in her report , Alexis Jay note that one in 20 boy and one in six girl in the United Kingdom be estimate to be a victim of sexual abuse . we have have scandal after scandal of groom in care home , council , school and church for decade . I welcome the appointment of Baroness Casey on the rapid review into grooming , and welcome that it will be rapid , because these victim deserve justice . it be unbelievable to my mind that groom be not an aggravate factor in the sentencing of child sexual offender . will the Home Secretary restate her commitment to make it an aggravating factor , and commit to that be do quickly and by force , so that child sexual offender be properly punish by the law ? my hon . friend be right . the inquiry identify that half a million child be victim of sexual abuse every year . the majority of case be , sadly , within the family — a betrayal by those from whom child should be able to expect protection . however , as he say , there have also be huge betrayal in residential home and other institution , include faith institution — the Church of England and the Catholic Church — as well as wider groom online and on the street as part of these terrible crime . so yes , we will change the law , strengthen sentencing and make groom an aggravate factor , because the punishment should fit this terrible crime . there be much to welcome in the Home Secretary ' s statement , but she have resist six invitation from hon . member to confirm that the government - support local inquiry will have statutory power . instead , she be rely on the duty of candour , responsibility and accountability , so let I try it a different way . be the Home Secretary 100 % certain that the duty of candour , responsibility and accountability be equivalent to statutory power ? what we need to do be to ensure that the crime be investigate and that there be proper follow - up in those area where thing have go badly wrong — and we know that there be some area where thing have go badly wrong . the first stage have to be for the police to have full power to pursue these crime and to follow wherever the evidence take they in order to put perpetrator behind bar . frankly , that be where they should be to protect child and keep they safe . we also need to ensure that where thing have go wrong , there be sufficient power to be able to get to the truth and sufficient ability for local organisation to do that , so that no one can hide from accountability , run away or obfuscate , or use bureaucracy to get away with provide the answer , the justice and the accountability that victim need . that be why we have set up a new programme of work to look at how we can strengthen the power available and the accountability available . part of that have to be the duty of candour . it also have to include the duty to report , because there have to be strong responsibility on people to report child abuse in the first place and we have to make it a criminal offence to cover it up . if the law be not strong enough , we will not get the accountability or the action . I encourage Opposition Members to heed the appeal from the hon . member for Eastbourne ( Josh Babarinde ) to stop score party political point on such an important and sensitive subject . I welcome the Home Secretary ' s announcement , in particular the Government ' s commitment to take action to protect victim and secure justice by accelerate investigation and prosecution . can the Home Secretary confirm that the support be there so that police force such as West Yorkshire have the resource they need to investigate and prosecute the perpetrator of these horrible crime ? we have increase the resource for police force across the country by up to £ 1 billion next year . it be really important that all police force see these kind of crime , against some of the most vulnerable people in society , as part of the core work that they must do on public protection and keep people safe . I start by pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Keighley and Ilkley ( Robbie Moore ) for his persistent campaign to get an inquiry into Keighley and Bradford . Scotland be not immune from groom gang . indeed , a survivor expert fear that groom gang be operate in every town and city in Scotland . what discussion have the Home Secretary have with the Scottish Government to ensure there be a unified and co - ordinate approach across the United Kingdom ? lastly , just to add my voice to those of other in the Chamber , why on earth can the inquiry not be back by statute ? the Inquiries Act 2005 give all the accountability and assurance that victim and community need to ensure process be follow properly . the hon . Gentleman be right to talk about the child sexual exploitation and abuse that take place in every corner of the United Kingdom . obviously , on the issue that involve police force , the Home Office have responsibility for the police force in England and Wales . therefore , some of the change we be make around the review panel , and around performance management and proper datum in these area , will apply to England and Wales police force . however , we be also work with the National Police Chiefs ' Council , which as he will know work very closely with Police Scotland to ensure there be a national approach . I would also say that we have the nationwide inquiry into both child sexual abuse more widely and child sexual exploitation . it be really important that we fill the gap in the evidence and that we take forward those recommendation , alongside support those area where there have be particular problem to get to the truth . I welcome today ' s news that Baroness Casey will conduct a rapid review of the scale and nature of groom gang offence . have serve as deputy police and crime commissioner on the frontline in Lancashire , I know that much exploitation and abuse go unreported and unidentified in town such as Blackpool , and that the figure be a significant underestimate . what will the Government do to ensure that system be in place that enable these crime to be report and command the confidence of victim and survivor ? my hon . friend be right to say that it should be easy to report crime , but I also think there should be a proactive duty on police force , local authority and child protection authority to pursue the evidence of where these crime be take place even when they be not be report . if kid be go miss from home , and particularly from residential care home , they may not be report crime partly because they be be groom and exploit . as well as make it easy for victim to come forward and disclose the terrible thing that have happen to they , we should ensure that those authority have a responsibility to pursue crime wherever they be find . I be usually measure when I come here , but it worry I that the Labour Government seem to be play we for fool today . the Home Secretary have pick five out of 50 town and provide no statutory power . she have announce a review by the incredibly able Baroness Casey , but Baroness Casey be already conduct a review of social care , and this review be not a review ; it be an audit . be not the truth that the good member on the other side of the House go back to their constituency — and there be many across the country — and recognise the strength of feeling among the public about the need for a national inquiry ? member on this side of the Chamber get it , and most of the Back Benchers on the Home Secretary ' s side get it . why do she not swallow her pride and launch a national inquiry ? let I just say that I be one of those who call for the independent inquiry into child sexual abuse very many year ago , and that I also support the two - year investigation by that independent inquiry into child sexual exploitation , as well as some of its other investigation . however , we also have a responsibility to act . when more than 500 recommendation from inquiry be just sit there with dust gathering on they , we have to ensure that we get action , include the audit that we need from Baroness Casey , who will be proceed with that for three month before the commission on social care get go . it be also important for we to have strong police investigation — because if the police investigation do not happen , no one will get the protection they need — and for Tom Crowther to work with the first local area that want to take forward local inquiry in order to develop a model and a programme that can be use in other area , wherever it be need . child sexual exploitation be without a shadow of a doubt the most disgusting , degrade crime imaginable , and we must at all time have the victim at the forefront of our mind . when conservative member table amendment to important legislation that they know will not result in an inquiry but will block child protection measure , and then spend the subsequent day spread misinformation , they be let victim down . I welcome the national audit of groom gang , and I welcome the reopening of the police investigation to ensure that criminal be bring to justice , but may I check one point with the Home Secretary ? she say a number of time that the five local area she have identify be initial , pilot area . be it the ambition that wherever these crime be take place , local inquiry can take place ? my hon . friend be exactly right . wherever there be serious problem or failing and it be believe that local inquiry be need , we want those area to be able to conduct the kind of effective local inquiry that Telford be able to conduct , rather than have to start from scratch . Tom Crowther will work with five area so that he can draw up conclusion about how we can most effectively learn the lesson of what happen in Telford , where victim and survivor feel support and also feel that they deliver change — that thing have actually happen as a result — rather than have inquiry whose recommendation just sit on a shelf , let everyone down . as well as withhold court transcript , I have be push the Ministry of Justice for datum on the following : how many pakistani or other foreign rapist have be deport , be still in prison , do not serve a custodial sentence , be back in the same community as their victim , have previous conviction or have reoffende , with a full nationality breakdown of those involve in the gang . the response be that the request information " be not centrally identify in the data system relevant to these question . " if this be a state inquiry into the private sector , it would be accuse of negligence . my view be that we need a full national inquiry . this be a rotting stain on our country , and it need to be exorcise in full . it can not continue to be kick into the long grass . the british public want transparency , and they want to know why this have take so long to be deal with . we do believe that well , more comprehensive datum need to be collect . that be why I have say that the overall datum on child sexual abuse need to be overhaul , with immediate change to the gathering of datum on ethnicity of both perpetrator and victim , because the system we inherit from the previous Government simply be not strong enough . we will need further change as well . on the issue of foreign national offender , where foreign citizen have commit sexual offence in this country , they have no right to stay in this country , and we have to increase return . that be why , rightly , this Government have increase return of foreign national offender by over 20 % since the election . I welcome the announcement the Home Secretary have make today . disclose abuse be a very difficult thing to do . many victim speak out , but too often their word be not hear , they be not take seriously or they fall between multiple agency . will the Secretary of State investigate how we can assist victim to disclose in the first place and ensure that agency act on those disclosure ? my hon . friend be right to make that important point . by establish a victim and survivor panel to work with the safeguarding Minister and other Ministers on take forward recommendation around sexual abuse , we want to make sure we be recognise those experience and exactly how difficult it can be to come forward . People need to have the confidence that if they do come forward to do something incredibly difficult , they will be listen to , they will be take seriously and investigation will follow . I thank the Secretary of State for her in - depth explanation of what the Government be and will be do to ensure the safety of our child in the face of the most heinous crime . since the vote on the amendment to the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill last week and the subsequent attention that it attract in the medium , many of my constituent have write to I upset , angry and in fear over the grooming scandal . all the correspondence I have receive demand a public inquiry into this scandal , to determine the failure — both historical and present — of the institution involve that allow these heinous crime against vulnerable child to go on for so long and so widely , without be stop and without the victim be safeguard and protect sufficiently . I finish by ask the Home Secretary to confirm whether , in northern town like my Blackburn constituency , crime of this specific nature and grooming gang continue to haunt our street and vulnerable child . can she confirm that further public inquiry and report be need to find out why this have go on for such a long time ? we need to provide my constituent and everybody across the country with solace . the independent inquiry into child sexual abuse and the two - year inquiry into child sexual exploitation conclude that child sexual exploitation be happen right across the country and that action be need across the country . the taskforce report that there be currently 127 major police operation under way on child sexual exploitation and gang groom across 29 police force . that be why it be so important that recommendation from those inquiry be implement and that we get action to protect child and young people who too often be let down when inquiry recommendation be ignore . rise — Order . I need member to work with I so that we can get in the final 10 question ; otherwise , there will be a lot of disappointment . if member have not be here and bob throughout , there be no point in they try to catch my eye now . I welcome the Home Secretary ' s statement , which be full of action . I be pleased that last week I support the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill so that we can start implement much - need safeguard measure — unlike some conservative Members , who attempt to wreck the Bill and spread misinformation , which lead to online abuse towards many member . do the Home Secretary share my concern about the most rapidly evolve form of child sexual abuse take place online , include through artificial intelligence - facilitate child sexual abuse material ? can she outline what plan the Government have to strengthen the law in this area ? my hon . friend be exactly right . in addition to the measure in the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill , include on the proper identification of child to strengthen child protection , which be crucial , we need much strong measure to tackle online abuse and exploitation . I be really worried about the pace at which this problem be escalate , about the fact that it involve online grooming , abuse and indecent image , and about the impact of draw young people into contact abuse . we will bring forward new law in this area . can my right hon . friend confirm that the new victim and survivor panel will have representation from region across the country to ensure that victim ' voice be hear loud and clear ? do she agree that we need to dial down the political opportunism that we have sadly see from some member on the Opposition Benches ? yes , the victim and survivor panel will include people from right across the country . the inquiry into child sexual abuse have cross - party support , and I really hope that there will be cross - party support for implement the action that we need , which I have set out today . as my hon . friend the Member for Rugby ( John Slinger ) point out , the victim and survivor panel really need countrywide representation . give that I be a Welsh MP , can the Secretary of State confirm that Welsh voice will be hear loud and clear ? we will ensure that Welsh voice be hear loud and clear . many of my constituent have contact I to share their concern about child abuse and child exploitation . they will be relieve that , unlike the previous Government , this Government be no long allow this matter to be kick into the long grass and be take action , not least through Baroness Casey ' s rapid review . I think my constituent will be concern that the official figure woefully underestimate the scale and nature of groom activity . how can the Home Secretary reassure the House , I and my constituent that in future the reporting system will be such that they can guarantee the confidence of victim and survivor ? my hon . friend be right . some of this be about give victim and survivor the confidence to come forward and report abuse , some of it be about get agency and organisation to take seriously the risk factor so that they identify potential crime and pursue they , and some of it be about make sure that we have much strong datum requirement on police force and local authority so that we collect information and datum . that be the first recommendation of the independent inquiry , and we be take it forward . it have not be take forward for far too long . I be grateful to the Secretary of State for her statement . there be victim and survivor in many community , include in my constituency , and I welcome the step that she have announce . I commend the contribution from my hon . friend the Member for Bolsover ( Natalie Fleet ) and the hon . member for Eastbourne ( Josh Babarinde ) . do the Home Secretary agree that the voice that matter when we discuss how we tackle these issue be not those of billionaire , politician or talk show host seek to weaponise the pain and suffering of victim and survivor ? above all , we should be listen to victim and survivor themselves . my hon . friend be right . we need to make sure that victim and survivor be at the heart of this issue . seven thousand victim and survivor give evidence to the independent inquiry , which be a really hard thing to do . we owe it to they to make sure there be action as a result of their testimony , rather than just leave the inquiry to sit on a shelf . a number of constituent have contact I on this serious issue , and I have make it clear that I would welcome any further inquiry that be able to command the support of expert and victim and to build on the recommendation of the Jay report , rather than choose to ignore they or delay action . will my right hon . friend confirm that that be exactly what she set before the House this afternoon ? do she believe , as I do , that on this basis these measure should command support from across the House ? I hope these measure command cross - party support because , ultimately , we need strong action from the police and local authority , from across Government and from across community to do the thing that , for more than 10 year , we have be tell need to change , and yet for too long simply have not change . that be why we urgently need this action to keep child safe . I welcome the Home Secretary ' s statement on the action she will take to implement Professor Alexis Jay ' s recommendation . Professor Jay make another set of recommendation on which my constituent have be campaign — those on safeguarding in the Church of England . Professor Jay call for an independent process for the oversight and operation of safeguarding in the Church . the Synod be discuss this next month , but do the Home Secretary agree that measure must be bring forward to be approve by the House without delay ? my hon . friend be right to point out that there be many further inquiry as part of the overarch national inquiry into child abuse , include on Church and faith organisation . some of the recommendation be for those organisation to take forward . they need to ensure that they do , that they be respond and that they have strong enough child protection arrangement in place . we will be monitor and look at the recommendation of all those report . I thank the Home Secretary for her answer , which have clarify a number of the question I would have want to raise with she . I be also grateful for her victim - centre approach . one of the challenge be that , when a child be be groom for sexual exploitation , they do not always know that they be a victim until they be an adult , live haunt by the past . what more can be do to help child recognise what be happen in their life ? I welcome my hon . friend ' s important point . part of our wide work on tackle violence against woman and girl be to ensure that child and young people have the confidence to be able to recognise abuse and exploitation . I know the Education Secretary take this immensely seriously and be look at how to take it forward . child sexual exploitation be a vile crime that violate the trust , safety and dignity of child . perpetrator of such despicable crime — individual or group , no matter their race , religion or creed — must face the full force of the law . I commend the Home Secretary for her statement and the step it set out , especially on victim ' right to review . so many victim feel that the authority have neglect their position . can the Home Secretary please give a timetable , even an estimate , for the duty of candour ? I be sure she know that justice delay be justice deny . work be under way on draw up the Hillsborough law , which be part of the King ' s Speech to be take forward as a priority in this session . that work be be do across the Cabinet Office , with Ministry of Justice support , and it be part of the wide work on make sure there can be proper accountability where thing fail and where people be let down , alongside both the duty of candour and the duty to report . well do to everyone who keep their question short . we get everybody in . I thank the Home Secretary . Backbench Business Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency I beg to move , that this House note that the Medicines and Healthcare product Regulatory Agency ( MHRA ) continue to need substantial reform , as recognise by the Independent Medicines and Medical Devices Safety Review ( IMMDS ) , with patient safety concern persist and exacerbating since the review ' s publication in 2020 ; believe that the MHRA ' s 2017 expert working group report on Primodos be deeply flawed , with IMMDS later conclude the drug have cause avoidable harm ; further note that the yellow card system for report suspect adverse drug reaction be fail , with no process for follow up on serious or fatal reaction and conflict of interest , with 75 % of the MHRA ' s funding be derive from industry fee , a concern raise in the Fourth Report of Session 2004 - 05 of the Health Committee , the Influence of the Pharmaceutical Industry , HC 42 - I , publish on 5 April 2005 ; also note the MHRA ' s delay response to report of myocarditis , pericarditis and vaccine - induce thrombotic thrombocytopaenia follow covid - 19 vaccination , despite action from regulator in other country ; and call on the Government to fully implement the recommendation in the IMMDS review and to acknowledge the harm do to patient and the financial burden on the healthcare system as a result of the MHRA ' s widespread regulatory failure . I thank the Backbench Business Committee for grant this debate and the many colleague from across the House who support my application for it , especially the hon . member for Blackley and Middleton South ( Graham Stringer ) , and also the hon . member for Bolton South and Walkden ( Yasmin Qureshi ) and for Great Yarmouth ( Rupert Lowe ) . the Medicines and Healthcare product Regulatory Agency be the body responsible for ensure the safety and efficacy of medicine use in the UK . its job be to oversee medical product , medicine , medical device and blood component for transfusion . the responsibility it have be extremely important , as it come with the potential not only to change people ' s live for the well , but to cause serious harm — even death — if poor decision be make or safety signal be miss . the MHRA be require to scrutinise application from the pharmaceutical company for new product and device and to remain ever vigilant over exist drug should safety problem arise post - authorisation . it have to weigh up the argument for and against these product and device . after all , the company try to get these product on to the market — and to keep they there — be drive , as all industry be , by commercial success . it be up to the MHRA to balance that with the health and safety of the UK and the public . alarm bell rang for many of we when , in March 2022 , Dame June Raine , the chief executive of the MHRA , boast of the agency ' s transition from watchdog to enabler . twenty year ago , the Health Committee report , " the Influence of the Pharmaceutical Industry " , find that the MHRA be unusual in be one of the few european agency " fund entirely by fee derive from service to industry " . not much have change since , with the MHRA continue to get 75 % of its funding from the pharmaceutical industry . in this context , the agency ' s transition from watchdog to enabler do little to quell suspicion of conflict and the implication that have for patient safety . one of the most worrying issue be the MHRA ' s mismanagement of the yellow card system . establish in 1964 , the system be a way for patient , relative and healthcare professional to report suspect adverse reaction to drug or medical device . the reporting scheme should be a valuable source of information about possible harm , and act as an early warning system , but there be gross under - report to it . as the IMMDS ' s 2020 review put it , the system be " too complex and too diffuse to allow early signal detection . " under - reporting be a big problem because it make it difficult to spot safety signal and assign causation . that then translate into unnecessary harm or death , with devastating side effect from treatment go unnoticed for year , month or even decade . that be recognise by the IMMDS review lead by Baroness Cumberlege in the case of Primodos , sodium valproate and surgical mess — I mean to say mesh , though perhaps the word should have be " mess . " accord to research from Bangor University in 2019 , potentially avoidable adverse drug reaction cost the NHS £ 2 . 2 billion a year in hospital admission . in 2018 , the MHRA estimate that only 10 % of serious reaction and between 2 % and 4 % of non - serious reaction be report . more recently , it have claim that report rate for covid vaccine be well due to high public awareness , but it have not be able to point to publish evidence to back up that claim . the yellow card be currently a voluntary scheme that doctor and member of the public can report to , but I echo call from the Sling the Mesh campaign and other for the UK to follow the example of Denmark and Sweden by make it mandatory for all healthcare professional to report suspect adverse reaction . let I turn to the MHRA ' s failure to act promptly on evidence of adverse reaction . we have see that historically . for example , sodium valproate be know to cause harm to unborn baby in the 1980 , yet the MHRA do not establish a valproate pregnancy prevention plan until 2018 . the known harm to unborn baby be allow to persist for over 30 year . more recently , in 2021 , the MHRA react slowly to strong signal that there be a serious problem with the AstraZeneca vaccine cause an autoimmune condition call vaccine - induce thrombotic thrombocytopenia . Denmark and other european country suspend the vaccine for all age group on 11 March 2021 . the MHRA , by contrast , only start to restrict the vaccine in some age group nearly two month later , on 7 May — yet there be a signal in the yellow card report as early as 8 February . how many people be needlessly expose to a risk ? my right hon . friend hit on an important point . what action do the MHRA take to apologise for or explain its failure to give adequate and timely warning to potential patient ? I do not believe that the MHRA have take such action . we be probably still wait for it . hopefully , that will come out . People be also either not get compensation quickly enough or not receive compensation that be commensurate with the illness and damage cause to they . it be worth note what happen when the Daily Telegraph report on the potential causal link between the AstraZeneca vaccine and blood clot in March 2021 . the journalist who write the story receive a threatening call from the MHRA warning that the Telegraph would be ban from future briefing and press notice if it do not soften the news — an extremely defensive approach for an agency whose No . 1 strategic objective be to maintain public trust through transparency and proactive communication . do that sound like an agency that be do its good to maintain public trust , let alone patient safety ? it be clear that the system do not work . we have good evidence that suspect adverse reaction be under - report , but what about the one that be report ? we know from freedom of information request that the MHRA do not have a process for investigate and follow up individual yellow card report . we know that the retrieval of follow - up information from the yellow card database still require manual extraction and that only 54 % of death report as possibly link to exposure to one of the covid - 19 vaccine be follow up by the MHRA . that be extremely worrying or , as Matt Hancock infamously describe it in a 2021 WhatsApp message , " shonky " . the chief medical officer , Chris Whitty , reply to that message by say that the system " need to get well " . another long - stand problem with the MHRA be its lack of transparency . take foi to the agency as an example . between 2008 and 2017 , only 41 % of request be successful . in 2021 , 76 % be answer outside the 20 - work - day statutory response time . a culture of delay and secrecy have emerge , and MHRA ' s behaviour around the Commission on Human Medicines meeting for the covid - 19 vaccine benefit risk expert working group show that beyond any doubt . minute of the meeting be publish just last month , four year after they take place — why the delay ? they be stuff full of redaction that leave we with many more question than answer , particularly as to why the new vaccine be continually describe as safe and effective . in the meeting on 18 November 2020 , the expert work group ask if Pfizer be " require to respond to the 36 question ask by MHRA " . in response , the MHRA confirm that " there be no formal obligation to reply " . why be there no formal obligation to reply ? surely it be essential , when make such an important decision as to whether to allow a new vaccine to be roll out to the nation , to have those reply . the minute do not specify the 36 question . indeed , they do not appear to have be mention again . I ask a write question last week to see whether , in the spirit of openness and transparency , the MHRA would publish those question and any answer receive from Pfizer . the response be that the MHRA do not intend to publish those question or any subsequent response . why not ? be this not a matter of public interest ? those issue be not resolve before the MHRA give the green light to start the vaccination of the nation . particularly worrying be the issue of lymphopenia , where blood do not have enough white blood cell , which be report in phase 1 of the trial and then go away — not because they fix the problem , but because testing for the condition be not conduct in phase 2 or 3 . in summary , the failure to act on the weakness of the MHRA will lead only to more harm and further damage to the public ' s trust in the pharmaceutical agency and those task with regulate it . my hope be that the debate will help bring those wide - range issue far to light and focus the Minister ' s mind on find solution . I will end on the word of Dr Tom Jefferson of the University of Oxford : " you can not support both secrecy and vaccination . request datum be not a sign of be against drug or vaccine ; it show that you favour transparency . those who try to keep datum confidential and criticise those who ask for evidence be anti an evidence - base approach . how can you have inform consent if you do not know precisely what be happen ? " on that point , do my right hon . friend accept that one of the consequence of the lack of transparency have be a public distrust of vaccine , which be spread rapidly ? as a consequence , for example , there be less take - up of MMR vaccine than there should be and use to be , and that be because of a lack of trust in the system . my hon . friend make a good point . if people lose trust in vaccine , the pharmaceutical industry and the regulatory agency , that be precisely what happen . we know that these vaccine be essential to many people , so we do not want that happen . we want to ensure that new vaccine and medicine come into use be thoroughly test and that , along the way , we keep an overall watch on whether they be work correctly . it be a pleasure to follow the right hon . member for Tatton ( Esther McVey ) . I agree with every word she say . it be late in the day for a Thursday , so I will try not to repeat many of the piece of evidence and argument that she propose , but they be all valuable contribution to this debate . I will start by talk about the attitude of member of Parliament and politician to regulation in general . a long time ago , I have responsibility in the Cabinet Office for deal with well regulation . I travel around the country to look at business that complain about regulation and see how those regulation could be make well — that be 18 month of my life that I will never get back . I come to a number of conclusion after that . politician have a knee - jerk reaction when it come to regulation . if a child die , if there be a fire , or if there be another disaster of some sort , there be a cry from both side of the House for more regulation — not necessarily well regulation and enforcement , but more regulation — when , in many case , regulation be already there but inspection and enforcement have not take place . the other knee - jerk response , which my Government be give at the moment , be to say , " regulation be burdensome so we will try to get rid of some of they . " I do not think that either of those response deal with the issue . we set up regulator — this afternoon we be talk about the MHRA — but , by and large , once they be set up , mp and Ministers abdicate responsibility and do not consider they until there be a crisis . when I have that responsibility , I go to see the European Medicines Agency — this be some time before we leave the EU . one of the surprising thing I find — or maybe it be not so surprising — be that I be the only Minister who have be anywhere near the place . it be the major european agency that this country get after the Maastricht treaty . it have wide - range and important power , to deal both with the market and with regulation , but nobody bother with it . if there have be a crisis , however , Ministers and shadow Ministers would have be queue up to go there . if there be a lesson , particularly in relation to the MHRA , it be that we should look at regulator — be they water , medicine or other regulator — all the time . we can not as a Government and MPs abdicate our responsibility , because we then come to a crisis , and the electorate say , " well , what be you do ? " and the answer be , " not a lot ; we have pass that on . " those water regulator or medical regulator might be , as the right hon . Lady show , pretty useless . we should be look at they all the time . I be a member of the Science and Technology Committee in 2012 . partly because of that experience , and partly because there be a lot of press discussion and debate about metal hip that be squeak and not work very well when they have be implant and about breast implant that be fall apart , potentially damaging and poison the recipient , we have an inquiry that report in October of that year . I will read out some of the comment from the witness we hear from about the MHRA , because they be be repeat now . they be very similar to what the right hon . member for Tatton say about the MHRA ' s response — secretive and slow . for instance , there be evidence that there be problem with metal hip for four year before the MHRA take any action whatsoever . nearly 14 year later , it still have the same problem . I ask Dr Heneghan from the Centre for evidence - base Medicine at the University of Oxford who have authorise those metal hip . his answer be extraordinary : " nobody know . I don ' t know — nobody know . " it be a different regulatory regime then , because we be part of the European Union . anybody who have the competence — or at least the authority — in any country in the EU could give authorisation , but nobody know which body have do it , and whether that body be compose of competent people and what evidence they have use to do so . however , when the MHRA find out , it do nothing for four year . that be disgraceful , and there be all sort of comment that I can give the House . one be from Dr Stephen o ' Connor at the Institute of Physics and Engineering , who say that the MHRA be overly bureaucratic relative to other competent body , inefficient , and difficult to deal with . as the right hon . member for Tatton show , the MHRA do not answer FOI request , and it do not tell we what be go on . the Lancet say about the breast implant , which I will talk about next , that the MHRA be in paralysis and in need of reform . again , that be a long time ago . it be a different issue with the breast implant , because the MHRA be deal with a fraudulent product — the product that have be authorise be not the product that be be sell to surgeon to be implant in woman . however , the Committee ask for there to be random and regular testing of the body that be responsible for manufacture those implant . I do not expect the Minister to know at this time , but will she check whether the authority have do any of those randomised test on those body ? that be the history . the right hon . member for Tatton have basically analyse what be go on now , but I will just talk about what we learn during the covid period . we learn that many of the NHS ' s constituent part — although not the clinician — be secretive . early today in the Chamber , we talk about the Government ' s response to the first part of the covid inquiry . at the present time , that inquiry be not get to part of what go wrong during covid , which be the fact that the NHS do not tell we what be go on , and there be also a restriction on political debate . if we be to get the good policy in any crisis , and in the regular turn of event outside crisis , we need transparency so that we know how thing can be improve and what we can criticise . the right hon . Lady make the excellent point that keep thing secret encourage people who do not trust vaccine and have odd theory about how society be control not to take the protection from vaccine . we know that no medicine be 100 % safe , and there be no point in pretend they be safe , but vaccine have save many life over decade — more than decade ; over a century — and it be good for society and for individual that people understand that , and they will be less trusting if we do not tell they what be go on . as recently as a few minute ago , I get an email tell I that the UK Health Security Agency be still refuse to release the cost of the bird flu vaccine it have purchase . what possible reason can there be for not say how much public money have be spend on a good cause ? have vaccine ready for any flu epidemic be a good thing because it save people ' s live , as we have be discuss . why should it be keep secret ? could the Minister to respond to that ? be there any Member in the House who think that turn the MHRA , in the right hon . Lady ' s phrase , from a watchdog to an enabler be a good idea , or even know what it mean and what be be enable ? I certainly do not know what be be enable , but one of the thing we should remember be that the MHRA and the whole of the health industry be swim in a sea of pharmaceutical shark . pharmaceutical company produce some extraordinarily wonderful product that keep we safe , but they also produce huge profit , and sometimes they get their product on to the market by tell lie , or certainly by sin of omission . everybody know about the thalidomide case , and how long it take to prove it and to get compensation for the victim . almost at random , I have pick two other case . with Paroxetine — I think that be how to pronounce it — GSK hold back information because it do not release the test that do not show a positive benefit . it also keep back test that show that Paroxetine increase the chance of child commit suicide , and it take a lot of investigation to get that — order . Mr Stringer , I assume you be come to a conclusion soon . I be . I have one sentence . I be sorry ; I do not realise I have speak for so long . lastly , Reboxetine be another example of where the information give out to doctor be inadequate because it do not show the negative test . I use those two example basically to show that the MHRA should not be enable these thing . it should be much more vigilant , and it should be ask for power to demand the right to know all the information that drug company have before it say those drug be as safe as they can be . rise — order . to enable we to get everyone in , I hope all member will be mindful of those who be to speak after they . I shall try to be brief , Madam Deputy Speaker . I follow the hon . member for Blackley and Middleton South ( Graham Stringer ) by refer to a quote from Hayek ' s book , " the Road to Serfdom " . I do not claim credit for identify it myself ; it be quote in the other place by Lord Hannan of Kingsclere on 15 January in the context of the Football Governance Bill . he be talk about the growth of the administrative state , about which the hon . Gentleman be speak at the beginning of his speech . Hayek say : " the delegation of particular task to separate body , while a regular feature , be yet only the first step in the process by which a democracy … relinquish its power " . that be in chapter 5 of " the Road to Serfdom " from 1944 , so not much have change . the MHRA be an example of what happen if we in this House transfer responsibility to unelected and unaccountable organisation . it so happen that on the Order Paper for tomorrow be my Covid - 19 Vaccine Damage Bill , which be sponsor by a former Attorney General . that Bill call for an independent review of covid - 19 vaccine damage . it call on the Secretary of State to " appoint a current or former High Court judge to lead an independent review of disablement cause by Covid - 19 vaccination administer in the United Kingdom and the adequacy of the compensation offer to person so disabled . " we know that more than 600 people have already be tell by the agency responsible at the Department of Health and Social Care that they have suffer disability as a result of covid - 19 vaccine . a large number of they , where the disability be in excess of 60 % , have be award wholly derisory payment of £ 120 , 000 each . my Bill go on : " the review must consider … the rate and extent of disablement cause by each type of Covid - 19 vaccination offer in the United Kingdom " . relevant to this debate , the review must also consider " the effectiveness of Medicines and Healthcare product Regulatory Agency monitoring of such side effect , and National Health Service and Government response to such monitoring " , as well as " the adequacy of compensation offer to person so disabled " . there have always be an agreement , basically , that if something go wrong for people who undertake vaccination voluntarily or be in receipt of other medical product — if they be do the right thing by the country at large — and they have an adverse reaction , they will be able to look to the Government or the taxpayer to pay they some recompense under the scheme to which I have refer , if causation be establish . the trust build by that scheme have be undermine by the long denial of the previous Government — and , to an extent , the current one — that any adverse reaction have be cause by the covid - 19 vaccine , other than the most minor disablement . it have also be undermine by the fact that so many people have apply for a review of their case . some people — I think more than a thousand — have be wait more than 18 month for a decision . that show that this be a low priority for the Government . I hope that when the Minister respond to the debate , she will be able to explain why the Government will block my Bill again tomorrow . if they be take this issue seriously , as they should be , they would be open to and supportive of the establishment of an independent review of disablement . order . I be set a five - minute time limit . I thank the right hon . member for Tatton ( Esther McVey ) for secure a debate on what be an incredibly important campaign in support of the reform to the MHRA . I would like to make clear my interest as an officer of the all - party parliamentary group on Primodos . I will focus on the human case for reform . I would like to share part of a speech deliver at a recent appg meeting by Jason Farrell , a journalist who have be instrumental in communicate the campaign for some time and who powerfully put into word the experience of Marie Lyon and other victim . he say : " in October 1970 , in Billinge maternity ward in Wigan , a woman give birth to a girl . the baby be quickly rush out of sight and later bring back swaddle . when Marie Lyon unwrap her daughter , she discover half her baby ' s arm be miss . meanwhile , in Portsmouth , Shirley Gubbins give birth . her daughter be so damaged , medic put she in a cupboard , assume she will be dead within minute . Shirley ' s husband demand to see his child and discover the baby ' s back be twist , her face disfigure , and one eye be miss . when she ' s eventually allow to see her baby , Shirley react in exactly the same way as Marie do : ' she ' s beautiful . she ' s mine . ' " as a relatively new MP , I first meet Marie Lyon , campaigner - in - chief and chairwoman of the Association for child damage by Hormone Pregnancy Tests , just a few month ago at the request of a constituent . Marie have meet many mp in her year campaign for recognition and justice for mother and child affect by hormone pregnancy test . I have not meet many campaigner like she before , and I have certainly never meet a leader with such reserve of stamina and such a profound sense of injustice . I speak here on the shoulder of victim , family , activist , mps , scientist and academic who have call for substantial reform of the MHRA and for the Government to acknowledge the harm do to patient and to implement the recommendation of the IMMDS . the harrowing story of victim of this scandal after decade of fudge , obfuscation and inaction that have hinder their pursuit of justice must be hear again and again in the Chamber . the evidence be clear . the time for talk have long pass . it be time for we now to act . I will be as quick as I can be , Madam Deputy Speaker . I want to talk about over - prescription and the vaccine . I acknowledge my role as the co - chair and past chair of the beyond pill all - party parliamentary group , which the hon . member for Stroud ( Dr Opher ) chair in this Parliament . I thank the secretariat for the great work it do to support the group . we have a crisis of over - prescription in our country , with the rate of prescription drug be give to people go up vertiginously . prescription have double over the last 12 year . nearly 9 million people — one in five adult — be on antidepressant , which be way too high a figure . many people should never have be put on these drug — they should have be offer non - chemical alternative — and they should be support to withdraw . I very much hope that the MHRA and the Government more widely will heed the call we be make on the APPG for well training of GPs , well labelling of these drug and withdrawal service for people who want to come off they . in addition to social prescribing , which I be sure the hon . member for Stroud will talk about from his experience , I want to mention the important potential role of digital therapeutic , which be not properly commission by the NHS but could be a big part of the answer . I want to talk briefly about the role of the MHRA in over - prescription , particularly with respect to anti - depressant . we know from evidence , from anecdote and from coroner ' report that ssri — selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor — can cause people to take their own life . there be dozen of document case . the most prominent of those recently have be the tragic case of Thomas Kingston , whom I know and whose family I have be speak to since his death . Tom shoot himself last February after be put on ssri . in fact , he be put on that SSRI after another SSRI cause he to feel absolutely awful , so he be put on two in very quick succession . the coroner for Gloucestershire , who conduct the inqu , recommend much clear communication of the risk of these pill , and she be not the first coroner to make that recommendation . I pay tribute to the Times for its campaigning to highlight the fact that so many coroner ' report have not be heed by the authority . I wish they have be , as it might well have save many life . the number of people who have take their life after come off SSRIs show that it be not a one - off or rare . there be many people , include one of my constituent , age only 25 , who take her life . I congratulate my hon . friend on raise this issue . what more can we do to raise awareness of the effect of withdrawal from these antidepressant ? the tragedy that we read and hear about be bring to light the chronic problem of over - prescription in our society . I be afraid that the MHRA be to blame . a review be under way , but it do not sufficiently recognise the direct harm that these pill can induce in people . I hope that through well labelling and regulation , and a well culture of alternative prescription , we can reduce the tragedy that we be so familiar with . let I quickly comment , follow on from my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) , on the experience of the MHRA during the covid epidemic . the vaccine be develop at a frantic rate . we can be very impressed by the speed of the taskforce and pay tribute to the work of the private sector , particularly our world - lead research base . the Government manage to act at great speed , largely because they bypass Whitehall . but significant question remain , which my hon . friend raise , about whether the vaccine be genuinely safe and effective . it be right that people ask question about the datum on excess death and wonder if there be a connection with the vaccine — that be not inappropriate . ultimately , there be only one way to answer that question : to have the datum . however , we do not have access to that datum . the Government hold it and , extraordinarily , they have make it available to the pharmaceutical company that produce the vaccine , but not to researcher — individual - level death datum that show who be dose with what vaccine and which of they die . in a debate in the House last April , and previously in correspondence with Ministers , I clearly and simply ask for that datum to be make available to researcher , anonymise as appropriate . the UK Health Security Agency have admit that the data exist , but have refuse to release it , almost unbelievably , because of the risk to the mental health of the relative of the dead . that beg the question , do the datum show a link between the vaccine and those death ? the information tribunal be due to rule on that matter shortly , and I fervently hope that common sense will prevail and the datum can be make available to disprove the link , so that our mind and those of our constituent can be put at rest . there be also a case with the information tribunal about the datum hold by the MHRA on the vaccine ' safety for pregnant woman . again , the agency have be withhold that datum for two year . let I finish by observe , in the light of the comment make by hon . member across the House , that we have a genuine problem with the regulation of the medical industry and of medical product . I very much welcome the appointment of r . f . Kennedy to the role of Health Secretary in the United States . he will shake thing up over there . perhaps the Minister can be our own rfk over here , and bring some genuine transparency to the health system . I thank the right hon . member for Tatton ( Esther McVey ) for secure this important debate , and I be very happy to be call to speak on such an important issue . as chair of the first do no Harm all - party parliamentary group , I be very interested in the need for MHRA reform in the context of the mesh , primodo and valproate scandal . however , for time ' s sake , I will focus my remark on MHRA reform and the mesh scandal in particular , not least because the right hon . Lady open the debate so well , and my hon . friend the Member for Bolton South and Walkden ( Yasmin Qureshi ) will speak about the Primodos scandal and I do not want to steal any of her thunder . I want to start by pay tribute to all the campaigner we have work with over so many year on the " first do no harm " report scandal , especially Kath Sanson from Sling the Mesh , Marie Lyon , who have be mention , from the Primodos campaign , and Janet Williams and Emma Murphy from the valproate campaign . I also must pay tribute to Baroness Cumberlege , who recently retire from the other place , who be the author of the independent medicine and medical device safety review and the former co - chair of the first do no Harm all - party parliamentary group . she have be a great support to I over the year . thank to her invaluable hard work highlight key recommendation to prevent future health scandal , include vital MHRA reform , we know what we need to do . now we must get on with the job . as we have hear , colleague here today be in agreement that the MHRA be in need of urgent and substantial reform . one area in particular be the need for mandatory reporting of adverse event to the yellow card by healthcare professional . contrary to response I receive when I ask question on the topic in the House , which argue that the current system work , it do not . it be break . let I be clear : the current voluntary system , which doctor enjoy , enable they to choose whether to log side effect and complication to the MHRA yellow card , be simply unacceptable . this voluntary system have lead to many adverse event go unreporte . the system must be make mandatory , but that fix alone will not work if the data be there but be not use . the information must be track and assess in real time by the MHRA , to spot trend of harm so that treatment can be stop immediately if need , to prevent the repetition of mistake and , in turn , to prevent their escalation into further health scandal , as we have see with mesh , valproate and primodo . comparison of dataset conduct by Sling the Mesh find that a whopping two third of mesh complication — some as serious as slice into bladder , bowel or through vaginal wall — be not log by healthcare professional to the MHRA yellow card . if these excruciating example be not interpret by healthcare professional as worthy of reporting , what reason do we have to trust that healthcare treatment be safe ? we need to see the MHRA at the heart of patient safety , properly and efficiently regulate and recording and not just nod treatment through like a tick - box exercise . Mesh , for example , be allow from the 1990 onwards on the basis that it be equivalent to hernia mesh . without any post - market surveillance by the MHRA , it be allow to be aggressively sell , free rein , in the UK . this ultimately lead to thousand of woman , include my very own mam , be irreversibly harm . have reporting be mandatory , the sheer scale of woman impact could have at least be reduce through spot a clear pattern of harm and put a stop to it . it be clear that we need to change the current system , and fast . Most of the scandal we be talk about today affect woman , so woman ' s voice must be take seriously . we should not have to wait until medium coverage publicly shame health scandal or documentary force account - ability and answer upon we . the MHRA need to be function and not just respond to treatment cause harm , but regulate and prevent they in the first place . surely this be the absolute least we should expect from a regulation agency that be suppose to ensure the safety and effectiveness of patient and the medicine and medical device that they receive — hence : first do no harm . I should start by alert people to my declare interest relate to the pharmaceutical industry . all of we familiar with the growth of the quango will be aware of how these unelected , unaccountable organisation have come to control and dominate british public life — not we , the democratically elect member , but the quango . failure be reward and never punish . no organisation encapsulate that point as comprehensively as the MHRA . its role be essentially to ensure that medicine and medical device be safe and effective — where have we hear those word before ? how can it possibly be trust to regulate properly when it be fund largely by the company it be task with regulating ? it be simply human nature for a conflict like this to impact on the decision - make process . the big challenge in the MHRA ' s history be the covid response , and it fail . it enable the big assault on civil liberty and economic prosperity in my lifetime , which be lockdown — the great scandal of they all . it be , quite simply , the most disgraceful period of recent history . the MHRA ' s insistence on vaccine for all enable lockdown restriction to continue for as long as they do . it must take part responsibility for the consequence : vast NHS backlog , mental health issue rife , soar alcohol - relate death , obesity booming , child ' s development wreck , long - term illness mount , increase substance abuse , domestic violence on the rise , unnoticed child neglect , father miss the birth of their child and elderly love one leave to rot and die alone . we be not even allow to mourn the dead properly . the wicked list be endless . none of it be base on any science , and certainly not the vaccination of almost the entire population — include , disgracefully , young child . this be a hideous dereliction of duty by the MHRA . it be not just child it force the covid vaccination on , but ten of million of people who have absolutely no need for it whatsoever . there be clear risk from take the vaccine — not just the initial two dose , but the booster follow they . the evidence for the vaccine be simply not there , particularly consider that by that stage , almost the entire population have actually catch the virus , which give far more effective natural protection than any man - make intervention . the MHRA know that , but it fail to act . why ? be it under political pressure not to undermine the wretched covid response ? have it be honest about the real need — or lack thereof — for population - wide vaccination , the whole case for lockdown would have collapse . as of 4 November , there have be 489 , 991 adverse reaction report from covid - 19 vaccine in the UK . those be just the report issue . what be the true number ? when individual after individual report feel far bad after take the vaccine than they ever do after the virus , should we not question whether that vaccination be necessary ? the MHRA fail . this be simply not a vaccine that be need by the entire population . we be feed the lie that take the jab would protect vulnerable love one , which be disgraceful dishonesty . the vaccine do not prevent transmission — we know that now , and we know that then . it should always have be a fully free and informed choice . if an elderly man in his 90 believe that the virus pose more of a threat than the vaccine , then let he take it . for almost everyone under 70 , that be a risk analysis that fall firmly in the camp of not have the vaccine . Don ' t even get I start on the abhorrent vaccine passport policy — one of the most evil policy devise by Government in live memory . the MHRA should have provide full and transparent datum so that educate adult could make their own decision for themselves and for their family . it must act as an independent barrier against both political expedience and corporate profit , protect public health above all else . the question be : who regulate the regulator ? who protect against regulatory capture ? how do the MHRA allow politician , celebrity and even its own agency to describe these vaccine as safe and effective , when yellow card datum clearly show it be not universally safe and certainly not universally effective ? how could MHRA CEO June Raine say she have transform the MHRA from a watchdog to an " enabler " of the pharmaceutical industry — an oxymoron for a watchdog that be mean to safeguard public health ? it be Parliament ' s duty now to exercise its sovereign power to ensure that we learn from the myriad of mistake . rise — we be go to have to drop the time limit to four minute . I call Dr Simon Opher . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I have quite a lot to say here , but I shall squeeze it into four minute . first of all , have a regulator fund by a drug company be genuinely a case of mark one ' s own homework , and we need to change that straightaway . I think we need a reform there . from clinical experience , I would also say that the yellow card system do work , but that we never get any feedback from it . that be one of the problem . the other problem be that clinically one be often not sure whether or not something be an adverse effect . we need a very easy system that can just be fire off . the right hon . member for Tatton ( Esther McVey ) mention low white blood cell , for example , and whether that be a reaction . then , when a number of different doctor get it , we can accumulate that information . if I may , I want to say a few thing about vaccination . vaccination save far , far more life than they cause damage . every medicine that have ever be invent have side effect and I do not deny vaccine side effect . however , the vaccine save hundred of thousand of life . I run the covid vaccination service in our area in Dursley . at the height of the pandemic , if we inject 180 people over 80 , we save a life — that be incredible . compare to that , the side effect rate be incredibly small . it do exist and we need to look at it , but let we not get on the back of vaccine . vaccine have save more life than anything else . I really want to talk about antidepressant , on which the hon . member for East Wiltshire ( Danny Kruger ) have already say a few word . we have a problem with over - prescribing in this country . some 8 . 7 million people be on antidepressant . my hon . friend the Member for Blackley and Middleton South ( Graham Stringer ) speak about Paroxetine cause increase risk of suicide . we need to wean ourselves off medication . National Institute for Health and Care Excellence guideline say that for mild to moderate depression we should not start tablet , yet they be start . that be because people have become a bit over - medicalise , we have 10 - minute appointment and no psychological therapy . we must also make use of social prescription , available to the NHS , where we can prescribe to patient something that be not medical . we need to de - medicalise what be go on . that can include lot of different thing , such as exercise and be very creative . in fact , yesterday I go with the Lord Mayor of Westminster and Lu Jackson to St John ' s Wood library for a Comedy - on - prescription event . make people laugh can avoid the need for medication . we need to look at those thing much more seriously and get people off tablet . the right hon . member for Tatton ( Esther McVey ) say that one of her constituent take their own life when they be try to get off antidepressant medication . the MHRA need to put warning on the packet , but it have fail to do so . we also need a support mechanism for people come off tablet . of the 8 million people on antidepressant , about 2 million be try to get off they , so it be a major problem . GPs , actually , be not that well informed about this . there be some very strong Maudsley guideline base around micro - tapering , so that people can come off slowly and safely . some kind of support service might have help her constituent and stop they take their own life . in conclusion , we have a pandemic of over - prescription and we need to start look at that . as chair of the beyond pill all - party parliamentary group , with the hon . member for East Wiltshire we be try to reduce prescription and make it safe for people to come off antidepressant . before be elect to this House I work for nearly 20 year in the pharmaceutical regulation and compliance industry . I know from first - hand experience the critical role that the MHRA must play in protect the public and its indispensable role in ensure public trust in the medical sector . my comment , therefore , come from a place of want to ensure that that trust , so painstakingly build up , continue to be strengthen . a recent survey by the Association of the British Pharmaceutical Industry find that 80 % of respondent feel the MHRA ' s lack of capacity be undermine industry trust and deter domestic investment — problem compound by Brexit , which have create obstacle to co - operation in the European Union . face with a large backlog of clinical trial application , one would imagine the obvious solution be to make more resource available to recruit and train new staff , and to rebuild relationship with our european partner . however , the Prime Minister seem more determined to demonstrate his commitment to slash red tape and the need to , as he say , " regulate smartly and regulate creatively " . I must admit I get very nervous when I hear that kind of language use in relation to the pharmaceutical industry , because it be normally code for measure that threaten safety standard even far . the need for openness , transparency and regulation be probably great than ever before . recently , I have have constituent raise with I why the animal feed additive Bovaer , which be give to cow to reduce methane , be not test or approve to MHRA pharmaceutical standard and why it be not even list on milk carton . constituent have raise concern with I about the use of carcinogenic chemical in our food . we know that a host of chemical that be ban from be use in food in the European Union be permit in the United States . it be perfectly understandable for people to fear that , amid the bonfire of red tape that the Government be plan to set alight , some thing that well protect we might go up in smoke . constituent have also raise question with I about the late impact of the covid - 19 vaccine . before anyone start accuse I of be an anti - vaxxer , I take both covid vaccine and agree that they save many life , but it be also the case that legitimate concern have be voice about long - term side effect . we now know that in the large vaccine study to date , two very rare side effect — a neurological disorder and inflammation of the spinal cord — have be detect . other study have confirm side effect include inflammation of the heart muscle and the lining around the heart , particularly in young male , as well as blood clot in the brain ' s venous sinus . today we stand united in our commitment to safeguard the health and wellbeing of our citizen . the motion highlight critical issue within the MHRA that demand our immediate attention and action . the Independent Medicines and Medical Devices Safety Review have shed light on persistent and exacerbate patient safety concern since its publication in 2020 , and it be our duty to ensure that the MHRA undergo substantial revision to address those issue . the safety of our citizen must be paramount , and we can not afford to overlook the shortcoming that have be identify . in conclusion , let we not forget that our primary responsibility be to the people we serve . we must act with urgency and determination to rectify those issue with the MHRA . by implement these recommendation , we can work towards a safe , more responsive healthcare system that prioritise patient safety and trust above corporate profit and interest I thank the right hon . member for Tatton ( Esther McVey ) for secure this important debate . my interest in the issue stem from the fact that one of my constituent , Barbara Manning , be affect by Primodos , and , along with the tireless campaigner Marie Lyon — who have already be mention today — have be seek justice ever since . for the benefit of Members who do not know this , let I explain that between 1958 and 1978 , Primodos be a hormone pregnancy test that be give to about 1 . 5 million woman in the form of pill . it be take off the market in 1978 amid concern about the effect on the unborn child of those who be pregnant , but the link have never be formally recognise by regulator or the manufacturer . some research at the time suggest that there might be an association between the drug and miscarriage , and baby bear with shortened limb , abnormality in their internal organ , brain damage and heart defect . many of those child die before reach adulthood , and of those still alive , some be blind , deaf and brain - damage . in 2017 , a report from an expert working group of the Commission on Human Medicines conclude that there be no causal association between Primodos and severe disability in baby , but there be real concern about the conflict of interest involve some of those on the expert working group and their connection to the big pharmaceutical company involve in the scandal . on 8 July 2020 , Baroness Cumberlege publish she in - depth finding on how the health system respond to report from patient about harmful side effect from medicine and medical device . on the MHRA , she say : " a regulator must work both for patient and with they . this hasn ' t be the case in the past . we be recommend that the regulator of medicine and medical device … be overhaul . it need to change and radically improve the way that concern about medicine and device be detect and act upon . the regulation of device in particular need urgent change . the MHRA need to engage more with patient and track how medicine and device improve — or fail to improve — patient ' health and quality of life . it need to raise public awareness of its role and it need to ensure that patient have a core role in its work . " the review also conclude that the state and manufacturer have a moral responsibility to provide ex gratia payment to those family who have experience avoidable harm due to their failure to remove Primodos from the market . the duty of the regulator be to protect woman . it choose to protect the manufacturer instead . thousand of woman and unborn child be expose to a risk that be widely acknowledge at the time . that should not have happen . it now fall to we to put right that injustice , to persuade the manufacturer to pay compensation to those affected family and to reform the regulatory system , so that it protect patient in the future . my interest in this matter arise as I chair the APPG on Primodos , and it be a campaign that I and many other mp have be work on for the past 12 year . on one occasion , after a big debate , the Minister order an expert work group to be set up . the MHRA be suppose to examine the evidence . we the campaigner and member of Parliament think that all the document we have would be look at by the MHRA , but clearly it do not look at they . the MHRA be suppose to engage with the victim and their family , but they be not speak to or deal with properly , and there be no thorough examination . in fact , some of the member of the expert working group , which be set up by the Commission on Human Medicines , have connection with pharmaceutical company . we want the MHRA to look at the document , which show very clearly that in the 1970 it be accept by the then Committee on Safety of Medicines that this drug be cause deformity . however , the chief medical officer at the time collude with the manufacturer , destroy the evidence and refuse to help . we have document that show that the manufacturer know there be a cover - up , and yet the MHRA refuse to look at they . subsequently , Professor Carl Heneghan from Oxford University look at the same material the EWG have look at and come to a completely different conclusion : he say the evidence show that there be a connection . the EWG be ask to look at whether there be a causal connection , and it change its recommendation again . the former Prime Minister , Mrs May , be also not convince by the expert working group . we persuade she to set up a review chair by Baroness Cumberlege , who say there be avoidable harm and that the victim should be compensate . throughout all those year , the Government of the day do not want to communicate with we , and they have not be deal with this issue properly . they have always rely on the expert working group ' s report , which have hold the victim back and hold we back from pursue a possible legal claim . we say to the Government now that the EWG report need to be relooke at , and Professor Carl Heneghan ' s study of it should also be look at . scientific evidence have be produce use an experiment on zebrafish which show that there be a link with this drug , and we have send this to the Commission on Human Medicines for the Department to look at . we must remember that this drug be 40 time the strength of the morning after pill . woman be give this pill and tell it have no effect other than to see whether they be pregnant , and it then cause this damage . I ask the Minister today , with the new Government now in place , to please relook at this ; the report by the EWG , which be set up by the MHRA , have be discredit , so please stop listen to it . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the right hon . member for Tatton ( Esther McVey ) for bring forward this really important debate and for her excellent opening speech , which be very informative . in the interest of time , I will keep my remark brief . the Medicines and Healthcare product Regulatory Agency be task with vital work , and we all agree that it be there to protect and promote public health . as a number of member have set out , it be concern that despite the MHRA ' s obvious importance , it clearly face a number of challenge that need to be address . the Cumberlege review highlight a conflict of interest , because the MHRA rely on fee income from pharmaceutical company ; as the hon . member for Stroud ( Dr Opher ) say , this be a case of the agency mark its own homework . it be not a great way to set up its funding . the hon . member for Dewsbury and Batley ( Iqbal Mohamed ) make a really important point about Brexit , which be the elephant in the room . as with so many part of our economy , Brexit cause major disruption to the pharmaceutical industry . among other thing , the loss of the prestigious European Medicines Agency from London to Amsterdam damage trust in the UK ' s pharmaceutical investment space . will the hon . Lady give way ? in the interest of time , I will not . Brexit cause significant confusion for company look to sell product from Great Britain to Northern Ireland . it have also slow down the time in which novel medicine and treatment can be approve for use , as pharmaceutical company have understandably prioritise obtain a single approval , allow access to 27 market via the EMA . meanwhile , strict affordability model impose by the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence mean that company face a further hurdle before their product can reach patient . again , that diminish the attractiveness of the UK market post Brexit . to help address this issue , the MHRA introduce the international recognition procedure a year ago to streamline the authorisation process by incorporate assessment from trust regulatory partner worldwide , include the EMA . however , that rely on those partner have already approve the product , so UK patient will inevitably still have access to medicine later than people in other country , include EU member state . when I meet representative of Roche Diagnostics , base in Burgess Hill in my constituency , they tell I about the industry ' s serious concern that the additional GB - specific conformity check require could be prohibitively expensive and lead to significant delay . as thing stand , the forecast be look gloomy . my liberal Democrat colleague and I be commit to address these issue head - on , and to help the MHRA become world lead . first , we be push to expand the MHRA ' s capacity by halve the time for treatment to reach patient suffer from illness such as cancer . secondly , we encourage the Government to fully implement the recommendation of the Cumberlege review , include on compensation , corrective surgery and psychological support for those who be fail and who suffer from faulty device and drug . thirdly — this be vital — the Government should actively seek a comprehensive mutual recognition agreement with the EMA to promote fast access to new and novel medicine and medical device . that would reduce red tape , cost and friction , provide hope for those who need access to these lifesaving and life - enhance medicine and device . I call the shadow Minister . I congratulate my right hon . friend the Member for Tatton ( Esther McVey ) on secure this debate , and on give member from across the House the opportunity to raise issue such as Primodos , breast implant , mesh , ssri , vaccine and MMR . as a clinician , I have see patient who have be affect by all these issue , and I know the heartfelt difficulty that they have face — not only in what have happen to they , but in try to resolve the problem . it be a testament to she that she have give the House the chance to debate these issue , and I be not sure that the public have ever pay so much attention to a regulator , even in the financial crisis . the MHRA have suddenly become something that people know . I often use to explain to patient that a regulator should be like a good referee : we should not see they , but they should be there to hold people to account and know the rule . however , modern refereeing be about more than that . a referee have already meet the player beforehand , and speak to the public about how thing work . they help to shape the way in which the rule should be interpret , allow we to improve the game . the hon . member for Great Yarmouth ( Rupert Lowe ) ask who regulate the regulator , and the answer be that this House be accountable . that accountability be key . what be the function of the MHRA ? they be : to ensure that medicine , medical device and blood component for transfusion meet applicable standard of safety , quality and efficacy ; to secure safe supply chain for medicine , medical device and blood component ; to promote international standardisation and harmonisation to ensure the effectiveness and safety of biological medicine ; to educate the public and healthcare professional about the risk and benefit of medicine , medical device and blood component , lead to safe and more effective use ; and to enable the development of innovation and research that benefit public health . I welcome the MHRA ' s new chair , Professor Anthony Harnden , who be appoint at the start of the year . I hope he be listen to this debate , as it will be important for he in set his priority . I pay tribute again to my right hon . friend the Member for Tatton because , whether or not the MHRA know this debate be happen , I notice during my research that all the guidance be update on the MHRA ' s website only yesterday . that be testament to the power of this place , even if inadvertently . the last Government do a lot in this space , particularly focus on patient safety and access . they introduce new regulation on medical device , with the classic example being diabete monitor , but they also set out to attract innovation . their reform have help to make the UK an attractive market for medical technology . I be pleased that both side of the House agree that this be a great place for the UK to find growth . these development be base on a consultation - lead approach , follow the change we have have since 2021 , when there be a consultation on the future regulation of medical device . this lead to a proportionate and phased approach that minimise supply disruption and support system readiness . under the last government , a road map for implementation be set out on 9 January 2024 . again , I be pleased to see that the current Government update the road map in December . this have the regulatory aim of adapt new technology , strengthen patient safety and provide clarity for manufacturer that be try to bring product to market . all these significant change try to balance medical technology advance , market capture , patient access , affordability and clinical outcome . however , as we have hear in this debate , this be all well and good , but " perception versus reality " come to mind . we arguably have one of the good regulatory regime in the world and , post Brexit , there be a real opportunity to lead the way . Counter to what the Lib Dem spokesperson , the hon . member for Mid Sussex ( Alison Bennett ) , say , it be because of Brexit that we be able to regulate around our vaccine . as have be say today , there be still serious concern about the system , surveillance and resource , give the medical tech boom . this be a wide debate , so I will focus my remark on three area : the current medical market , the emerge medical market , and communication with the public , perception and belief . when it come to the system for current medication , we need only consider what we hear early about SSRIs , and particularly their impact on sexual dysfunction — I happen to have that casework on my desk at the moment . do the Government believe that the yellow card system work , or will they consider a review ? when it come to emerge market , we have to remember that the MHRA have a statutory role not only in regulate but in the advertising and promotion of medicine in the UK . we have see thousand of online advert for weight - loss injection , such as Ozempic . the Times find approximately 6 , 500 advert that mention GLP - 1 on Meta ' s ad library between January 2022 and the end of June 2024 . and Sky have report that , accord to Simple Online Pharmacy , which have access to wholesale figure , 500 , 000 people in the UK be currently use thing like Wegovy . I would be grateful if the Government could set out what support they be offer the MHRA to ensure that it can fulfil its role and function properly , give that it have to manage promotion , safety and supply in all these area . be there any plan to review whether the MHRA be able to meet these condition in a change medical world ? finally , and most importantly , if I be to be critical of the MHRA , I would say that the key thing miss on the list of objective , as set out by the new chair , be communication . let I finish where I start : a regulator have never be more in the public eye . as a clinician , I know how difficult it be to wade through complex medical datum that be both conflicting and opaque . as my right hon . friend the Member for Tatton point out , freedom of information request and transparency be key to our understanding of this area . will the Government look to review how the MHRA interact with the public , how it communicate with grassroots professional , and what it can do to explain the hugely important work that it do ? to conclude , as my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) and the hon . member for Dewsbury and Batley ( Iqbal Mohamed ) point out , this be all about trust . I think it be Reagan who say , " Trust , but verify " . that seem particularly apt for this debate — for that be the role of a regulator , but it be also the role of the Government and the public . we must build a regulatory system that all can trust , and do so inherently , but that be also easily verifiable at any point . if we can achieve that , we can build a trust ecosystem that be good for innovation , good for the economy , and , most importantly , good for the people . I call the Minister . I congratulate the right hon . member for Tatton ( Esther McVey ) on secure this debate and thank she and all those who have speak for their contribution . we have hear some powerful story of failure as well as some useful experience . I have to thank my hon . friend the Member for Stroud ( Dr Opher ) , the hon . member for Dewsbury and Batley ( Iqbal Mohamed ) and the shadow Minister for share their expertise . I have hear many of these story before in my 10 year in this place . sadly , I have also have a constituent who share her experience with I , for which I be grateful . frankly , those experience shock I and my staff . I congratulate my hon . friend the Members for Camborne and Redruth ( Perran Moon ) , for Washington and Gateshead South ( Mrs Hodgson ) , for Poole ( Neil Duncan - Jordan ) , for Bolton South and Walkden ( Yasmin Qureshi ) and many other who have bring their experience to this place , shine a light on the issue . it be right for we to debate this matter . six month into the job and I be still learn , Madam Deputy Speaker , so I be grateful for be able to take part in this debate . I can assure my hon . friend the Member for Blackley and Middleton South ( Graham Stringer ) that I can not answer everything , and I be glad that he recognise that . the right hon . member for Tatton have focus my mind , for which I be very grateful . if I do not do justice to the point that have be raise , I will write to member about specific thing . I be meet representative from the MHRA and will be very clear about our expectation . it be absolutely the role of Parliament to be the ultimate monitor of its work . the MHRA play a vital role in fulfil the Government ' s health mission : balance its responsibility to maintain product safety and championing innovation . I will , if I may , be clear about the role of an enabler . it be about enable innovative product to reach patient without compromise patient safety and without unnecessary delay . it be thank to vaccine and medicine such as antibiotic and modern surgical procedure that we be live long , healthy , and more active life . no medical product be completely free of risk ; the main objective of the safety monitoring process be to identify any new risk that may emerge . when that happen , the MHRA must take its responsibility seriously , rigorously and transparently when balance population risk and benefit of each medical product , take prompt and decisive action whenever that be need . on support safety , the MHRA recognise the need constantly to seek to improve its safety monitoring system to deliver well result for people . recent improvement include implement the new Safety Connect it system , follow recommendation from the Cumberlege Review . this it system will improve the efficiency of reporting and processing of yellow card report , much of which we have hear about today , support the prompt identification and assessment of new safety concern . in addition , the MHRA make use of real - world datum via the clinical practice research datalink , which collect anonymised patient datum from a network of GP practice , across the UK , encompass datum from 60 million patient , include 18 million currently register patient . the MHRA have recently launch a pilot , in partnership with Genomics England , to create a rich source of genetic information to investigate the role of genetic pre - disposition in the development of serious adverse drug reaction . the aim be to establish a yellow card biobank to reduce the number of harmful side effect cause by medicine — a step towards personalised prescribing . the Cumberlege review also highlight the need to improve the regulation of implantable medical device . in November last year , the Government introduce new regulation to strengthen the requirement for manufacturer to proactively monitor and report on medical device once they be on the market , which be note by my hon . friend the Member for Washington and Gateshead South . we plan to lay further reform before Parliament this year , include unique device identifier and implant card to improve the traceability of implant device , as well as increase the classification of device to ensure that they receive the high scrutiny throughout their lifetime . finally , the MHRA have make some progress in response to the wide set of recommendation set out in Baroness Cumberlege ' s report . it listen carefully to the people who give evidence and to the review ' s finding , and be commit to bring about those change . it be our job to ensure that that happen . the yellow card scheme provide the backbone of our safety monitoring system . the scheme rely on voluntarily report from patient , parent , caregiver and healthcare professional . the MHRA also collect report of suspect safety concern involve defective , falsified or fake healthcare product . last year , it assess more than 118 , 000 report , and identify 134 safety signal , but I take onboard the comment make today . when safety signal lead to confirm risk , the MHRA can introduce specific risk minimisation measure , such as introduce particular warning about the risk of side effect in the product information , restrict the use of the medicine or medical device , or suspend or remove the medicine or device from the market . the MHRA will continue to proactively encourage the reporting of adverse effect through improvement such as those within the new Safety Connect system , and will ensure that there be well connection between clinical system , work with the wide healthcare system . the MHRA recognise that there have be delay in some of the regulatory service that it provide , include licence application for innovative and generic medicine , variation to licence , and inspection of manufacturing and laboratory premise . since September 2024 , all new application for marketing authorisation of establish medicine be be assess within expect timescale . that element be therefore improve , but we will keep a close eye on it . I reiterate my thank to the right hon . member for Tatton . this have be an informative and , bizarrely , a wide - range but focused debate . trust be really important . patient have to be at the heart of our work , and that of the MHRA . patient safety be the foremost priority . the MHRA be continue to work on improve engagement and involve patient in decision make throughout the life cycle of the product that it regulate . it will continue to work to facilitate patient access to new medicine and medical device , in collaboration with health system partner across the UK . the regulator maintain its focus on continuous improvement , and have implement new way of work to maximise productivity in way that put patient and public health outcome first . I take the point make by the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Hinckley and Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) , that communication around that be key . the MHRA have turn around performance on clinical trial and be on track to deliver all regulatory service within statutory timeline by the end of March 2025 . later this year , as part of its programme of reform , we will introduce new point of care manufacturing legislation that will make the MHRA the first regulator in the world to introduce a tailor framework for innovative manufacturing method , take the manufacture and supply of medicine to patient . it be truly an exciting development , and I pay tribute to those involve . the process for recruit the new chief executive be well under way . we welcome Professor Anthony Harnden . his strategic focus be on help the organisation to protect patient safety through robust surveillance system , embrace risk - proportionate regulation and foster an inclusive workplace where people flourish . without put he on the spot , we should think about organise a parliamentary event of some sort to bring people together to discuss matter with the MHRA and build that trust . I be pleased to support its work . it be internationally recognise as a regulator . we want to do well . the Government will ensure that the MHRA be well . I thank all member who have stay late to speak today , many of they recount the deeply move and harrowing experience of their constituent . all contribution reinforce the failing of the MHRA . in fact , listen to member , the verdict on the MHRA be guilty as charge , confirm that it be in need of substantial reform . I feel sure that the Minister will ensure that that reform start here and now . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House note that the Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency ( MHRA ) continue to need substantial reform , as recognise by the Independent Medicines and Medical Devices Safety Review ( IMMDS ) , with patient safety concern persist and exacerbating since the review ' s publication in 2020 ; believe that the MHRA ' s 2017 expert working group report on Primodos be deeply flawed , with IMMDS later conclude the drug have cause avoidable harm ; further note that the yellow card system for report suspect adverse drug reaction be fail , with no process for follow up on serious or fatal reaction and conflict of interest , with 75 % of the MHRA ' s funding be derive from industry fee , a concern raise in the Fourth Report of Session 2004 - 05 of the Health Committee , the Influence of the Pharmaceutical Industry , HC 42 - I , publish on 5 April 2005 ; also note the MHRA ' s delay response to report of myocarditis , pericarditis and vaccine - induce thrombotic thrombocytopaenia follow covid - 19 vaccination , despite action from regulator in other country ; and call on the Government to fully implement the recommendation in the IMMDS review and to acknowledge the harm do to patient and the financial burden on the healthcare system as a result of the MHRA ' s widespread regulatory failure . UK Air Defence Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Mark Tami . ) I be grateful for this opportunity and declare my interest as a reservist , the father of two servicewoman and the brother of a serve admiral . among the many issue that should be keep Ministers awake at night be two tech - base conundrum that particularly worry I . one be future access to critical mineral and their product , which I have speak about in the past . the other related issue be the patchy nature of the protection of these island against missile and drone . that be what I want to raise this evening . everything cost , and it be easy when one be not in government to wish the end without the mean . at the moment , defence be spread too thinly and what I be suggest would spread it even more thinly . whether the UK should be globally deployable or focus on the defence of the homeland and its Euro - Atlantic neighbourhood be moot . the likelihood be that we will soldier on , make do and mend — we always have . but the scene be set for the big retrenchment since Suez . I wish it be otherwise , but it fall to this Government to make the call . their attempt unforced surrender of the Chagos island be perhaps an indication of where their thinking lie . in 1963 , the 35th US President tell his National Security Council that european NATO member be not pay their fair share . John F . Kennedy say , " we have be very generous to Europe and it be now time for we to look out for ourselves " . on Monday , the 45th and 47th President will likely be say the same thing . clearly , american frustration with Europe enjoy the insurance policy without pay the premium be nothing new . what be new be the american willingness to strong - arm Europe into change its way . forget 2 % or 2 . 5 % — trump say he want 5 % of GDP spend on defence by all NATO member , and here be the kicker : he want a 20 % tariff on all good import to the US . combine the two and it be not a stretch to imagine he slap tariff on european good unless Europeans step up to the plate . ultimately , the single most important reason trump can do what we fear he be about to do be that America be no long principally compete with Europe ' s proximate threat — Russia . a vast but thinly populated nation of 144 million , a bust economy and a military whose weakness have be generously display for all to see since February 2022 be not perceive by Washington as a main threat . an America emerge from the 9 / 11 Bush counter - terrorism era be back to face off with great power once again , but the great power be not Russia ; it be China . as the US pivot , european state of all size must step up to defend their homeland and safeguard the north Atlantic . there be no free pass . Israel be a small state , but its military capability be unmatched in the middle east . its layered missile defence system — the famous Iron Dome , David ' s Sling and Arrow — and its formidable fleet of aircraft demonstrate how small state , with a little help from their friend , can punch way above their weight . several of those small state will provide the first line of defence against Putin ' s Russia . the bulk of the cruise , ballistic and hypersonic missile that Putin would fire at Britain as a proxy for the US will be intercept by exist defence system and fighter aircraft station in the baltic state , the Czech Republic , Slovakia or Poland . while our geography , as so often in our history , give strategic depth and protection from long - range attack , we can have less confidence in deal with proximate threat from sea and subsea platform and with threat to deploy and overseas asset , such as Cyprus , that fall well within the scope of short - range missile and drone from Russia , Iran and their proxy . in any event , some missile direct at the homeland would get through in the event of a full - on attack right now by the Russian Federation . that have be our blind spot . the public would expect that missile evade the first line of integrate missile defence would be destroy close to their target . the Type 45 - mount Sea Viper and the ground - base Sky Sabre be exquisite example of air and missile defence system , but there be simply not enough of they — not enough missile ready to go and not enough industrial capacity to enable resilience in anything more than the very short term . Russia ' s war on Ukraine have helpfully make we alive to our vulnerability . Russia , as we have see in Ukraine and throughout its history , be capable of take long - term pain in a way that it seem unlikely we would . as thing stand , the capital be particularly vulnerable to russian missile attack , unless we park all our Type 45 — those that be operational — on the Thames . happily , unlike Israel and Ukraine , we be surround by friend . it make sense to be a full part of , and a contributor to , NATO integrate air and missile defence , but european IAMD , and its suppression and destruction of enemy air defence system , be currently completely reliant on the US . in any event , the suspicion be that a full - on attack by Russia right now would find too many hole in the patchy architecture that have evolve to protect against missile . Germany have recognise that threat ; it have own the consequence of do nothing . it have establish the European Sky Shield initiative , and have begin procure trust system such as Patriot and Arrow 3 . the UK have be consider join ESSI . where be we with that ? what about off - the - shelf system such as Arrow 3 ? I thank my right hon . and gallant Friend for that point . it be interesting that the Arrow 3 project he mention be a joint project between Boeing in America and the israeli defence machinery . be there something in the innovation offer by Patria , a finnish company , which be offer to help we build armoured vehicle here in Britain but base on its design ? do we need less of a reliance on domestic system and to consider , as he say , off - the - shelf system from elsewhere ? there be a great deal in what my hon . Friend say . historically , buy off the shelf have prove to be somewhat more cost - effective than design exquisite system of our own . I hope very much that , as we go far into this process , we can partner with other to ensure that what we buy be both integrated and cost - effective . I would be interested to hear the Minister ' s thought on ESSI . Ukraine have show the limitation of the " just in time , not just in case " policy that have drive our failure to stockpile the materiel of war in recent decade . in the 1930 , the shadow factory initiative fit commercial premise that typically produce car for reconfiguration as armament factory , in case the need should arise , which it do . car worker would switch to become the basis of the skilled workforce necessary to create materiel for prosecute the war effort . that then happen , to the point that in 1940 , this country be outstrip Germany in the production of fighter aircraft . with every respect due to the few , the Battle of Britain be win in Britain ' s factory and on its production line as much as in the sky . victory hinge just as much on logistic now , except the timeline be far short . the defence ecosystem in the US 2022 national defence strategy have more than a whiff of the 1930 in advance an intertwine commercial - military co - operative . in a good light , we can see shadow factory in the thematic approach to missile defence take by the Defence Science and Technology Laboratory missile defence centre . crucially , it be industry partner - base , with a heavy focus on grow suitably qualified and experienced people , of whom we be desperately short . the MDC be now 20 year old . what assessment have the Minister make of it , and what change do he propose to its structure and remit to help plug hole in our missile defence architecture ? in the light of prevail circumstance , will he consider upgrade the mdc so that it have the salience and clout approach that of the pre - war directorate of aeronautical production ? then , it be Spitfires and Hurricanes ; today it be missile defence , sdead — suppression and destruction of enemy air defence — and drone . then , it be preparation for the total war to come ; now — God willing — it be deterrence . there be those who say that the solution to our vulnerability to missile attack from the east be simple : it be Israel ' s Iron Dome — the close - in element of the layered missile defence system use successfully to thwart Iran in April . however , Israel be a small country with a small population concentrate in a small number of city with limited critical national infrastructure . it be surround by hostile . happily , none of that apply here . our missile defence must be fully integrate with NATO partner . NATO need european leadership as the US pivot , and we must not encourage those whose primary interest in defence lie in extend the remit of the institution of the European Union , rather than the defence and security of Europeans . we do not need the distraction of a separate , compete EU defence architecture ; NATO be our strength and our stay , and we must use our status as the continent ' s lead military power to ensure it remain so . in particular , we must articulate clearly the case for layered missile defence and SDEAD within a NATO construct , as the US pivot towards the Indo - Pacific . the UK and Europe need NATO integrate air and missile defence that incorporate close - in system to guarantee major centre of population , defence asset and critical national infrastructure . crucially , member state must not give an aggressor capable of wage an attritional war ground for believe that the west will exhaust its ordnance in the first few hour or day . where be we with the versatile and scalable very short to medium - range modular ground - base air defence system envisage by NATO Defence Ministers at their meeting in October 2020 ? what application might that system have to provide the last arrow in our quiver — one that will destroy missile that have evade intermediate layer and be about to land on critical site in the UK ? for a country with no money , direct energy weapon offer a potential solution for deal with drone and missile , albeit in line of sight and in good weather . be dstl ' s DragonFire weapon still on course for service with the Royal Navy in 2027 , and what export opportunity be minister explore ? do they expect that type 26s , type 31 , and any type 32 will carry DragonFire or successor direct energy weapon ? will they be fit as standard , or as expensive retrofit ? do we really need a sixth - generation manned — or even hybrid — fast jet to replace Typhoon ? would it not be well to rely on the F - 35 airframe with mid - life upgrade in a future that be surely progressively unmanned ? the lineal , if less romantic , descendant of the few will be tech geek , gamer , coder and those who provide a human interface with artificial intelligence . what be we do to grow they , and will the Minister visit the # TechTrowbridge initiative that I start in Wiltshire ' s county town , which be once a centre for spitfire manufacture ? he would be warmly welcome on his way to his constituency . the reason that a grisly artillery war have play out in Ukraine be because nobody have be able to command the airspace . happily and to our surprise , Russia have be unable to suppress or destroy Ukraine ' s air defence . in the future , unmanned combat aerial vehicle configure to shoot the archer , not the arrow , will do that . I would be very surprised if Lord Robertson be not cast a critical eye over the global combat air programme , and compare and contrast its cost and effectiveness with those of unmanned combat aerial vehicle . I appreciate the deep cultural difficulty of envisage an unmanned future battlespace . it be deeply unsettling for those of we steep in the tradition of the armed force , but while there will always be a need for sufficient booted and spur combat troop ready to close with and kill the enemy and hold the ground — as the Member of Parliament for a garrison town , I be not for one moment suggest a further reduction in headcount — this country will never again be able to expose itself to attritional warfare of the sort we be see be play out in Ukraine . politically and societally , that would be impossible and unconscionable . that mean integrate missile defence , SDEAD , drone , and command of the electromagnetic spectrum . once again at a dreadnought crossroad , Britain must configure the force at its disposal for the long term in all domain and take a lead as what be still the principal military power in its Euro - atlantic voisinage . early pointer suggest that this government be take the right fork in the road would include difficult and unpopular decision such as stand firm on the deep space advance radar capability envisage for Cawdor barrack on the St David ' s peninsula , which be bottle by previous government . as we chop to an unmanned future , those pointer would — for example , and very painfully — include consignment of the RAF Red Arrows aero - acrobatic team to the historic flight . this Government have four year leave to run — the time the directorate of aeronautical production have to fit out this country with what it need to prevail . recent event have reveal the fundamental truth that we be vulnerable now , as we be then , and the shift geopolitical plate will likely make we more so . the public will never forgive an Administration of whatever colour who muddle through , leave they open to the predation of Putin ' s advance missile programme . I thank the right hon . member for South West Wiltshire ( Dr Murrison ) for call this debate and for the seriousness with which he have approach it . I share his general analysis of the context that we live in more difficult , unsettled and challenging time . that be the reason why , on come into office , the Prime Minister commission Lord Robertson to begin the strategic defence review to look at our capability and to set those against the threat we be face as a country . I will return to some of those area , and indeed to the question the right hon . Gentleman ask . there be a real challenge when it come to integrate air missile defence , the threat from drone and the threat from one - way effector and long - range strike , as we have see every single day in Ukraine , with the brave people of Ukraine be on the receive end of onslaught from Putin ' s illegal invasion . those be the lesson we be seek to learn in the strategic defence review to make sure not only that we can support our friend in Ukraine with the equipment they need , but that we can adapt our own way of war fight and defend to deter aggression if at all possible , and to defeat it if necessary . the right hon . Gentleman have raise a number of issue , and I will come on to those in my remark if I can , but I be sure he will keep I honest if I have miss any by the time I reach the end of my response to he . his analysis of the context of the political challenge in this debate be certainly true . when he be a Defence Minister and I be on the Opposition Benches , the current Defence Secretary and I make that argument . have hear from the Government Dispatch Box that defence have be hollow out and underfunde , we argue that we need a different approach . I do not like the approach the right hon . Gentleman mention of have to " make do and mend — we always have " . I recognise it , but I do not think we should accept it , especially in more difficult time . precisely because of that , the SDR need to be bold , and that be in effect the remit give to Lord Robertson , Fiona Hill and Richard Barrons by the Prime Minister and the Defence Secretary . the right hon . Gentleman be right that it fall to this Government to make those decision , and we have already make a number of decision about retire old platform . that be sometimes difficult , and he raise the interesting challenge of how we renew technology without offend or upset the established norm . as an example , Watchkeeper , a 14 - year - old drone system use by the British Army , have be retire because it can not keep pace with the modern challenge of electronic warfare jamming and other thing we would be ask it to do if it be to be deploy on a frontline . that be certainly something we feel incredibly strongly about . I have just return from the E5 Defence Ministers meeting that take place in Warsaw in Poland , and it be clear to I that our NATO ally be all take integrate air and missile defence seriously . if we look at the experience of the nation on NATO ' s eastern flank — particularly Poland and the baltic state , which the right hon . Gentleman mention — we be see very real concern about protection of their airspace . protection be be build up through what they be seek to procure and the support they be ask for from ally in provide a protective bubble over their country . Britain ' s island geography may have deter aggressor throughout much of our history , but it be no shield against sophisticated weapon and modern air warfare , and for that reason the SDR have be commission . I thank my right hon . and gallant Friend the Member for South West Wiltshire ( Dr Murrison ) for bring this important debate to the Chamber . from the discussion the Minister have at the E5 conference , do he think our ally be confident that we be play our part in air defence ? I thank my fellow Devon MP for that question . he will be able to read the joint statement by the UK , Italy , France , Germany and Poland when it be publish on the Ministry of Defence website on the conference ' s conclusion . I make the point clearly in the press conference afterwards that the UK be call on all NATO partner to increase their defence spending . we have a plan to increase our defence spending from 2 . 3 % to 2 . 5 % . where any increase defence spending go matter , because it need not only to deter aggression , but to defeat it and — perhaps most importantly and relevant to this debate — to be interoperable with our ally . we need to ensure that any investment in defence have an increase in our deployability and our lethality as we fight together . it be the assumption of this Government , with a declare NATO - first policy , that we will be support our NATO ally in any defensive measure . that be the reason we have the British Army in Estonia with Operation Cabrit . it be the reason we have NATO air police in a variety of state along NATO ' s eastern flank . integrated air and missile defence be an area that all NATO member need to develop . there be not one answer that everyone have reach for yet . it be a difficult , wicked problem that require investment and a change in strategy . that be part of the reason why that be be address by the SDR . that be a long answer to the hon . Gentleman ' s question , but I hope it provide he with the clarity he need . the Minister represent a city and a football club that be close to my heart . I also thank the right hon . member for South West Wiltshire ( Dr Murrison ) for bring forward this important debate . I be hearten to hear that the Minister view the interoperability of our workforce and our asset alongside our NATO ally . do the Government view the defence of UK airspace not singularly but , as I do , as the western front of european air defence ? I would certainly be happy afterwards to take up any discussion about Plymouth Argyle and a post Wayne Rooney world . it be certainly true that the United Kingdom ' s commitment to NATO be not just in secure a northern and western flank and deal with the north Atlantic and the high north ; we also have responsibility to our NATO ally on the eastern and southern flank . part of the challenge we have with integrated air and missile defence and the threat that the UK and our ally face be that the definition of what be the close and the deep have fundamentally change , because of the experience of the Ukraine war . I recognise that there be member in this House and this debate who serve in our armed force , and they will be familiar with the broad definition of close and deep . it be certainly true that what we previously regard as close and deep have fundamentally change . the distance have increase enormously . we be see that in Ukraine , and that mean we have to re - imagine and re - define the strategy and capability we need to be able to operate in those environment . have the ability to project power and fire at distance be one reason that we have support Ukraine with so many weapon system . it be also the reason why the SDR be look in particular at this area and how any force and capability can meet the threat we be face . in that respect , I hope that the hon . member for Tewkesbury ( Cameron Thomas ) understand that the SDR will address many of the answer to his broad question . our responsibility be more than just secure the UK homeland ; they be about support our ally , and indeed it be our ally ' role to support not only their own country , but their NATO partner , include the UK . the threat pose to our security continue to proliferate and converge . with technology rapidly develop , protect Britain and our ally from attack become ever more complex and challenging . let I be absolutely clear : adversary must be in no doubt that the UK possess formidable capability contribute to our integrate air and missile defence , along with the will and the intent to protect the UK and our ally . we have Typhoon aircraft on alert 24 hour a day , 365 day a year . I be sure that the right hon . member for South West Wiltshire have see the quick reaction aircraft , as I have , operate out of RAF Lossiemouth and see the incredible speed , dedication and professionalism of our team there respond to threat approach the United Kingdom . our radar at Fylingdales provide continuous early warning against ballistic missile , and the Royal Navy prove the effectiveness of the Type 45 destroyer against different air threat in the recent operation in the Red sea in particular . that include shoot down drone similar to those use by Russia against Ukraine . in relation to the specific of our capability , I have have the privilege of visit UK force station forward in Poland use the Sky Sabre system , support the NATO logistic hub that support so much of what we provide to Ukraine . Operation Stifftail have now conclude , and that mission have be a success . I thank all those member of the Royal Artillery in particular who support that mission . the Sky Sabre system that be in Poland have be return to the UK and be be reconstitute . the Sky Sabre system that we have in the Falklands provide continuous air defence to the island , protect the sovereignty of the Falkland island . have see that system up close and personal on my recent visit to the Falklands , I thank those member of our armed force protect the sky above the Falklands . we will need to ensure that integrate air missile defence be more than just a bubble over Poland and protection of the Falklands . I think that be at the heart of what the right hon . Gentleman be seek to raise in the debate . it be also one of the challenge that the strategic defence review seek to answer . I will not steal Lord Robertson ' s sandwich in term of what I expect to see in the strategic defence review , but certainly enhance our capability to meet threat be one of the core challenge of the SDR , and I would expect he and his review team to be make recommendation about how that should be do in the SDR when it be publish in the spring . the right hon . Gentleman will also know that the time on the path to get to 2 . 5 % of gdp be spend on defence will also be publish in the spring . hopefully , that will enable we to look at those two part together to ensure that we be , in his word , meet the challenge of step up . I agree that there be no free pass , and as a nation we have rely on our strategic depth for a great many year , but we can not rely on that alone today . that be why our capability need to match that challenge . our NATO - first approach mean ensure that we deliver not only on the article 3 responsibility in the NATO treaty to protect our own homeland , but on article 5 and be able to support our NATO ally . that be why we will continue to support our deployment around the NATO area of operation . as a country , we be lead the way with initiative such as DIAMOND — deliver integrate air and missile operational networked defence — which will improve air defence integration across Europe and strengthen NATO ' s air and missile protection . the UK have also launch the NATO multinational procurement initiative on missile capability , which be a catalyst to mobilise the Euro - atlantic defence industry in support of Ukraine and address the burgeon security threat to NATO member as well . we be also forge deep relation with individual european partner . hon . member may have see the landmark Trinity House agreement sign between the United Kingdom and Germany , which will see we turbocharge a series of major project across air , land and sea , work in partnership to strengthen air defence and well protect european airspace . we be also work more closely with France , with our most recently sign a letter of intent for the european long - range strike approach — the ELSA initiative — at France ' s request . such initiative demonstrate our determination to support Ukraine , counter the threat pose by Putin and reconnect Britain internationally . I realise that I have not get to every one of the right hon . Gentleman ' s point , but if he will forgive I , I will write to he and place a letter in the House so that all member can be certain of these matter . let I be absolutely clear that I look forward to see the strategic defence review publish and have it as not only Labour ' s defence policy , but support on a cross - party basis as Britain ' s defence policy , to secure our nation , our value and our ally in more uncertain time . question put and agree to . House adjourn .