I thank the hon . member for Wimbledon ( Mr Kohler ) for secure today ' s debate . I be incredibly proud of many thing in Beckenham and Penge , but particularly St Christopher ' s hospice . it be found in 1967 by Dame Cicely Saunders , the founder of the global hospice movement . the movement come about because Dame Cicely , a nurse who be research pain control , believe that more could be do to help people at the end of their life . that include deal with physical symptom and tackle the stigma around painkiller , but also the idea that people should be able to achieve emotional closure through individualised care and support . the assisted die debate have be mention today by member from across the House . I have over 2 , 000 constituent contact I about that debate , and there be roughly a 50 : 50 split between those who support and oppose the Bill , but every single one of they be unite by compassion , and they relay their experience of see people at the end of their life . I pay tribute this evening to a woman I be incredibly fortunate to work for in this place , Dame Tessa Jowell . Tessa be a very good friend , a mentor and an amazing boss . six year ago next week , she make her final speech in Parliament . Tessa be diagnose with a terminal brain tumour . I be with she from her diagnosis through to write the press release on the night she die . she finish her speech in the other place by say : " in the end , what give a life meaning be not only how it be live , but how it draw to a close . " — [ Official Report , House of Lords , 25 January 2018 ; Vol . 788 , c . 1170 . ] I sincerely believe that . St Christopher ' s hospice give meaning to life as it draw to a close . it do so by take a holistic approach ; it care for a patient ' s physical , spiritual and psychological wellbeing . I have see at first hand the intimate bond and relationship establish between staff , volunteer , patient and family . the hospice be one of the large provider of palliative care education in the world . for all those reason , we in Beckenham and Penge all support St Christopher ' s hospice , which be a huge part of our community . I be fundraise for the hospice long before I become an MP , and I continue to do so . People help in lot of different way , and I want to give a special mention to Penge Fest , which be south - east London ' s answer to Oktoberfest . local business such as Brewery , the Three Hounds and Designer Drapes , organisation include friend of Cator Park and Penge business improvement district , and many more come together with local resident for a day of fun and fundraising that include an oompah band . the event bring Penge high street to a standstill last summer . we will continue to fundraise for St Christopher ' s hospice , but we should not have to do so to pay for the basic . support our hospice benefit everyone , from the NHS to patient , and that be why I welcome the Government ' s announcement , just before Christmas , of an extra £ 100 million in hospice funding through the extension of child ' s hospice grant . that will ease the strain on hospice and benefit patient , as well as the wide health and care system . however , hospice still face pressure , include increase demand for service , the rise cost of provision and discrepancy in funding across the country , which many member have mention this evening . that be why , as the Minister recognise , hospice must be a key part of the Government ' s plan to shift care into the community , include through the provision of at - home care service . that can ease the acute pressure on the NHS . I invite the Minister to visit St Christopher ' s to see its fantastic work for himself , and to discuss the role of hospice in the Government ' s commitment to ensure that every person have access to high - quality end of life care . I thank the hon . member for Wimbledon again for secure today ' s debate , and the Government for the vital work that they be undertake on this important issue . hospice in Devon be already struggle before the Government ' s Budget last autumn , which introduce a hike in employer ' national insurance . to talk first about the national picture , we have hear that a third of funding for hospice tend to come from the state , through the NHS . however , in Devon , it be less than a fifth . for Hospicare , a charity base in Exeter , the figure be 18 % , while for Seton Hospice at Home and Sidmouth Hospice at Home , the figure be 0 % ; they do not receive any funding at all from NHS Devon . last year , I get together with Ben Bradshaw and Simon Jupp , the former mps for Exeter and for East Devon . we put aside our political difference — Simon Jupp and I be contest the seat of Honiton and Sidmouth at the time — write to the chair of NHS Devon , the brilliant Sarah Wollaston , and secure an extra £ 500 , 000 for hospice care in Devon . none the less , the charity Hospicare still have a deficit of £ 2 . 5 million per year . follow the national insurance announcement last autumn , the Guardian report in mid - November that whitehall be consider option to relieve the financial pressure on hospice . it suggest that civil servant be weigh up the possibility of offset the NI rise , fund hospice nursing staff directly , or set up a " direct funding pot " for hospice . follow the announcement on 19 December and the Christmas gift of capital funding for hospice , it seem that the Government choose the direct funding pot for hospice . the problem with the additional capital funding be that a lot of hospice do not have physical building . they do not have infrastructure . they provide nursing service and hospice at home , so they can not simply offset day - to - day spending with that capital spending . they be completely miss out , and that be the experience for Seaton hospice at home and sidmouth hospice at home service in my east Devon constituency . in conclusion , these charity step in where the NHS do not . provide care be central to the Government ' s vision of shift treatment from hospital to community , yet the current trajectory seem to be force patient back into overstretched , acute hospital .