the Government be out of idea and without direction , either unwilling or unable to make the big decision to give we a bright future . what a waste opportunity , especially when it come to action to tackle the nature and climate crisis . what well opportunity be there to empower community and business to break down barrier to tackle the big issue of our generation ? I be pleased that the Government announce recently that they will introduce a nature GCSE , but consider the abysmal nature of what be in the King ' s Speech on tackle the climate crisis , it seem to I that the Prime Minister should be the first person to take it . climate education should not stop with school ; local authority could organise citizen ' assembly , as we have propose many time . there be so many opportunity to educate people about the danger of our not get this right and fail to reach our 1 . 5 ° target by 2050 , but those on the Government Front Bench continue to ignore they . they continue , too , to ignore the opportunity that would arise from a green transition . a nature or climate GCSE could grow the career and skill we need to tackle the climate emergency and get to net zero , but this Government ' s attitude be that everyone except they must meet their commitment . rather than protect our child ' s future , the Government be protect the interest of the fossil fuel giant . how can they seriously claim to be leader on net zero action while introduce legislation to hold annual oil and gas licensing round ? that be particularly shocking when compare with their unforgivable failure to allocate a single new contract for difference for onshore wind farm in the recent auction round . I would like to hear how the new legislation will bring down energy bill for a single one of my constituent . research from Uplift confirm that most of the oil produce at Rosebank will be ship abroad and sell on the global market to the high bidder ; it will secure the future of the oil and gas giant , but not the UK ' s energy supply . not only do the new Offshore Petroleum Licensing Bill fly in the face of our climate commitment , but it will have wide - range and long - term negative impact on the sustainability of our ocean and marine life . as I say , we need education on this across the House and across the board in all our community . educate young child be a good start , but it seem to I that a lot more of the old generation need that education too . when will this Tory Government embrace the clean , green energy of the future and stop delay our path to net zero ? we need more grid capacity and more Government action to capitalise on green job and technology . new green job do not fall out of the sky ; they start with proper career option for young people that they can start now so that we can see the energy transformation we need . we hear from Tory Ministers that they hope to attract more investment in renewable , but their word do not match their action . we can not afford for our Government to miss any more of their own target . that , too , should be part of our education — that if we say we will do something , we should actually deliver . we must take people with we on the green transition , and education be the first step . there be so many untapped opportunity . UK solar power deployment be already significantly behind target . the smart export guarantee should incentivise household to invest in solar panel by allow they to sell the excess electricity they produce back to the grid at a well price and recover the cost of their investment much fast . again , educate householder in how they can invest in the net zero transition be an important part of the puzzle . if we do not communicate properly with our citizen about what they can do to tackle the climate crisis , where will we be ? under the current system , it take decade for householder to break even . householder be confused , and we need to ensure that there be trust source where they can obtain information about how to tackle the climate crisis and break down the barrier that we be discuss today . there must be that change to bring about the revolution in rooftop solar that carry so many benefit for people and the planet . the cheap energy be the energy that we do not use , and reduce energy waste will lower bill and cut carbon emission . we urgently need to upgrade our housing stock to guarantee warm and comfortable home for everyone , long into the future . one in four private renter live in fuel poverty , and 1 . 6 million child be live in privately rent cold , damp or mouldy home . landlord have contact I say that they can not afford to upgrade their property to energy - efficient standard . that , too , be just a bit of education , a bit of knowledge that we must share as a matter of urgency . I believe that local council be well place to be the trust source of that type of information , but the Government must see they as partner and people to engage with , and give they the opportunity and resource that they need in order to share the information that be so badly need in our community . some subsidy scheme be available to landlord , but they be not open to all landlord and they can be difficult to access . we Liberal Democrats propose that all landlord should be allow to offset their spending on insulation and energy - save improvement against their income tax . only through well - target incentive for landlord will we make the difference for tenant who be struggle to pay their bill . if the Government disagree with our proposal , I ask they to suggest an alternative . all we have see so far be that from 2025 landlord will no long need to meet the energy performance certificate c standard . there have be yet more delay . when will we see action to ensure that family do not live in poor - quality housing that be badly insulate , make their energy bill more expensive ? we need the landlord on board . we need a Government who be prepared to use both a carrot and a stick , and we need a Government who be prepared to put out the necessary information and enable it to be pool — and I would say , yet again , that council be well place to do that . E3 G have find that raise the energy standard to c rating for privately rent home would save bill payer about £ 570 a year . the Government should hold firm , and help landlord to meet these target and keep home warm this winter . since the last king ' s Speech , we have not reduce our dependence on oil and gas , we have not allow household to make more sustainable choice , we have not put out that important piece of education that people need , we have not organise the citizen ' assembly for the sharing of information that we require so urgently , and we have not protect household from rise energy bill . too many household face another difficult winter . the Government ' s failure to deliver be become their trademark , and judge by the King ' s speech that will not change any time soon , although I still hold out hope that it will . the Government should prove I wrong — or right .