these order be technical in nature and relate to the capacity of UK Export Finance — which be the operate name of the Export Credits Guarantee Department , the UK ' s export credit agency — to support current and prospective exporter . as hon . and right hon . member will know , UK Export Finance have a mandate to support UK exporter with finance and insurance , help they to compete internationally . UK Export Finance , or UKEF for short , be establish more than 100 year ago and be the world ' s old export credit agency . its support have prove crucial to british exporter throughout its existence . UKEF help exporter to win international contract , to fulfil export order , to create job and to get pay . last year it provide £ 8 . 8 billion in finance to support UK exporter , and support up to 41 , 000 job around the UK as a result . some 88 % of the business it support last year be small and medium - sized enterprise . UKEF provide its finance at no net cost to the taxpayer ; in fact , it generate a return for the Exchequer , with £ 705 million return to the Treasury over the last three year . the Export and Investment Guarantees Act 1991 , as amend in 2015 , confer power on the Secretary of State to provide finance that be conducive to export , and to provide insurance in connection with overseas investment . those power be exercise and perform through UKEF . subject to some limited exception , section 6 ( 1 ) of the Act impose a limit on the aggregate amount of financial commitment that can be make under those power — in other word , the total size of UKEF ' s financial portfolio . at present , the limit stand at £ 67 . 7 billion , express in special drawing right . special drawing right be an accounting unit for international transaction and be create by the International Monetary Fund ; their value be base on a grouping of five major currency , include pound sterling , the US dollar and the euro . the sum equate to approximately £ 70 billion at today ' s exchange rate . why be we seek an increase ? well , the current limit have be in place since 2015 , and UK Export Finance ' s portfolio size be now draw close to it . be UKEF to reach its limit , it would have to pause its vital financing activity , which , in turn , would cut off its support to prospective exporter . I should note that , in practice , the size of UKEF ' s portfolio be subject to a limit set by the Treasury . this limit , call the maximum commitment limit , must be low than the statutory limit set out in legislation . I be therefore propose these statutory instrument to increase the commitment limit in section 6 ( 1 ) , and to avoid the future risk of have to turn away application for ukef support . section 6 of the Act enable the Secretary of State , by order , to far increase the limit by up to £ 5 billion . the power to make such an order may be exercise on up to three occasion and have not be use before . I be therefore seek approval of these three order together , which would allow we to increase ukef ' s statutory commitment limit by £ 5 billion per order , for a total of £ 15 billion . inflation since the limit be last amend and the increase transaction size that the Department be support mean that the Department be now approach that legal limit . lay these si together be about future - proof ukef and give it sufficient legal capacity to provide certainty for its customer . again , it be a decision for Treasury Ministers to then confirm the actual commitment limit under which the Department operate . after they have come into force , the three instrument take together will increase the commitment limit to 82 . 7 billion special drawing right , which convert to around £ 84 billion pound at today ' s exchange rate . UK Export Finance be deliver an ambitious five - year business plan that align with this Government ' s mission , support growth and prosperity for UK exporter and their community across the country , and do so at no net cost to the taxpayer , but its ability to do so will be at risk without the additional legal headroom that these instrument provide . these change will therefore allow UK Export Finance to continue meet its mandate in support export and drive growth — something that I be sure those in all part of the House will join I in welcome . I commend these order to the House .