thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I be grateful for the opportunity to make my maiden speech today . I congratulate my hon . friend the Members for Ossett and Denby Dale ( Jade Botterill ) , for Congleton ( Mrs Russell ) , for Buckingham and Bletchley ( Callum Anderson ) and for Banbury ( Sean Woodcock ) on their excellent contribution today — my thank to they all . it be the honour of my life to have be elect as the Member of Parliament for Bangor Aberconwy , and I offer my heartfelt thank to everyone who support I on my journey to this place : to my partner and my two kid , who I will not name — because my entry into the world of politic have already cause they enough embarrassment as it be — to my brother Mike , my sister Pam , my niece and nephew , and all my friend back home ; and to my dad , who be watch from the Gallery today , something that would never have be possible be it not for the incredible staff of Ysbyty Gwynedd , who have save his life on more than one occasion . I want to thank my incredible campaign team , my agent Jim Hoey and Ken Stevens . I also pay tribute to the late Councillor Bill Chapman , who be very sorely miss . without his encouragement much early in my career , I would not be here today . Bangor Aberconwy encompass the former constituency of Aberconwy , as well as part of what be Arfon and Clywd West . I thank all three of my predecessor , and their staff , for all their work in the support of local resident . Robin Millar serve as the Member for Aberconwy from 2019 . I know that his work support hotelier during the pandemic be very much appreciated . David Jones serve as the Member of Parliament for Clywd West and serve in the role as Secretary of State for Wales during his time here . Hywel Williams serve as the Member of Parliament for Arfon and the previous Caernarfon constituency for over 23 year — a Member who be and still be very well respect by the community that he serve . I also pay special tribute to Betty Williams , who serve as the Labour MP for Conwy from 1997 to 2010 . she be a real Labour legend who be still remember with huge fondness locally . if I can be half as good an MP as Betty be , I will be do okay . I have listen to many maiden speech and note that there be hot competition for whose constituency be the most beautiful in all the land — I be sorry , but game on ! Bangor Aberconwy include the seaside resort of Llandudno , the historic town of Conwy , Betws - y - Coed , Bangor pier , the Carneddau mountain , the Dyffryn Ogwen valley — too many beautiful place to name . I must , of course , mention my hometown of Penmaenmawr , which be the favour holiday destination of Prime Minister William Gladstone , and my adopt home of Llanfairfechan . I have notice , too , that it be customary to elaborate on one ' s political root — childhood memory of be drag along to party meeting or fold leaflet at the kitchen table — but I be afraid that be not I . politic be not really discuss in our house . for our family , direct action mean go out with a bucket and torch to rescue frog . largely thank to my mother , my formative year be spend bird watching , pond dipping , bat counting and on long mountain walk . my mum know the value of our natural world and how vital it be that we protect it . I will make it my mission in this place to do so in her memory . when I be 11 , my mum ' s life change . she enrol on an access course , do a - level , then graduate with a degree in botany — no mean feat with three young kid . the fact that she be able to access high education be testament not only to the last Labour Government , but to the grit and determination of work people in our community . to understand why be to learn the found story of Bangor University : 140 year ago tomorrow , on 18 October 1884 , Bangor University open its door to its first ever cohort of student . Bangor University , the first in north Wales , be not found by rich benefactor or philanthropist , but quarryman and farmer who believe in the transformative power of education . they set aside money from their wage every week because they know then , as we know now , that education be the way to get on in life . our story be one of resilience and of people who believe in support each other . all across Bangor Aberconwy , you will find incredible people who work hard day in , day out to support other in our community — people like Jaynie Black and the volunteer at Ty Hapus ; Ginnie Rogers and the Friends of Mostyn Street ; Brenda at Hope Restored ; the wonderful woman I meet last week at Dyma Ni Befriending ; Pobl I Bobl ; Maes Ni ; Hwb Ogwen ; our food bank , our church and our mosque ; and our town , city and community councillor . there be too many to mention , but we owe they all a huge debt of thank . Diolch o galon I chi gyd . [ translation : Heartfelt thank to you all . ] I be proud to be part of a Labour Government who be firmly on the side of work people . I be proud to be part of a Labour Government who be committed to break down the barrier to opportunity for young people grow up in community like our . and I be proud to be part of a Labour Government who understand that tackle the climate and nature crisis be not only the big challenge we face , but an opportunity for economic growth . the subject of today ' s debate be this week ' s record - break international investment summit . before come to this place , I spend my career work with start - up and sme , so I know how important economic and political stability be for business . under this new Government , Britain be truly the good place to do business , and there be huge potential in our corner of Wales ready to be unleash . we have a proud industrial history ; a wealth of talent in science and technology ; and wind , wave and mountain range . everywhere you look , you will find ingenuity and innovation , and community full of pride , purpose and potential . to finish , I be proud of our past and I be excited for our future . whether you live in Penmaenmawr or Pwllglas , Bangor or Bontuchel , Conwy or Cerrigydrudion , I will fight tooth and nail to bring investment to our area , while promote our Welsh language and culture , to make sure that our young people know that these opportunity exist and be for they . there be much to do , and it will not happen overnight , but I hope to do every single one of my constituent proud .