Speaker ' s Statement before we begin today ' s proceeding , I would like to thank right hon . and hon . member in all part of the House for their kind message follow the death of my father . I gain so much from he : a love of cricket , of rugby league and of animal , but most of all , an abide sense of the importance of public service . he be a giant of the Labour and trade union movement and a great parliamentarian . I know he will be greatly miss by his former colleague in this House and in other place , but most of all by family and friend . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] I now turn to the election of the Chair of the Public Administration and Constitutional Affairs Committee . I wish to inform the House that I have receive a letter from the hon . member for Hazel Grove ( Mr Wragg ) inform I of his resignation as Chair of that Committee . I therefore declare the Chair vacant . nomination for the election of a successor be now open , and will close at 12 noon on Tuesday 7 May . nomination form be available from the Vote Office , the Table Office and the Public Bill Office . only Members of the conservative party may be candidate in this election . if there be more than one candidate , the ballot will take place on Wednesday 8 May . a briefing note with more information about the election will be make available from the Vote Office . Oral Answers to Questions Home Department the Secretary of State be ask — Net Migration what recent progress his Department have make on reduce net migration . I put on record my condolence for your loss , Mr Speaker . the Government have implement a number of measure to reduce net migration . those include restrict overseas student from bring family dependant to the UK while they study , stop overseas care worker from bring family dependant , increase the salary threshold for skilled worker visa — ultimately to £ 38 , 700 — and increase the minimum income requirement for family visa . we recognise that level of migration have be too high and , upon my appointment , I immediately take action to bring those figure down . I thank my right hon . friend for his answer , but one of the main driver of immigration over the past 20 year or so have be labour shortage cause by fall birth rate . accord to projection by Philip Pilkington and Paul Morland , if birth rate do not increase , immigration will have to rise to over a third of the population over the next 50 year if we be go to maintain a sufficient working - age population . immigration on this scale have no democratic consent and obviously my right hon . friend have promise repeatedly to reduce net migration , so what discussion have he have with colleague in the Treasury about this issue ? do he agree that the Government must have a strategy to address fall birth rate , to ensure that we do not always have to rely on ever - increase rate of immigration ? my hon . friend make an important point . birth rate be drive by myriad social and economic factor , which I have to concede be beyond my control , but I have speak with my right hon . friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer about relate issue and recognise that GDP per capita be an important metric , as be overall gdp . we be ensure that we invest in a british workforce : my right hon . friend the Education Secretary be passionate about apprenticeship and lifelong learning . we want to be a high - skilled , high - income economy , rather than a low - skilled , mass - migration economy . that remain the Government ' s priority , and we be take action through our immigration policy to reflect that desire . Trhas Teklehaimanot Tesfay be one of the elite female cyclist choose to lead RideLondon next month . she be also an asylum seeker , live in a hotel in my constituency where the food be so bad it make she sick and unable to compete . last month , an investigation by Sustain find food for asylum seeker that be undercooked , past its sell - by date and infest with insect , which in some case leave they malnourished and hospitalise . could the Secretary of State investigate this scandal and the responsibility of the contractor Clearsprings , so that asylum seeker such as Trhas be not subject to such dangerous and degrading condition ? Mr Speaker , I can assure you , the hon . Gentleman and the House that our contractor be expect to maintain standard and , where they fall below those standard , they will be hold to account . I will absolutely take note of the case that the hon . Gentleman have raise . I welcome the measure my right hon . friend have take to tackle the level of legal migration , but could he inform I what assessment he have make of the expect impact of the new immigration salary list and what impact that will have on the net migration figure ? my hon . friend be at the frontline of our fight against illegal migration , but legal migration be important . we have recognise that , for a number of reason , the figure have be too high in the most recent couple of year and I have list measure we have take . the combined impact of that be that , by our estimation , under the new regime that I have put in place , 300 , 000 people who would previously have be eligible will no long be eligible . that be the order of magnitude of change that we will eventually see once these proposal be fully implement . the refusal to allow care worker from overseas to bring a spouse with they come at the same time as , in Cumbria , we be find it impossible to fill at least a fifth of all the social care job . would the Home Secretary explain to constituent of mine who be unable to find people to care for they and their loved one why it seem sensible to make the life of people from overseas so miserable in come over here to care for our love one that they do not come at all ? I recognise that , in rural community , recruitment and retention of staff be difficult and in the hon . member ' s constituency — a wonderful , beautiful , but very rural constituency — there be particular pressure . I can assure he that the global supply of potential care worker be very significant . actually , the issue about where in the country those people work be more about the internal dynamic within the UK economy than the quantum of people around the world who would seek to work in the UK . there be plenty of people who would wish to work here , recognise that they be not allow to bring their dependant with they , but the issue of where in the country those people work be actually a broad issue . I call the SNP spokesperson . the cruel conservative hike to the visa minimum income threshold have cause deep distress — deep , deep distress — to many . do the Home Secretary understand the pain that these change have cause , and what message do he believe it send out to those who would do we the honour of make their home in these island that he put such a high price on love and family life ? it be absolutely right that any nation in the world put conditionality on the people it accept within its own border . this country have a long - stand tradition — in fact , I be a product of this , as be the Prime Minister , the Business and Trade Secretary and many other in the government — of be open and welcoming . however , when we see the order of magnitude of legal migration that we have see over the last couple of year , it be incumbent on we to take action . we have make it clear what action we will take , and we have give notice of the change so that people can make their plan accordingly . when there be special case , there be a special case exemption , so that we can both control immigration and do our moral duty to protect those people who seek our protection , and be an attractive place for people to come and work . Safer Streets Fund what recent assessment he have make of the adequacy of the level of funding allocate to the safe street fund . since 2020 , we have support 413 project through our safe street fund and the safety of woman at night fund , invest over £ 150 million , include £ 3 . 9 million that have be designate to Merseyside . the objective of the fund be to improve public protection — particularly that of woman , particularly at night — and independent evaluation show that it be more than achieve its objective . I do not think the Minister answer the question about the impact of the reduction . Merseyside have now receive a combine reduction of £ 180 , 000 to our safe street fund in round 5 . our police and crime commissioner , Emily Spurrell , have call this " ill - consider and short - sighted " because project have already begin and delivery be under way , but the funding have be restrict yet again . so will the Minister agree today to reinstate the lost funding , so that Merseyside police and other can continue their great work , keep our street safe ? may I just gently tell the hon . Lady that , in the last round of funding , round 4 , Merseyside receive £ 1 . 3 million through the safe street fund — that be quadruple what it have receive in round 3 — and over half a million of that be designate specifically to CCTV and street lighting in Liverpool city centre ? round 5 should be see in the context of record funding to the Merseyside police , who receive an unprecedented uplift of £ 27 . 6 million — a 6 . 5 % uplift . I be confident that Merseyside will still be able to deliver its scheme , include the safe home card provide safe transport to help woman get home from nightspot , in this round . in Essex , the police , fire and crime commissioner Roger Hirst have use the safe street money to pay for CCTV and safety measure in the Bunny Walks , to pay for safety improvement around Chelmsford Prison to keep resident safe , and more recently for CCTV camera in Central Park and the Avenues and extra safety measure around the cathedral . despite all this the local Lib Dems want to take credit for all of Roger ' s work , so will the Home Secretary pop down to Chelmsford to come and see I and Roger and make sure we say thank you to Roger for all he have do with this Government money to keep people safe ? I thank my right hon . friend for her question . she be correct . Roger Hirst have an exceptional track record as a police and crime commissioner . he have do outstanding work drive down antisocial behaviour and domestic burglary and the example she give be exactly what the safe street fund be for : bespoke , local , dedicated service that will improve public protection . I know that Essex police have high number than at any point in their 185 - year history , and I will certainly urge the Home Secretary to pay they a visit at the next available opportunity . I call the shadow Minister . thank you , Mr Speaker , and on behalf of the whole shadow Home Affairs team may I place on record our sincere condolence on the loss of your father ? follow the horrific killing of Kulsuma Akter in Bradford , who be tragically stab to death in broad daylight while push she three - year - old son in a pram , West Yorkshire and Greater Manchester police have refer themselves for investigation because of prior contact with Kulsuma and her husband , who have since be arrest for her murder . case of multiple contact with the police before violent escalation be all too common . labour will mandate domestic abuse and wide violence against woman and girl training for every police officer in the country and we will introduce Raneem ' s law to overhaul the police response when report be first make . so I ask the Minister , how many more woman will have to die before the Government can do the same ? the hon . Lady be right to mention the case of Kulsuma Akter . what happen to she be appalling . I obviously can not comment on any specific in relation to the case , but the hon . Lady will know that the bail condition that the perpetrator have be release under contain restriction that be breach themselves . so it be not a case of the court refuse to apply condition ; he breach they . in relation to her wide point , of course every single one of these case be a tragedy . she will know , because we have work on a cross - party basis in the past , how much time and attention we dedicate to this at the Home Office , but I simply say this . we now have domestic abuse training that have be roll out to over 80 % of force and the Home Secretary and I be work very closely with the nine outstanding one . they be on a timetable for delivery — I want to reassure the hon . Lady of that — and we now , this month , have train rape specialist in every single police force in England and Wales . Security Threat from China what recent assessment he have make with Cabinet colleague of the level of the security threat from China . I thank my hon . friend enormously for raise this question . let I be clear that the hostile activity we have see from chinese authority and state - affiliate group pose a serious threat to the security and wellbeing of the british people and to our partner and ally across the world . the Deputy Prime Minister come to this Chamber last month to speak about the pattern of malign activity , include the targeting of our parliamentarian and two malicious cyber - campaign by chinese state - affiliate actor . we must never be afraid to stand up for ourselves and to call out this kind of activity that have target both my hon . friend and I . Mr Speaker , may I add my personal condolence to you on the loss of your father ? I say to my right hon . friend that we have the scandal of the hacking of mps ' email account back in March and we subsequently learn that the FBI inform our Government — as well as foreign government who have legislator who be affect — about these incident two year ago . why have it take two year for we to be tell about a serious security breach ? will he now , with his colleague in Cabinet , make sure that China be absolutely treat and label as a threat , not just an " epoque - define systemic challenge " , and everything be do urgently to put China in the enhance tier of the foreign influence registration scheme ? my hon . friend , who have give this House and our country exceptional service over many year , and who will sadly be stand down at the next election , have again make some strong point . on the first , he know the language that I use and he have hear the word I have say . the reality be that we face threat from around the world , and many of they sadly be emerge out of Beijing today . we know it , we have see it , and many of we in this House feel it . it be not something we be shy away from . the reality , however , be that there be many different way of answer it . he have raise an important aspect on FIRS , which of course be be look at , but he will have hear the word of the Deputy Prime Minister in this Chamber only a few week ago and how clearly he make himself hear . I be sorry , but I be not convince by the Government ' s attitude on this . when the Deputy Prime Minister come to see we a few week ago , he do not say anything new ; he announce thing about event that happen two year ago . the Security Minister himself know of attempt by the Chinese Government to undermine the work of the Foreign Affairs Committee of this House . why be we only ever tell about thing that happen year ago ? if we be to take these issue seriously , we surely have to have an up - to - date and present account of the activity of the chinese state . the hon . member will well know that , when there be a reason to act quickly and draw something to the attention of the House , we do , as be the case with Christine Lee , which he will remember involve the payment of money to a certain Member of this House . the reason we take that action be because we need to expose it fast . I call the shadow Minister . the Biometrics and Surveillance Camera Commissioner say last year that our policing and security service be technologically vulnerable because of their use of Chinese - make equipment , include CCTV , drone and body camera . can the Minister say whether the digital asbestos of Chinese - make technology be still use in our policing and security infrastructure — yes or no ? my friend the hon . Member will know well that the work of Fraser Sampson before he retire or end his mandate last year have be fantastically important to many of we in make sure " digital asbestos " — I approve of the term — be get out of our institution . this be something that be ongoing . it have get out of the most secure site already , but there be other area where there be work to do , because an awful lot of site buy technology that would now be problematic . it be not just static site ; there be potential that some electric vehicle could be easily turn into mobile intelligence - gather platform by hostile state , so it be about look not simply at the past , but at the future . return Illegal Migrants to their Home Country what recent progress his Department have make on return illegal migrant to their home country . in 2023 , we deliver a strong removal performance , with overall return back to pre - covid level . in total , 26 , 000 be return , an increase of 74 % , at an average of 500 remove every week last year . I be grateful to the Minister for his response . can he update the House on how his Department be prioritise the return of foreign national offender to their home country to keep the street and community of the United Kingdom safe ? may I first pay tribute to my hon . friend and the work that go on in his constituency ? as he know , I visit Gatwick recently and see for myself the good work of the Border Force team there . he will be pleased to know that removal of foreign national offender be up last year by 27 % . we be committed to the removal of foreign criminal and those with no right to be in the United Kingdom . on that point , I sadly see many asylum seeker in Newport who be stick in limbo due to this Government ' s incompetence . however , can I draw the Minister ' s attention to the case of a man in Newport who lie about his name and country of origin and be a convict sex offender who have breach the term of his licence ? the court want he return home . he want to return home and will even pay for his flight , but for some unfathomable reason , the Home Office seem incapable of authorise or allow that . it have be three year — why ? the removal increase last year . it be interesting to note that Opposition Members , include the leader of the Labour party , have campaign to ensure they be prevent the deportation of foreign criminal . those on the Government Benches be determined to see foreign criminal remove , and there be an increase in removal of 74 % last year . I call the shadow Minister . under successive conservative government since 2010 , return of fail asylum seeker have collapse by 44 % , and return of foreign national offender have fall by almost 30 % over the same period . for all the Government ' s tough talk , only 2 % of those arrive on small boat since 2018 have be return anywhere , yet minister be still resist labour ' s plan for a new return and enforcement unit to ensure the swift removal of those with no right to be here . meanwhile , over the weekend , more people cross the channel in small boat than will be cover in the entire first year of the Government ' s fail Rwanda scheme . will the Minister stop the headline - chase gimmick and instead commit to set out his plan for the 99 % of people currently stick in the asylum system who will never be send to Rwanda ? the fact of the matter be that nearly 18 , 000 foreign national offender be return between January 2019 and December 2023 . the fact of the matter be that Opposition Members , include the leader of the Labour party , have campaign to prevent the deportation of foreign criminal , while Government member welcome an increase of 74 % , with an average of 500 people be remove every single week . neighbourhood police what recent assessment his Department have make of the adequacy of neighbourhood policing level . what step he have take to increase police visibility in local community . what step he have take to increase police visibility in local community . what recent assessment his Department have make of the adequacy of neighbourhood policing level . what recent assessment his Department have make of the adequacy of neighbourhood policing level . what step he have take to increase police visibility in local community . I be happy to remind the House that last year we reach record number of police officer — in excess of 149 , 000 , which be over 3 , 000 more than at the previous peak under the last Labour Government . in term of local policing , we achieve 67 , 785 as of March last year . under this Government , 10 , 000 neighbourhood police officer have disappear since 2015 and have yet to be replace on the frontline . give the Government ' s proclivity for lift Labour ' s policy , may I gently encourage the Minister to adopt Labour ' s plan to recruit 13 , 000 new neighbourhood police officer , allow for a name , contactable officer in every ward in the country ? the hon . Member be use figure that go up to 2019 . of course , the reason he be use figure that be five year out of date be that the number have go up since then . if we take neighbourhood policing as a whole , we see an increase of 6 , 000 , from 61 , 083 in 2015 — the year he mention — to 67 , 785 . I be surprised that he be not join I in welcome that . antisocial behaviour have be a big problem in Holyhead . almost £ 700 , 000 of UK Government safe street funding have be use for CCTV , improve lighting , self - defence training for local woman and girl , deliver crime prevention pack and outreach work . will the Minister join I in thank Chief Inspector Robert Rands , PC Lisa Thomas and many other who work so hard to improve the life of people who live and work in Holyhead ? I certainly join my hon . friend in thank those officer as well as countless thousand of other around the country who do such good work . on ASB , in addition to the safe street money that she mention , from the beginning of this month we have an extra £ 66 million of funding for antisocial behaviour hotspot patrolling . every single one of England and Wales ' s police force will get that , and that will make an enormous difference in combat the scourge of ASB . do the Minister agree that get extra officer out in our community should be top of the list for any police and crime commissioner ? unfortunately , in Durham , we see that the Labour PCC be more interested in increase her back - office staff and oversee a decline in standard , with the late police effectiveness , efficiency and legitimacy report show two area require improvement for the first time ever in Durham . do he agree that the soon we get an ex - beat cop in place , such as the conservative candidate , Rob Potts , the soon Durham will return to be an outstanding police force ? I completely agree . spend money on thing such as flowerbed and diversity staff instead of frontline police officer be the wrong priority . former frontline officer such as Rob Potts , run for pcc in Durham , will do a good job of get priority straight . Kulsuma Akter from Oldham be murder by her estranged husband on a busy Bradford street in the middle of the day , in front of their baby son . Research have repeatedly show that regular foot patrol — especially in crime hotspot — lead to reduce offending and increase public confidence , particularly if combine with community - base prevention . Greater Manchester police and West Yorkshire police want to learn lesson from this tragic murder . what lesson have the Home Secretary learn about reduce neighbourhood policing and the prevalence of such appalling crime ? that be a tragic case , and we will study any finding by the Independent Office for Police Conduct very carefully . the hon . Lady mention hotspot patrolling ; I mention in a previous answer that the Government be provide £ 66 million this financial year on top of the regular police funding settlement to fund hotspot patrolling , which may help in such situation . to repeat a previous point , local policing number have go up by about 6 , 500 since 2015 . selectively quote figure that be five year old do nothing to help public debate . Halesowen police station be under threat of closure thank to decision take by the Labour west midland police and crime commissioner . Tom Byrne , the conservative candidate for PCC , say that he will stop that closure programme . do the Minister agree with I and Tom Byrne that keep Halesowen police station open be critical for community confidence and for the effectiveness of neighbourhood police ? I agree very strongly . the Labour PCC ' s police station closure plan in the west midland be shocking . this year , West Midlands police be get an extra £ 50 million — a 6 . 8 % increase and well above the rate of inflation . Tom Byrne would do an excellent job of make sure that that maintain frontline service , which be exactly how that money should be spend . Northumbria police force have lose 11 , 000 officer and £ 148 million from its budget since 2010 . even after the uplift it will remain 427 officer short compare with 2010 level . will the Minister support the call from Northumbria ' s PCC Kim McGuinness for further investigation into police resource as , clearly , not all area of the country have benefit equally from the uplift programme ? I be pleased to tell the House that for this financial year , which start just a couple of week ago , Northumbria force ' s funding have go up by £ 28 million — a 7 . 6 % increase and more than double the rate of inflation . the resource be there , but use those resource wisely be a matter for police and crime commissioner . conservative police and crime commissioner tend to spend those resource most wisely . violence against Shop Workers what step his Department be take to help tackle violence against shop worker . violence and abuse towards shop worker be not and will never be acceptable . last October the police publish a retail crime action plan , which the Government have embrace and enhance . last week we launch the fight retail crime action plan , which include a commitment to create a new offence of assault a retail worker , as the sector have be call for . last week I meet a shopkeeper in Hounslow who have be repeatedly target by shoplifter . the family who own the shop can not afford security guard or to lose a large amount of stock , unlike the big chain . it be welcome that the Government have finally back Labour ' s 10 - year campaign , along with the Union of Shop , Distributive and Allied Workers and other campaigner , to introduce a stand - alone offence of assault against a shop worker , but will the Minister go far and scrap the unfair £ 200 minimum , which leave offender get away with impunity ? shoplifting be still a criminal offence , irrespective of the financial value of what be take . we have make a clear commitment to ensure that shopkeeper be protect and that the retail environment be safe . that be why we have put in place fund to put more police officer on the street and why , as my right hon . friend the Member for Croydon South ( Chris Philp ) just mention , neighbourhood police number be up . we have commit the police to pursue all reasonable line of inquiry , and I be proud that we have put in place a specific criminal offence of assault against a retail worker . for our high street to thrive , people need to perceive they as safe place to be , but there be real concern that the Mayor of London be fail to get the Met to take retail crime seriously enough . do my right hon . friend agree that we need a new Mayor for London , Susan Hall , to ensure we have more effective policing on our high street ? quite frankly , the Mayor of London have be a massive disappointment when it come to the policing of London . the Met be the only police force in the country to see its police number reduce . it have fail to meet its recruitment target . quite frankly , londoner deserve well . as the chair of the all - party parliamentary group on retail crime , I welcome the announcement , as I be sure will shop worker everywhere . when will the announcement be operationalise , and what be the monitoring process , so that we can all judge whether they be not just word but action ? the hon . Gentleman make an important point . we be put the change through as amendment to the Criminal Justice Bill . the soon it make its passage through the House , the quick we can put these specific change in place , but we be not wait for that . we have have conversation with police force to ensure there be visible police on our high street and that they respond to every reasonable line of inquiry , send a signal to retailer and potential criminal that we take this issue incredibly seriously , and that the police will respond to this important type of crime . I realise the Home Secretary may be sick of hear from I about assault on retail worker , but I welcome the huge and comprehensive package announce last week to support they . will my right hon . friend implement the measure as quickly as possible to benefit retail worker across Stockton South and the rest of the country ? I pay tribute to my hon . friend , who have campaign vigorously on this issue and meet I on a number of occasion to go through the specific of the proposal , work closely with the Secretary of State for Justice , my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Cheltenham ( Alex Chalk ) , to ensure that both the police response and the criminal response send a very clear deterrent to those who may be tempt to assault retail worker . it be not acceptable and we will take action . I call the shadow Minister . in January , the Government vote down our late attempt to introduce a stand - alone offence tackle violence against retail worker , continue a pattern of year of fail to address this issue while such violence reach epidemic proportion . last week — surprise , surprise — they u - turn and an offence be now to follow . when will the Government follow that up by steal the other idea they keep deny : a restoration of neighbourhood policing , which be down between 2015 and 2023 — not the response officer they have be talk about , but proper neighbourhood policing ; and get rid of the £ 200 limit ? member should recognise that just because a clause might have a similar sound name , it do not mean it be the same . the simple truth of the matter be that the Opposition clause be deficient in many way . the clause that we will put forward in the Criminal Justice Bill will address the issue . on local policing , the hon . Lady should recognise that there have be a 6 , 000 uplift . Antisocial Behaviour what step his Department be take to help tackle antisocial behaviour . last year , we launch the antisocial behaviour action plan , back by £ 160 million - worth of funding and over 100 , 000 hour of police and other uniformed patrol undertake to target antisocial behaviour hotspot , extend to every single police force in England and Wales . we ban nitrous oxide , increase fine for fly - tipping , litter and graffiti , and be strengthen power to tackle antisocial behaviour through the Criminal Justice Bill that be make its way through the House . one of the aspect of antisocial behaviour that really annoy my constituent be persistent cannabis smoking by people in their own home , particularly , but not exclusively , in block of flat . when I raise the matter with the police , they tell I that they be not go to go into people ' s home and deal with it . I do not think that that be good enough ; do the Home Secretary ? the police should take action when there be credible reporting of criminal behaviour . I have have this conversation with police leader from area around the country , and it be a conversation that we will continue to have with the police . People need not only to be safe but to feel safe , in their community and in their home . my condolence to you , Mr Speaker . protester who recently create an obnoxious stunt outside the home of the Leader of the Opposition belong in jail , as do the trust fund vandal who cause ten of thousand of pound ' worth of damage outside the Ministry of Defence last week . the truth be that frontline politician of any political hue , and our military personnel , be prepared to put themselves forward to serve and protect this country , which be , of course , a concept that the vandal would know nothing about . when it come to this type of antisocial behaviour , will my right hon . friend consider increase visibility at high - profile location such as those that I have mention ? my right hon . and learn Friend have raise a couple of point . first , it be completely unacceptable to try to intimidate parliamentarian whatever their political hue , and I will stand shoulder to shoulder with they regardless of their political party in defend their right to do and say what they believe to be in the good interest of their country and their community without fear of intimidation . that be an absolute red line , and it will be enforce . secondly , these petulant act of vandalism in the name of protest be unacceptable . when criminal damage occur , it will be pursue , and in the Criminal Justice Bill we be take specific action to remove the veneer of a defence that criminal behaviour be somehow justify because people be not get their way at the ballot box . too many resident in Nottingham South tell I that antisocial behaviour be make their life a misery . they never see a bobby walk the street , and under the lawbreaking Tory police and crime commissioner , nottinghamshire police have be place in special measure , with his Majesty ' s inspectorate of constabulary and fire and rescue service say that the force be let victim down . my constituent tell I that they will be vote for Labour ' s Gary Godden on 2 May , in order to rebuild neighbourhood policing and adopt a zero - tolerance approach to antisocial behaviour . they be right , be they not ? they would be very wrong if they vote Labour expect that that would increase a police presence . across the country we have see over and over again that the well - perform police area be typically control by conservative police and crime commissioner . I know the situation in Nottinghamshire very well , and I have speak directly to its police and crime commissioner , who have a clear plan of action to ensure that she continue to put police officer on the frontline . labour - run police force in the area have be sadly lack in that regard . follow an increase in antisocial behaviour in Tunstall , I be proud to work with more than 500 local resident to gain support for new CCTV , new alley gate and well street lighting through the safe street fund . however , when I meet the Labour leader of Stoke - on - Trent City Council , she tell I that there would be no money for Tunstall — and , to make matter bad , she have dump some undesirable in the Sneyd Arms hotel in the town centre , which have lead to further criminal activity that be blight high street store throughout our community . do the Home Secretary agree with I that , thank God , Ben Adams , Staffordshire ' s police , fire and crime commissioner , be listen and ensure that we receive that safe street fund so that those in our community would feel safe , and that people should vote for Ben on 2 May ? I could hardly have put it well myself . I recently visit the wonderful town of Stoke and see the passion of its people . this be a classic example of local leadership in the hand of the Labour party fail people , and local leadership in the hand of Conservatives defend they . Visa Scheme for palestinian Refugees if he will make an assessment of the potential merit of introduce a visa scheme for palestinian refugee . we be all concerned about the plight of those live in Gaza . currently , we be not consider establish a separate route for Palestinians . in any humanitarian situation , the UK must consider its resettlement approach in the round , rather than on a crisis - by - crisis basis . it be not surprising that the upper tribunal find the decision to require biometric datum for people from Gaza to be " irrational and unreasonable " , because most of we find that to apply to most decision make by the Home Office . be it not also irrational and unreasonable for the United Kingdom to offer humanitarian visa to people catch up in the conflict in Ukraine , Syria and Afghanistan , but not to offer such visa to people flee the conflict in Gaza ? I will not give a running commentary on ongoing litigation , but I can say that we be support british national with dependant in Gaza to get those individual out of Gaza safely , work in collaboration with Foreign Office colleague . there be also mark difference at play here . of course , the right of return be fundamental as part of effort towards a two - state solution , and other factor be at play in respond to the ukrainian situation . the dynamic be very different , which directly affect the relationship we have with the Ukrainian Government , particularly in respect of the ability to carry out check on individual . I call the SNP spokesperson . Gaza Families Reunited ' s petition for a palestinian family visa scheme have garner 100 , 000 signature , and I hope it will soon be debate in Parliament . gazan be stick in a cruel and irrational Catch - 22 situation : they can not cross the border to Egypt because they do not have visa , as they can not get their biometric register , but they can not get their biometric register because they can not get to a visa application centre in Egypt . the Government have the power to waive the requirement for biometric to be register , and it be in the Minister ' s hand to do so . why win ' t he ? the hon . Lady will appreciate that the security of the system be imperative . we must act in accordance with the requirement , which we put front and centre . I will not comment on ongoing litigation , but I can say that we will continue to work with Foreign Office colleague in the way that we have describe . element of the peace process be at play in relation to these issue , but we will keep our response to this crisis under review as matter develop . Asylum Seekers accommodate in Hotels what progress he have make on reduce the number of asylum seeker accommodate in hotel . what progress his Department have make on close asylum hotel . the Home Office have be clear that the use of hotel be a temporary and short - term measure to ensure that we meet our statutory obligation to accommodate destitute asylum seeker . we have make significant progress in close over 100 asylum hotel as of the end of March . our action mean that there be over 20 , 000 few asylum seeker in hotel today compare with six month ago . do the Minister ' s ambition extend to close all the hotel ? my right hon . friend be absolutely right that the Government ' s ambition be to close the hotel . we close 100 by the end of March , and we be work towards close 150 by May . fundamentally , the objective be to alter the way in which people be accommodate and to introduce more cost - effective and appropriate approach , but also to reduce the flow of people come into this country illegally , which be the very good way of alleviate the pressure . I welcome all the effort that my hon . friend be make to deal with and speed up the asylum process . however , will he outline what measure he consider when decide which hotel to close in each tranche ? my right hon . friend will recognise that value for money be a critical consideration that inform hotel closure decision , as be operational deliverability and the notice period on contract . it be also about recognise the need in particular location and the challenge that these site present . we have a plan , we be closing hotel , and we will continue to deliver on precisely what we promise . for almost two year , the Sandpiper Hotel in Chesterfield have be use as a hotel for asylum seeker . the North Derbyshire Refugee Support Group have tell I that not a single person who have stay there have be ask to go back to their country . in fact , the vast majority of they have have their application approve , which undermine the Government ' s suggestion that all these asylum seeker be not entitle to be here . actually , the Government approve the vast majority of application , so their approach be a waste of money . why do the Government continue to fail in this way ? for the Minister to celebrate the extraordinary usage of hotel just because it be diminish slightly be hopeless . when will we get the Sandpiper back in public use ? I think it be interesting that a Labour insider say to the Times last week : " we need a viable answer to what we ' d do differently other than just ' smash the gang ' " and that " we can ' t currently say how we be go to tackle the demand side of the issue . " they be absolutely right . I suspect we will be wait a very long time for the answer . that go right to the heart of the point that the hon . Gentleman raise . he say that we ought to be close the hotel , but it be only this Government that have a credible plan to do just that . Mr Speaker , may I pass on the condolence of myself and my party on the death of your father ? we know you love your father , and we know that your father love you . when it come to reduce the number of asylum seeker , I want to suggest one option to the Minister that we could certainly do in Strangford . for those people who be in hotel , there be company in my constituency that wish to employ they and to give they accommodation at the same time . if we want to help the asylum seeker in the hotel in my constituency , and in the consistency adjoining mine , then let they get the job and let they get the accommodation . while I be always very willing to engage with the hon . Gentleman , he will appreciate that the difficulty that we have in respect of that approach be the pull factor that it would present — it would potentially encourage people to make dangerous journey via small boat to get to the UK . we do not want to do anything that play into the business model of the evil criminal gang responsible for that miserable trade . what we want to do be put they out of business . on the wide accommodation point , I be very happy to engage with the hon . Gentleman . in 2016 , Middlesbrough have the high ratio of asylum seeker per head of population of anywhere in England . I welcome the closure of hotel , but I worry about report in today ' s Daily Mail that the Home Office be buy up large amount of property in some of the poor area of England , which risk take we back to the situation we see in 2016 . will the Minister reassure I that that be not the case , because my constituent be clear that that place an unacceptable strain on the community , and indeed an unhappy strain on community cohesion ? my right hon . friend be a strong supporter of the work the Government be do to get a well grip on the flow of people come across to our country , who inevitably need accommodate while they be here . we have a mixture of accommodation to meet those need , and get the number down be critical to be able to reduce that dependence . I be able to say , however , that we be not actively pursue procurement in the three local authority cite in the article that my right hon . friend reference — and that include Middlesbrough . my sincere condolence , Mr Speaker . the Government promise some considerable time ago that a hotel use in my constituency would no long be use to house those seek asylum . that be not the case ; it have almost become de facto permanent . could the Minister speak to I — not necessarily on the Floor of the House , but separately — and give I an assurance that there will be a manage closure of that facility ? what I can not do on the Floor of the House be make commitment about specific hotel , but I would be very happy to meet the hon . gentleman to discuss this . what he could do to help I with this particular challenge be to get behind the work that the Government be do to reduce the flow of people come to the UK , which fundamentally and crucially would help we to be able to close hotel such as the one in his constituency . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . we have increase the volume of asylum case process . we successfully meet a ministerial commitment to close over 50 asylum - seeker hotel by January 2024 , and we have close over 100 by the end of March . last year , I bring forward measure to make legal migration fairer and to radically reduce the number ; 300 , 000 people who come to the UK last year would not now be eligible to do so . anyone who want to bring a family from abroad must be able comfortably to support they financially . in the Budget , the Government put forward £ 75 million to roll out violence reduction unit and hotspot police across England and Wales , and £ 230 million for technology that will save the police time and money and make sure that police officer be on the frontline do the job that they be recruit to do . may I add my condolence , Mr Speaker ? my right hon . friend will be aware that police number in Essex be at record level and that overall crime be down . however , there have be a rise in vehicle theft . will he therefore welcome the effort of our excellent police , fire and crime commissioner , Roger Hirst , in establish a steal vehicle intelligence unit that have so far recover £ 14 million - worth of vehicle ? will he look at what further support can be give to Roger Hirst to tackle this crime ? my right hon . friend be right to highlight the fantastic work of Roger Hirst and the steal vehicle intelligence unit . a number of large - scale seizure have be make against attempt vehicle export . the Government have reduce vehicle - relate crime by 39 % since 2010 , and we seek to go far through the Criminal Justice Bill . we want to see more innovative approach like the one take by Roger Hirst , which be why I be very proud to campaign alongside he . he have do fantastic work to protect the people of Essex . I call the shadow Home Secretary . Mr Speaker , I remember the kindness that your father show I and our long discussion on rugby league . I add my condolence . the Hillsborough tragedy be 35 year ago to the hour . we remember the 97 who be lose and support the family ' campaign for a Hillsborough law . we strongly condemn Iran ' s attack on Israel this weekend , and we must do everything we can to prevent further escalation in the middle east , but there be also domestic security issue in relation to Iran . the Iran International journalist Pouria Zeraati be attack on the street of London a few week ago follow repeat Iran - relate security threat on british soil , include threat to kidnap and kill . do the Home Secretary believe it be now time to proscribe the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps in the UK ? the right hon . Lady will know that we keep our response to Iran under constant review , and of course we have do so in the light of the attack in Wimbledon . we do not speculate about future designation or sanction , but she will know that the irgc be sanction in its entirety and a number of its member be sanction as individual . as she know , we will keep this under constant review . the Home Secretary will know that we have raise this many time . I understand the complexity of the issue . the proscribing legislation be draw up more than 20 year ago to address terrorist threat such as al - Qaeda , rather than state - sponsor threat that have both domestic and international security objective . our bottom line must be keep this country safe , which be why Labour have propose new security legislation to allow the Government to put appropriately target proscription - style restriction on the operation of state - link organisation such as the irgc . the Government previously resist this , but will he look at it again in the light of recent event and work with we on any legislation that be need to keep this country safe ? we have the National Security Act 2023 and a range of tool at our disposal . defence against state threat be one of the Department ' s priority , and my right hon . friend the Security Minister lead on its practical implementation . I can reassure the shadow Home Secretary and the House that we constantly review the range of option at our disposal and deploy those that be most appropriate . protect the UK and the people live and work here against state threat will always be a priority of this Government . will my right hon . friend the Minister for Crime , Policing and Fire support the excellent initiative of a number of conservative police and crime commissioner to include fill in pothole as part of the community payback initiative for convict offender ? will he apply pressure on the Ministry of Justice to get this up and run as soon as possible ? my hon . friend raise an excellent idea that have my enthusiastic support . I will do exactly as he ask straightaway . I offer you my condolence , Mr Speaker . the former chief inspector of border and immigration recently produce a report state that 275 certificate of sponsorship be grant to a company that use forge document and purport to be a real care home . such Home Office failure clearly leave people at risk of exploitation and modern slavery , so what step be the Minister take to make the system more robust and to protect vulnerable people who come here to work in our care system ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady for that question . we respond within the eight - week deadline to that icibi report and accept the recommendation make to we in it . we be work through they , but work be already in train , particularly in collaboration with the Care Quality Commission , on well accreditation practice for care provider when we be match people to those visa . outdated law be allow child sexual predator and offender to enter or leave our country while in possession of illegal material on their digital device because Border Force do not have the power to access they . will my right hon . friend work with his colleague in the Ministry of Justice to consider the merit of a new offence of wilful obstruction , under which an individual could be prosecute if they fail to unlock their device to allow they to be properly search ? I thank my hon . friend for her work in this area . the issue that she raise be of direct importance to intelligence gathering and child protection . my official have be work closely with Border Force to ensure that its power keep pace with the digital age . when the next legislative opportunity arise , if not before , we will carefully consider give Border Force power to compel individual to submit to search of their device , if they be suspect of hold child sexual abuse material . the murder of Gracie Spinks in Chesterfield send shockwave through the town , and the report on Derbyshire police ' s handling of this desperately unhappy situation be salutary . there be still far too much inconsistency in how stalking and violence against woman be handle , so will the Home Secretary back Labour ' s plan to bring in mandatory national standard , and mandatory training on tackle violence against woman , so that we see consistency in police on stalk right across the country ? I reassure the hon . Gentleman and the House that , under my leadership , the Home Office and police across the UK will maintain its focus on prevent violence against woman and girl . we have a roll - out of police guidance and training when it come to woman and girl . I will listen carefully to the proposal he have put forward , because we want to make sure that woman and girl feel safe in this country . this Government champion fantastic animal welfare standard . my constituent would like to see alternative to animal testing wherever possible , and would be keen to hear a vital update from the Department . give that interest be about to switch in this House to a different matter , I will be brief . I promise to write to my hon . friend on this , but she should know that this Government have already double spending on find alternative to animal testing . we will continue to make sure that the inspection regime be as strict as possible , to make sure that when animal need to be use , the condition be as humane as possible . will the Home Secretary tell we what level of auditing there will be of the hundred of million of pound be send to Rwanda ? in particular , will he guarantee that no UK taxpayer ' cash will , either directly or indirectly , be use to fund the M23 militia in the Democratic Republic of the Congo ? all our overseas expenditure , whether it be through official development assistance or through contractual relationship , such as the one with Rwanda , be always robustly police to ensure that it be spend exclusively on the issue that it be design to address . we have a strong , good work relationship with the Government of Rwanda , who be absolutely committed to be the exporter of solution to global problem , rather than the exporter of problem . the people of Romford be angry that they be not get the police cover from the Mayor of London that we pay for . we be see a crime wave across Romford , include in Gidea Park , and we have see a stabbing in the town centre . we have have enough . will the Minister please ensure reform , so that Essex town such as Romford get the service that Roger Hirst give to the people of the historic county ? my hon . friend be quite right to draw attention to the contrast between the excellent work do by Roger Hirst in Essex and the appalling job be do by Sadiq Khan in London . Sadiq Khan be the only one of the 43 police and crime commissioner to have miss his recruitment target and , tragically , police officer number be fall in London , in contrast to the rest of the country . londoner will have a chance to cast their vote on 2 May , and I hope that they kick he out . my constituent Maysara be a british citizen , and his parent live in Gaza . his parent successfully apply for visa to visit he in the autumn last year , but they be unable to travel after 7 October , and their visa expire . I contact the Home Office on Maysara ' s behalf to ask if those visa could be extend , but I be tell that his parent would have to make new application . however , there be no function visa application centre in Gaza , so will the Minister explain what exactly my constituent ' s parent should do ? I be more than happy to look at the detail of the case . the hon . Gentleman have to understand that the circumstance on the ground change dramatically after Hamas ' brutal mass murder rampage on 7 October , and our security posture in the region have have to be enhance . I be not make any implication about his constituent ' s family , but he and the House will understand that we must be careful in everything we do when it come to accept people who be leave Gaza in these circumstance . Iran - Israel Update Mr Speaker , before I start , I would like to express my deep sympathy , and I be sure that of the whole House , on the death of your father . he be a true giant of not just this House , but the other place , too . I also want to express my solidarity with our australian friend after the horrific and senseless attack in Sydney in recent day . our thought be with all those affect . on Saturday evening , Iran seek to plunge the middle east into a new crisis . it launch a barrage of missile and attack drone over Iraq and Jordan , and towards Israel . the scale of the attack , and the fact that it be target directly at Israel , be without precedent . it be a reckless and dangerous escalation . if it have succeed , the fallout for regional security and the toll on israeli citizen would have be catastrophic , but it do not succeed . in support of Israel ' s own defensive action , the United Kingdom join a US - lead international effort , along with France and partner in the region , that intercept almost all of the missile , save life in Israel and its neighbour . we send additional RAF Typhoons to the region as part of our exist operation against Daesh in Iraq and Syria , and I can confirm that our force destroy a number of iranian drone . we also provide important intelligence , surveillance and reconnaissance support for our partner . our pilot put themselves in harm ' s way to protect the innocent and preserve peace and stability . I speak to the RAF early today ; they be the good of the good , and I know that the whole House will join I in express our gratitude . with this attack , Iran have once again show its true colour . it be intent on sow chaos in its own backyard — on far destabilise the middle east . our aim be to support stability and security because that be right for the region , and because although the middle east be thousand of mile away , it have a direct effect on our security and prosperity at home , so we be work urgently with our ally to de - escalate the situation and prevent further bloodshed . we want to see calm head prevail , and we be direct all our diplomatic effort to that end . yesterday I speak to my fellow G7 leader . we be unite in our condemnation of this attack . we discuss further potential diplomatic measure , which we will be work together to co - ordinate in the come day . I will also shortly speak to Prime Minister Netanyahu to express our solidarity with Israel in the face of this attack , and to discuss how we can prevent further escalation . all side must show restraint . our action reflect our wide strategy in the middle east , which I have set out in the House previously . I believe there be three vital step to put the region on to a well path . first , we must uphold regional security against hostile actor , include in the Red sea , and we must ensure Israel ' s security . that be non - negotiable and a fundamental condition for peace in the region . in the face of the threat that we see this weekend , Israel have our full support . secondly , we must invest more deeply in the two - state solution . that be what we have be do over the past six month , include work closely with the Palestinian Authority , so that when the time come , they can provide more effective governance for Gaza and the west bank . it be significant that other regional partner actually help to prevent a much bad attack over the weekend . it remind we how important the attempt to normalise relation between Israel and its neighbour really be , and they hold out precious hope for the region . thirdly , the conflict in Gaza must end . Hamas , who be back by Iran , start this war . they want not just to kill and murder , but to destabilise the whole region . this weekend , they reject the late hostage deal , which offer a road to a ceasefire . it be Israel ' s right , and indeed its duty , to defeat the threat from Hamas terrorist and defend its security . I want to be clear : nothing that have happen over the past 48 hour affect our position on Gaza . the appalling toll on civilian continue to grow — the hunger , the desperation and the loss of life on an awful scale . the whole country want to see an end to the bloodshed , and to see more humanitarian support go in . the recent increase in aid flow be positive , but it be still not enough . we need to see new crossing open for long to get in vital supply . I want to take this opportunity , Mr Speaker , to pay tribute to the three british aid worker who be kill in Gaza : John Chapman , James Kirby and James Henderson . they be hero . the child of Gaza whom they be risk their life to feed need a humanitarian pause immediately , lead to a long - term sustainable ceasefire . that be the fast way to get hostage out and aid in , and to stop the fighting . Israelis and Palestinians alike deserve to live in peace , dignity and security , and so do people across the entire region . in conclusion , Saturday ' s attack be the act not of a people , but of a despotic regime , and it be emblematic of the danger that we face today . the link between such regime be grow . Tel Aviv be not the only target of iranian drone on Saturday ; Putin be also launch they at Kyiv and Kharkiv . and who be the sole voice speak up for Iran yesterday , seek to justify its action ? Russia . the threat to stability be grow , not just in the middle east but everywhere , and we be meet those threat , time after time , with british force at the forefront . it be why our pilot be in action this weekend . it be why they have be police the sky above Iraq and Syria for a decade . it be why our sailor be defend freedom of navigation in the Red sea against the reckless attack of the Iran - back Houthi militia . it be why our soldier be on the ground in Kosovo , Estonia , Poland and elsewhere , and it be why we have lead the way in back Ukraine , and we will continue to back it for as long as it take . when adversary such as Russia or Iran threaten peace and prosperity , we will always stand in their way , ready to defend our value and our interest , shoulder to shoulder with our friend and our ally . I commend this statement to the House . I call the Leader of the Opposition . I thank the Prime Minister for an advance copy of his statement , and for the regular briefing on the develop situation in the middle east . I also thank he for his warm tribute to your father , Mr Speaker . Doug Hoyle be a great servant of our party , respect by all who know he . I also join the Prime Minister in offer our solidarity with the victim of the horrific attack in Sydney , and in recognise the heroism of the three british aid worker kill in Gaza while work for World Central Kitchen . turn to the event of this weekend , we support the defensive action take by the UK , alongside our international ally , against the iranian attack on Israel , and we welcome the Prime Minister ' s call for restraint . once again , we all salute the professionalism and bravery of our armed force . we also support the RAF plane be send to the region to bolster Operation Shader . their effort be vital for a safe world . there can be no doubt that the attack perpetrate by iranian force this weekend have leave the world a more dangerous place . it target innocent civilian , with a clear intent to destabilise the region . it must be wholly condemn by all , but let we also be clear that a full - scale conflict in the middle east be in no one ' s interest . it be a path that can only lead to more bloodshed , more instability and the unleashing of force that be beyond the ability of anyone to control . the combine defensive action this weekend be a success and , because of that , life be save . as a result , escalation be not inevitable . in repel the attack , Israel show strength and courage . it must now show the same strength and courage to de - escalate . that have to be the primary objective , and that be the responsibility of all side and every partner . we must be resolute and unite in our support for the collective security of Israel , Jordan and other partner in the region . but tension remain very high . we must proceed calmly , carefully and with restraint , because if diplomacy take centre stage — and it must — we also need to be clear that diplomatic premise should not be target and attack . that be a point of principle , but as the condemnation from our G7 ally rightly note , Iran ' s response this weekend be unprecedented — a further step towards the destabilisation of the region and the risk of escalation . nobody in this House should be , or be , under any illusion : this be a regime that sponsor terror across the middle east and beyond , that murder and repress its own people and support Putin ' s war effort in Ukraine . so can the Prime Minister update the House on any new step he be take with our international partner to pursue sanction against the regime , and can he clarify what step he be take to limit the power of the revolutionary guard to glorify terrorism here in the UK ? while there be no justification for Iran ' s action , we can not be naive to the fact that one of the driver of tension in the region be the ongoing war in Gaza . six month on from the horrific Hamas terror attack , hostage remain separated from their family , thousand of innocent Palestinians have be kill , and now more than a million people face the imminent threat of famine — so I urge the Government again to use every ounce of diplomatic leverage that we have to make sure that aid to Gaza be unimpeded and drastically scale up . alongside that , we reiterate our call for an immediate ceasefire , for Hamas to release hostage and for a return to a diplomatic process that can rekindle the hope of a two - state solution . it be right that we condemn Iran ' s action , it be right that we work with other to defend the security of our ally , and it be right that we seek the end of conflict in Gaza . but this be a moment for restraint , because escalation will only lead to further destruction ; and , for the sake of all those still catch in the horror and violence , that must be avoid . I thank the right hon . and learn Gentleman for his support of the Government ' s action . with regard to what might happen go forward , ultimately , Israel have a right to self - defence , as any state do . the G7 leader speak yesterday and unequivocally condemn Iran ' s attack , and express full solidarity and support for Israel and its people . but as the Foreign Secretary say this morning , this be a time to be " smart as well as tough " . Israel have incredibly successfully repel the iranian attack , and Iran be even more isolated on the world stage . as other have say , we urge Israel to take the win at this point . we want to avoid further escalation and bloodshed — the right hon . and learn Gentleman be right that that would be deeply destabilising for the region and would risk more life — and all our diplomatic effort at this point will be gear towards that goal , in partnership with our ally . as I have say previously , the behaviour of the iranian regime , include the action of IRGC , pose a significant threat to the safety and security of the UK and our ally . yesterday at the G7 , we agree to work together on further measure to counter the iranian regime and its proxy . it be agree that we should co - ordinate those action , and that work be now under way . obviously , at the appropriate time , I or Ministers will update the House . as the right hon . and learn Gentleman will know , we have already sanction over 400 iranian individual , include the irgc in its entirety . we put in place at the end of last year a new sanction regime that give we more extensive power to designate sanction , and of course , the National Security Act 2023 create new offence for espionage and foreign interference , and mean that our security service have the power that they need to deter , disrupt and detect threat of a more modern nature from state such as Iran . lastly , with regard to diplomacy for Israel and the region , we be absolutely committed to a two - state solution . we have be work very hard and use all our effort to bring that about , particularly over the past few month , by build up the capability of the Palestinian Authority , as I have say , so that they have the necessary technical and administrative capability when the moment come for they to provide effective governance in the west bank and Gaza . it be absolutely my view , and that of the Government , that Israelis and Palestinians should have the opportunity to live side by side in peace , with security , dignity and opportunity , and I be proud of the role that the United Kingdom be play . I call the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee . my condolence , Mr Speaker , on the loss of your father . this remain a dangerous moment , yet over the weekend we see a demonstration of unity and purpose . we see the depth of will for normalisation and for a secure future for all people of the middle east . restraint be vital if we want to build on the momentum to get hostage home to their family and to get improvement to continue aid , but to well protect our people , will my right hon . friend commit to launch with our ally a new consensus on Iran and a new effort — with combined diplomatic , military and wide expert area — to limit the extent of the atrocity of Iran ? we need to end the compartmentalisation of threat when we deal with Iran ; we must deal with it as one , whether on its nuclear ambitious , the arming of the militia , femicide or transnational repression . only with a new consensus will we see that progress , so will he please commit to lead that internationally ? I can give my hon . friend that commitment . that be exactly the subject of our discussion among the G7 leader yesterday . she mention nuclear . Iran ' s nuclear programme have never be more advanced than it be today ; it threaten international peace and security . there be absolutely no justification , at a civilian level , for the enrichment that we be see and which the International Atomic Energy Agency have report in Iran . I want to reassure she that we be consider next step on the nuclear file with our international partner , and we be commit to use all diplomatic tool available to ensure that Iran never develop a nuclear weapon , include use the snapback mechanism if necessary . I call the SNP spokesperson . I echo the Prime Minister in pass on our thought not only to you , Mr Speaker , but to the family of the aid worker who have be kill in Gaza . I condemn the act of violence by the iranian regime . they be no more than a cynical attempt to exploit the suffering , pain and turmoil be experience by people in Palestine right now . while we rightly condemn the violent act of Iran , so too must we condemn the violent act of Israel . from listen to the interview that he have be give , the Foreign Secretary be correct in his attempt to uphold the principle of proportionality , but if fire 100 missile in retaliation for an isolated attack on an embassy be — correctly — consider disproportionate , so too must be Israel ' s 192 - day bombardment of Gaza . we know that the agenda in Tehran be to bring about as much instability as possible . we all have a responsibility to ensure that that do not happen . there be not go to be a military solution to the conflict in the middle east . there must be a political and diplomatic solution , so what be require now be the same as what be require six month ago : we need de - escalation , and for the cause of conflict in the region to be review . the big continue cause of conflict be the siege of Gaza ; hence the need for a ceasefire . can the Prime Minister outline what he be do to ensure that the ceasefire mandate by the UN Security Council become a reality ? first , it be important not to try to draw any equivalence between Israel ' s absolute right — indeed , duty — to provide security for its citizen in the face of an appalling terrorist atrocity and what happen over the weekend . those thing be not remotely the same . more broadly , though , as I have say repeatedly from this Dispatch Box , we urge Israel to abide by international humanitarian law . we have be very clear that too many civilian have be kill , and we be deeply concerned about the impact on the civilian population in Gaza ; our diplomatic effort be gear towards alleviate that suffering . I will continue to raise those point with Prime Minister Netanyahu when I speak to he , but , as I have say , draw an equivalence between those two thing be absolutely not the right thing to do . I call the Chair of the Defence Committee . notwithstanding the sheer scale of the iranian attack , multi - layer air defence prove effective . be we ensure that we be pass any learning we have pick up on to Ukraine for the use of its own defence , and , in a more hostile and dangerous world , with the ever - increase proliferation of missile and drone technology , be we review our own air defence asset and capability to support our ally — and , indeed , close to home — if ever require ? I thank my right hon . friend for his excellent question . he be right about the importance of air defence , which be why it have repeatedly be one of the key capability that we have seek to provide to Ukraine — that be something we have lead on for some time . ditto , some of the new contract that we have place to replenish UK stockpile , most recently this year , also cover air defence missile . more broadly , my right hon . friend be right that we need to ensure our industrial production here in the UK be gear to produce the capability we need , whether for our own use or for Ukraine ' s . I be pleased to say that the Defence Secretary be work with the industry to ensure that supply chain be there to meet those need . Mr Speaker , I send you and your family our deep condolence on the loss of your father , and associate myself and my colleague with the comment of other about the appalling murder in Sydney and the death of the aid worker in Gaza . I thank the Prime Minister for his statement . the Liberal Democrats join he in condemn Iran ' s attack on Israel : this be an alarming escalation in a conflict that have already see far too many death and far too much suffering . we support the action take by the RAF to intercept iranian drone as we stand up for Israel ' s security . we also worry about what Prime Minister Netanyahu and his Government will do next . the Prime Minister have rightly say that we must prevent further escalation , so do he agree that the good way to achieve that be to press all side to agree to an immediate bilateral ceasefire in Gaza to get the hostage home , get the aid in , and put we on the path to a last peace for a two - state solution ? we have repeatedly call for an immediate humanitarian pause so that we can get the hostage out and more aid in , and use that as the foundation to build a more lasting and sustainable ceasefire , but it be worth point out — this have not be mention by colleague so far — that Hamas , yet again , have reject another offer to release hostage . it be important that we do not lose sight of that . we must have the hostage release as part of any of those conversation , and over the weekend it be Hamas who yet again reject the late round of those talk . I thank my right hon . friend for the leadership he have show on this issue , and I echo his call for the need to avoid a spiral escalation . however , we have see a military attack by Iran on a nation that its regime believe should not exist at all . Iran have directly or indirectly engineer a war in Gaza , with the aim of thwart well relation between arab state , especially Saudi Arabia , and Israel . we now have death and destruction in Gaza in a conflict that no one can win , and where the only beneficiary be Iran , its proxy and its ally . we have see an iranian journalist attack on british soil , and we have see an international vessel be pirate by the IRGC in international water — another vile example of hostage taking . so I ask my right hon . friend again : why be Iran Air still operate out of Heathrow , and why be iranian bank still operate in the City of London ? when will the snapback mechanism be invoke , and what can be do to stop the export of iranian oil to Russia and other country , which be now keep the regime afloat ? I thank my right hon . friend for his leadership on this issue over a consistent period of time , and he be right to highlight the threat that Iran pose to we . I want to reassure he that , on all of the area that he mention , active work have be undertake by the Government . as I mention in my statement , we discuss yesterday on the G7 call the need for and benefit of co - ordinating further measure , perhaps include some of the thing that he talk about , among ally in order to have maximum impact both on the regime and the ultimate designation of any future sanction . I be pleased that our new sanction regime , which we implement at the end of last year , give we extensive new power . I be keen to make sure we use they to good effect , but where we can co - ordinate those with ally , I know he would agree with I that that would be preferable , and I can reassure he that that work be happen at pace . Mr Speaker , could I too pass on my condolence for the loss of your dad , Doug ? I be one of those who on many occasion benefit from his wise advice . as the Prime Minister have say , there be no moral equivalence between the two side in this — what be happen in Gaza and what happen in the attack by Iran on Israel — but Israel have make mistake in the past and should be hold to account for they . would the Prime Minister agree with I that , as thing move on , the importance of neighbouring state — particularly , for example , Jordan — be go to be vital in resolve not just the current difficulty , but a long - term future that bring about a two - state solution ? in a word , yes . I pay tribute to the King of Jordan for the leadership role that he have play over the past several month . we be fortunate to enjoy a strong work relationship with the Jordanians , which be on display yet again over this weekend , and I commend he and his country for what they have do . Mr Speaker , please accept my condolence on the loss of your father . two week ago , I be in Israel at the northern border with Lebanon . of course , we have all see what happen this weekend , but since 7 October Iran - back Hezbollah have fire over 4 , 000 rocket into northern Israel , displace over 150 , 000 israeli civilian . I meet some of those family . they be under siege and they have be uproot , but they be brave and defiant in the face of terrorism and antisemitism . we have know for year that the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps be the world ' s chief sponsor of terrorism , fund and promote terrorist plot , radicalisation and hostage take both in the middle east and at home . we have proscribe Hamas and we have proscribe Hezbollah . Prime Minister , why do we not put the UK ' s national security first by now proscribe the irgc ? as my right hon . and learn Friend know , we do not comment on any potential proscription decision , but of course we recognise the threat from Iran and have take measure to counter it at home and around the world . I obviously refer she to my previous answer , but I be confident that the police , security service and court all have the tool they need to sanction , prosecute and mitigate the threat from Iran . we strengthen our sanction regime recently , include sanction the irgc in its entirety . despite the call for a ceasefire here in our Parliament and from across the international community , the war in Gaza have rage , cost 33 , 000 life as well as the 1 , 200 kill by the Hamas attack and a humanitarian catastrophe that be now turn into a famine . for month many have raise concern around the spectre of regional escalation ; precisely what conversation be the Prime Minister have with lead figure in the israeli Government , as well as through various party to influence the iranian regime to de - escalate as quickly as possible give the seriousness of the crisis ? both the Defence Secretary and the Foreign Secretary have speak to their counterpart over the weekend , and the Foreign Secretary have speak to the iranian Foreign Minister specifically to urge de - escalation and condemn what happen over the weekend . I will be speak to Prime Minister Netanyahu shortly , and I can reassure the hon . Lady and all member of the House that we will continue , together with our ally , to urge calm head to prevail and de - escalation . that be the right course forward , and across all level of Government that be the message we be take to everyone . there be another country that be under almost constant daily bombardment by Iranian - make drone : Ukraine . some three year ago I plead with the Israelis to help Ukraine against Russia , and they refuse even though Russia be spend half a billion dollar in the iranian drone programme . I know the Prime Minister will be speak to the Prime Minister of Israel later today ; now that RAF pilot have quite rightly go to the defence of Israel , could he perhaps ask that Israel now decide it be time to help Ukraine in its hour of need , and we can see off both Russia and iranian aggression ? I thank my right hon . friend for the role he have play in ensure the security of the UK and our ally over previous year . my statement allude to the fact that the Ukrainians be suffer from iranian drone over the same weekend that this happen . not only will I , as always , be take up his point with all our ally in urge they to do more to support Ukraine , but I know he will have welcome the recent announcement a few week ago of more support from the UK to Ukraine , specifically in the area of uncrewed platform on autonomous warfare to make sure the Ukrainians have the ability both to protect themselves and to conduct their operation . the majority of the 10 , 000 new platform we be deliver to the Ukrainians have be develop in the UK , which my right hon . friend be keen to ensure we see the benefit of here at home . I be glad that have be realise , both support Ukraine and its security and bolster the british defence industry here at home . there be rightly consensus across the House to call for restraint from the israeli Government , but we have call for restraint before : we call for restraint with regard to the attack on Gaza , yet the indiscriminate bombing take place ; we call for restraint on the settlement in the west bank , yet the settlement have expand ; we call for restraint so that food could be get to the child of Gaza , yet malnutrition be kill some of they . so what action will the Government take if Israel do not show restraint , because we be in danger of the middle east be set alight by the decision take by the right - wing faction within the Netanyahu Cabinet ? I be sorry , but I miss the part of the right hon . Gentleman ' s question where he condemn Iran and Hamas for what they have do . we will always encourage de - escalation in the region , and I be proud of the role the UK be play to bring that about . the Prime Minister be right to authorise the defence of Israel and the avoidance of violence and death , but violence have also erupt in the west bank over the last few day , as he will know . what concrete step can we take to protect those civilian ? I have personally repeatedly raise with Prime Minister Netanyahu the issue of settler violence in the west bank , as have my colleague include the deputy Foreign Secretary . we have join with ally in sanction the activity of particular individual where it have be bring to our attention and we will continue to ensure that the israeli Government do everything they can to reduce tension in the west bank . it be not conducive to long - term peace in the region , and that be why we have take action where we can , as well as be explicit with the israeli Government about our concern . Mr Speaker , I know your father well for a very long time . he be a fine man , and I be sincerely sorry for your loss . there be not one single word in the Prime Minister ' s statement of condemnation of the israeli destruction of the iranian consulate in Damascus , which be the proximate reason for the event everyone be here in concert condemn . he be not even ask to do so by the Opposition Front Bench . Kay Burley be the only person so far to demand that of a Government Minister . we have no treaty with Israel — at least not one that Parliament have be show . the Iranians be not likely to listen to the Prime Minister when Britain occupy Iran , loot its wealth and overthrow its one democratic socialist Government in my lifetime . whatever may have happen a few week ago , it be absolutely no justification for launch more than 300 drone and missile from one sovereign state towards Israel — it be as simple as that . in the hon . Gentleman ' s question , not once do he condemn that action or , indeed , the action of Hamas in the region . there be no equivalence between these thing whatever , and to suggest otherwise be simply wrong . I thank my right hon . friend for his strong support for the state of Israel . last year , as Israel and Saudi Arabia be about to strike a transformational agreement , Iran - back Hamas carry out its massacre on 7 October with the aim of torpedo the chance of peace between Israel and the arab nation . last Saturday ' s drone attack by Iran be thwart by Israel and her ally , include Jordan , demonstrate that our country can work alongside Israel after this new period of contention . do my right hon . friend agree that this represent a new opportunity for Israel and the arab nation to rebuild relation in the aftermath of 7 October and bring the hostage home ? I agree with my right hon . friend . it be significant that other regional partner help to prevent a much bad attack over the weekend . it remind we how important the attempt be to normalise relation between Israel and its neighbour . it hold out precious hope for the region . it be exactly that hope that Iran and its proxy be try to snuff out , and we should work hard to combat that . my condolence to you and your family , Mr Speaker . Prime Minister , I condemn Iran and Hamas — let I start there — but we must not lose focus on the situation in Gaza , where there be a humanitarian crisis and famine . it be just destruction that people be see in front of their eye . if we want to ensure that the hostage come home — like the hostage who have be adopt in Brent , Noa Argamani — we must argue for a ceasefire , not a pause . will the Prime Minister clearly state that we should be call for an immediate ceasefire on all side ? it be wrong to suggest in any way that we have lose sight of what be happen in Gaza . indeed , the G7 statement yesterday specifically reference our desire to co - operate to end the crisis in Gaza , to work towards an immediate humanitarian pause where hostage can be release , to get aid in , to build the condition for a sustainable ceasefire and , crucially , to deliver more humanitarian assistance into the region . it be welcome that we have see an increase in that flow over the past few day and week , but far more aid have to get in , and that be pressure that we will continue to put on all partner concern . my condolence , Mr Speaker . can I commend my right hon . friend ' s statement ? it be clear , as have be say already , that all road lead back to Tehran when it come to the terrible violence and war that take place in the middle east . every country — not just Israel , but other arab country — fear what Tehran be do in their country as well , which be something we forget . we know that Iran be commit murder at home and have execute thousand of protester while this war on Hamas have take place . with all of that know , when my right hon . friend sit down with our international colleague and look for other restriction to place on Iran , will he please consider proscribe the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps and do so in a way that make sure it can no long foment extremism here in the United Kingdom as well ? I thank my right hon . friend for his question . as I say in my statement , we be urgently work with our ally to see what step we can take together in a co - ordinate fashion to deter and condemn what Iran be do . with regard to destabilising activity here in the UK , he will know that the Charity Commission recently open an investigation into a particular organisation . we will continue to use all the power at our disposal to ensure that people be not foment hate and undermine british value here at home from abroad . I have notify the office of the hon . member for Rutland and Melton ( Alicia Kearns ) , who chair the Foreign Affairs Committee , that I would reference she in my question . it be recently reveal that she tell a private fundraising event : " the Foreign Office have receive official legal advice that Israel have break international humanitarian law , but the Government have not announce it . " I have a simple question for the Prime Minister . if he can not answer it — if he dodge and deflect — our constituent will know that he be hide the truth . be the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee tell the truth — yes or no ? I be happy to address that clearly . we have one of the most robust arm export licensing control regime in the entire world . we have previously assess that Israel be commit and capable of comply with international humanitarian law . but , as the hon . Member would expect , we regularly review our assessment . as the Foreign Secretary confirm last week , the UK position on export licence be unchanged and , follow the late assessment , be in line with our legal advice . we will keep that position under review and act in accordance with advice . I also point out to the hon . member that most like - minded country have not suspend their exist arm export licence to Israel . I , too , welcome the Prime Minister ' s leadership in this area . in addition to the thank give to the RAF , which undertake exemplary action this weekend , will he also thank those US service personnel base here in the United Kingdom , include many in my West Suffolk constituency , who be prepared to act as a moment ' s notice to defend Israel against this attack , which have be roundly condemn ? I be happy to join my right hon . friend in pay tribute not just to our colleague in America but to our partner across the region , who participate in a joint international effort . that be all in support of Israel ' s own action ; its armed force also deserve enormous praise for the success with which they repel this awful attack . Mr Speaker , may I pass my condolence to you and your family for the sad loss of your father , Doug ? we live in deeply unsettling time , and the Prime Minister , along with our ally , be right to call for a de - escalation . when he have his discussion with Prime Minister Netanyahu this afternoon , will he convey to he that now be the time to step back ? there must be no further escalation in the middle east . now be the time to recognise that both Israelis and Palestinians must live in peace , and for that we need the two - state solution . in 2014 , when we have an outbreak of violence in Gaza , the then Prime Minister David Cameron unequivocally call for a ceasefire . we must today put an end to the conflict and the killing in that region for the benefit of both these country . finally if I may say so , I welcome the Prime Minister ' s comment on the situation in Ukraine , but we be all aware of the report of a build - up of russian activity . I say to the Prime Minister that we must do more today with our ally to protect our friend , and give they the tool they need to defend themselves and to ensure that Russia be defeat . I be happy to say to the right hon . Gentleman that we remain steadfast in our support for Ukraine . we will not allow Putin to achieve his aim of eradicate freedom and democracy in that country . we have announce significant support — it be the first trip I make at the beginning of this year — and have encourage ally to do the same . we be commit to support Ukraine for as long as it take , for Ukraine not only to win the war but to emerge as a strong sovereign and free country . my thought and condolence be with your family , Mr Speaker . the United Kingdom stand for an international rule - base system , respect the sovereignty and territorial integrity of other nation . that be one of our key objective with regard to Ukraine . I condemn in the full Iran ' s attack on Israel , and I have previously condemn Iran ' s malign behaviour in the region . the question on people ' s mind be this : what information or intelligence do the Prime Minister have about what go on in Iran ' s consulate in Damascus that lead to the attack ? the international community and people around the world want to see the United Kingdom apply international law consistently across the board . whatever happen in that situation have not be confirm . regardless , there can never be any justification for a sovereign country launch over 300 drone and missile towards Israel . it be right that we take action with ally to repel that attack . I send my condolence to you , Mr Speaker , on the loss of your father , who will have be very proud of you . this be a very dangerous moment . the UN Secretary - General rightly tell the Security Council last night : " now be the time to defuse and de - escalate " . ordinary people in both Israel and Iran , and across the whole region and the wide world , will pay the price if this escalate . the Secretary - General also rightly reiterate the call for an immediate ceasefire in Gaza , as the Security Council vote for , give the huge loss of life there . this be the first opportunity that we have have to question the Prime Minister since the recent killing of british national in Gaza . be he plan to appoint an independent adviser to scrutinise the israeli inquiry into those death of british national , similar to what Australia have do ? I speak to Prime Minister Netanyahu after that incident to express our very strong concern about what happen . we be carefully review the initial finding of Israel ' s investigation into the killing of the aid worker , and welcome the suspension of two officer as a first step . the finding must be publish and follow up with an independent review to ensure the utmost transparency and accountability . I congratulate the Prime Minister on his world - lead strength defend Israel and wide peace in the middle east . Saudi Arabia — this country ' s friend — have now say in an official statement that Iran " engineer a war in Gaza " in order to destroy the progress that the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia be make in normalising relation with Israel . that very important statement from the Saudis yesterday also say that Iran be a country that sponsor terrorism and it should have be stop a long time ago . be my right hon . friend as hopeful as I be that the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and Israel — both ally of this country — will normalise their relation as soon as possible , as it look like they be on track to do before the pogrom of 7 October ? I have a very constructive meeting in Saudi Arabia with MBS at the end of last year . I know how important it be to normalise relation between Israel and its neighbour . it be clear from this weekend and the comment that my right hon . and learn Friend just make that there be momentum and a desire to see that happen . I believe that hold out precious hope for the region . I pass on my party ' s condolence to you , Mr Speaker , on the loss of your dad . the UK should neither dictate to Israel nor demand restriction on how it retaliate against the iranian regime , which have show that it be prepared to take action to back up its threat to wipe out Israel . the political and military support that we have give be very important . can the Prime Minister tell we what direct action we can take here in the United Kingdom to disrupt Iran ' s economic interest in our own country ? we have already sanction more than 400 iranian individual and , as I have say , we be discuss with our ally what more we can do . I join the Prime Minister in pay tribute to the Royal Air Force personnel who be on operation over the weekend . I also join he on the importance of de - escalating , call for maximum restraint and , on Gaza , work towards that sustainable ceasefire . a flood of aid be go into Gaza to help the humanitarian effort there . we all want to see an end to the bloodshed . I echo what the Chair of the Defence Committee , my right hon . friend the Member for Horsham ( Sir Jeremy Quin ) , say — what we see over the weekend show the importance of invest in air defence system to defend civilian from hostile regime . my hon . friend be absolutely right . whether it be with Ukraine , where we have provide amraam and starstreak missile , or here at home , where we place new contract at the beginning of this year to improve our air defence capability , it be a key capability that we need to invest in , and ideally we need to produce more of it here at home . twelve - year - old Zain Arouq miraculously survive Israel ' s bombing that kill most of his family in Gaza three month ago , but he be kill this weekend by an aid airdrop when he be search for scrap of food because the parachute do not open . Zain and thousand of other would still be alive have ally like the UK and the US push Israel to adhere to the UN resolution on a ceasefire in Gaza , which would allow aid to reach starve child safely . will the Prime Minister set out exactly what repercussion Israel will face for fail to abide by the UN Security Council motion ? I have be very clear that too many civilian have already lose their life in Gaza . the UN Security Council resolution also call for the unconditional release of the hostage , which , as the hon . Gentleman will know , Hamas reject at the weekend . it be important that we focus on that , at the same time as get more aid in . there be one thing right now that would do more than anything to help end the conflict in Gaza : the release of all the israeli hostage be hold by Hamas . do my right hon . friend agree that no matter how well intentione and no matter how much we all want the conflict to end as soon as possible , simply call for an unconditional immediate ceasefire reduce the incentive on Hamas to do the hostage deal ? so long as they feel that they be win diplomatically , it reduce pressure on they to do the right thing . I agree with my right hon . friend , and I have make the same argument from the Dispatch Box previously . it be absolutely crucial that , as part of the immediate humanitarian pause that we be call for , not only can we get considerably more aid into Gaza to alleviate the suffering that people be experience , but we must be able to release the hostage . that be what we be focus on do . while globally the attention be rightly focus on Israel and Iran , and we be all in agreement that the next step have to be de - escalation , the situation in Gaza be worsen every day . More than 33 , 000 life have be lose and more than 1 million will now be face imminent famine . the UK almost stand alone in not restore funding to the United Nations Relief and Works Agency . will the Prime Minister tell we when he will set out a clear path for funding to resume ? together with our ally , we be review the interim finding and be discuss appropriate next step . many partner country have suspend funding to UNRWA after what happen , which be shocking . in the meantime , we be considerably increase our own aid into the region and welcome the commitment from Israel recently to increase the flow , open new checkpoint at the port of Ashdod , the Jordan land corridor and Kerem Shalom , but we now want to see those commitment follow through . we all want to see more aid get in and that will be a focus of our conversation with Israel . Mr Speaker , on behalf of myself and your neighbour in Bolton North East , I be very sorry for the loss of your father . some 90 % of iranian oil export go to China . China be increase in importance in the region . it already trade four time more than the United States with the Gulf Cooperation Council country , along with Iran . what discussion do the Prime Minister plan on have with his counterpart , Xi Jinping , and with Foreign Minister Wang Yi on resolve an escalation in the conflict in Iran ? the Foreign Secretary recently speak to his counterpart on exactly that topic . more broadly , we be discuss with our G7 partner and ally what further measure we can take to deal with the threat , economically , that Iran pose . much have be say by the Prime Minister and other conservative Members about the normalisation process between Saudi Arabia and Israel . on 9 January , the saudi ambassador to the United Kingdom tell Radio 4 that that normalisation process be subject to a two - state solution and a fully recognise Palestine . have put that on the record , I remind the Prime Minister that support for any nation be not like the unconditional support that he have for his football team . when Iran act like a rogue state in Syria , we rightly call it out and , when Israel taunt Iran by bomb its consulate building , know full well that Iran will respond and risk further escalation , we must call it out as well . what be the Prime Minister do in his effort to ensure that the two - state solution and the recognition of Palestine be be actively pursue ? I refer the hon . Lady to my statement , in which I be clear about my commitment to a two - state solution and our diplomatic effort to help to bring that about . my right hon . friend have make it clear that it be right and lawful to defend yourself and right and lawful for your ally to help to defend you , but do he agree that it be also important to point out that self - defence can be both effective and restrained , and furthermore that self - defence can be more effective in the long run when it be restrain , because it help to retain the broad coalition of those who support your position and because it enable you to retain the moral authority to act robustly against other when you need to do so ? my right hon . and learn Friend have put it well . ultimately , Israel do have a right to self - defence , as any state do . however , it have successfully repel the iranian attack and Iran be even more isolated on the world stage , which be why , as the Foreign Secretary say , we would urge it to take the win and avoid further escalation at this moment . the Prime Minister be right to say that we and our ally need to be very clear - sight about the activity of Iran and Russia . however , when we consider that british business such as Avon be still do business in Russia , claim that that be because it be vital and urgent ; when we consider that a massive shadow fleet of tanker be evade russian oil sanction ; when we consider that many country such as Kazakhstan be import so that they can then export those good to Russia , again to avoid sanction ; and when we consider that not a penny from the sale of Abramovich ' s Chelsea have yet go to Ukraine and we have still not seize any of the multibillion pound of russian state asset sit in british bank , should we not also consider whether we could go far ? we and our G7 partner have repeatedly underscore the fact that Russia ' s obligation under international law be clear and it must pay for the damage that it have cause to Ukraine . I believe that we should be bold and pursue all route through which immobilise russian sovereign asset can be use to support Ukraine , in line , of course , with international law , and I have discuss that repeatedly with my G7 partner . we have task Finance Ministers to that end , they be report back ahead of the G7 summit in June , and I hope that we can make further progress . may I add my voice to those of member on both side of the House who have call for the proscription of the irgc as a terrorist organisation ? its tentacle be wherever trouble be to be find across the middle east , and this be the late demonstration of its malign influence . give that the threat of war be grow in a way that I think bear a grave risk to we here at home , do my right hon . friend accept that we need to set out a timetable to fulfil our commitment to raise the proportion of gdp that we spend on defence to 2 . 5 % as quickly as possible , but we also need specificity on how we will do so ? I be pleased to say that , just a couple of year ago , in anticipation of the rise in the threat environment , we increase defence spending by the large amount since the end of the cold war , and we subsequently increase it by more than £ 11 billion specifically to deal with inflation , strengthen our nuclear enterprise and rebuild our stockpile . however , I can reassure the House and my right hon . friend that we will always continue to invest in our armed force to keep this country safe . I hold no candle for the iranian regime . in fact , I recently co - author a report on its disgraceful oppression of woman and girl , which we conclude amount to gender apartheid . however , just as Iran must be hold to the standard of international law , so must Israel . the Prime Minister have pay tribute to the three brave british aid worker who be kill by the Israel Defence Forces . will he condemn Israel for their wrongful killing , and will he also condemn it for the ongoing slaughter of innocent life in Gaza ? I refer the hon . and learn Lady to my previous answer to both those question . iranian drone have not only be fire towards Israel and Ukraine ; there be also biweekly shipment of iranian drone arrive in Port Sudan for use in the war in Sudan , which , as of today , have now rage for a full year . I be glad that the Prime Minister have make a statement today and will act for we on financial sanction and other measure , but give that iranian weapon be now be use in war in the middle east , Europe and Africa , do he agree that partner not only in the west but in the global south should be deeply worried about how far the tentacle of terror from Tehran be now reach ? I agree with my right hon . friend , which be why yesterday I discuss with G7 leader the co - ordinate effort among ally to take further measure to stem the flow of Iran ' s malign influence across the world . hopefully , we can co - ordinate that action to tackle the precise thing that she have just mention . I deplore the attack by the IDF on the consulate in Syria , and I totally deplore the massive attack by Iran , which launch 301 drone and missile towards Israel . Iran know full well that this attack would detract from the great work that we need to do in Gaza to support people who be starve and young child who be suffer from malnutrition . will the Prime Minister commit to oppose escalation in the region by any of the country involve ? as he say in his statement , we need to concentrate on support young people and those who be die in Gaza . as I say very clearly , we have urge de - escalation and calm head to prevail , and we continue to do everything we can to get more aid into Gaza . on air defence , I wholly commend our RAF pilot and their superb Typhoon aircraft , but we have only 137 Typhoons . because of budget pressure , the MOD plan to retire 30 of they next year and sell they off , which would now be akin to sell Spitfires before the battle of Britain . when the Prime Minister have a moment , will he go back to his office , place that ridiculous decision under immediate review and , at the very least , put those Typhoons in a war reserve , in case one day we need they for ourselves ? I thank my right hon . friend for his question . he will know that individual equipment and capability decision will be make by a service chief , in conjunction with Ministers . I be happy to look at the point he raise , but we be increase our purchase of F - 35 aircraft and collaborate with Japan and Italy on build the next generation of fighter aircraft — something in which we be lead the world . it will be fantastic for british job here at home . I hope that , as the Prime Minister say , we can find a diplomatic solution , but we should plan for the bad . I note that the Prime Minister say in his statement : " the threat to stability be grow — not just in the middle east , but everywhere . " I may add that our armed force be run very hot at the moment . why do the Prime Minister not come here today to announce a significant uplift in defence spending to match the real and potential threat that we be now face as a country ? be that not go to add to the insecurity for our country ? I refer the hon . gentleman to my previous answer about the exist increase in our defence budget — not just over the last few year , but especially this year — in recognition of the increase threat . I point out to he that we have remain the second large defence spender in NATO over the past 10 year , behind only the US . I welcome the action take by the Prime Minister and the armed service over the weekend . I regret to say that some of my constituent feel that UK support for Israel have weaken in recent week . in the light of the horrific aggression from Iran , will the Prime Minister take the opportunity to confirm that there be no backsliding and that the UK stand shoulder to shoulder with Israel as it exercise its right to defend itself from a genocidal attack ? as I make crystal clear in my statement , we must ensure Israel ' s security . it be a non - negotiable and fundamental condition for peace in the region . in the face of threat like we see this weekend , Israel will always have our full support . like the whole House , I condemn the attack on Israel by the tyrannical iranian regime , just as I deeply condemn the atrocity of Hamas , but I be also incredibly concerned that our Prime Minister have now pitch the UK into a perilous war — and in support of an israeli Government preside over by Netanyahu , a man who choose to bomb an iranian embassy because he be dependent on his hard - right provocateur . that be itself a dangerous escalation by Israel and a further breach of international law , so if the Prime Minister ' s priority be indeed international law and de - escalation , why be he not call now for an urgent bilateral ceasefire to get the hostage home and to get the region on the path to peace ? we have call for an immediate humanitarian pause to get the hostage out and aid in , and we will continue to do so . I be completely comfortable that what we do over the weekend be the right thing , act together with ally to make sure that we could act in defence of Israel in the face of an unprecedented attack on its territory and people . I congratulate my right hon . friend the Prime Minister on his holistic view of the situation in Israel , Gaza and , of course , Iran . may I say how glad I be that he have categorically say that we will carry on supply the arm that Israel need to defend itself , which have be prove to be so vital just this weekend ? do he agree that , in order to try to achieve a sustainable ceasefire , the middle east have to confront the threat that Iran make ? its direct influence in Yemen be have an impact on ship through the Red sea . it be have an impact on the war in Sudan . it be have an impact in the war in Gaza , and there be the effect on Israel and surround country such as Lebanon . so I ask my right hon . friend to do everything that he can to make sure that the whole of the region recognise that Iran play a large part in all the suffering that we be see in the area . my right hon . friend be right to point out Iran ' s support for the Houthi militia , who have carry out a series of dangerous and destabilising attack against shipping in the Red sea . that be why the UK , together with our ally , stand up to take action against that and be currently engage in the multinational Operation Prosperity Guardian to far deter Houthi and iranian aggression . I welcome the support of the Prime Minister and the Government for the resolution on Gaza adopt recently by the United Nations Security Council . Israel be currently in breach of that resolution . how do that affect the Prime Minister ' s view of the current action of Israel in the middle east ? that resolution also call for the release of the hostage , which Hamas reject just this weekend . far to the point make by my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Fareham ( Suella Braverman ) and my right hon . friend the Member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) , Iran ' s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps not only be the principal sponsor of terrorism in the middle east , but be active on the street of the United Kingdom . indeed , the iranian journalist , Pouria Zeraati , who be almost fatally stab last month , be under threat from the irgc . it be actually the case that IRGC official can be see dine out in restaurant in west London quite regularly . while I fully understand that my right hon . friend will not flag up any such action in advance , can he confirm that he will take into account what I believe to be the overwhelming feeling in this House , which be that the irgc should be proscribe as a terrorist organisation ? I refer my right hon . friend to my previous answer , and also remind he that the National Security Act 2023 create new offence that give we the power to arrest and detain people suspect of involvement in state threat on our soil . I share the hope for calm and de - escalation . the UN Secretary - General have say that , without it , the middle east face " a real danger of a devastating full - scale conflict " . can the Prime Minister tell we what the parameter be of UK military involvement in the region , and confirm that it will remain defensive ? I be not go to speculate on hypothetical . as I say , we have send additional jet and air refuelling tanker to bolster our exist operation in the region . we will obviously keep next step under review . Iran have smuggle arm into the middle east , include the west bank . it have equip , fund and train Hezbollah , Hamas and the Houthis , as well as threaten British - Iranians on british soil — and that do not even include what Iran have do to its own people , not least gas iranian schoolgirl . I thank the Prime Minister for the strong action over the weekend . do he agree that we must now consider proscribe the irgc as a terrorist organisation ? my hon . friend be right to highlight Iran ' s influence , include its missile shipment on the surround sea , and I be pleased that the United Kingdom be play its part in do something about that . HMS Diamond be bolster our maritime presence in the region as we speak , and the UK have previously interdict the supply of iranian missile be smuggle to the Houthis and other , both last year and the year before . we will continue to be vigilant in the area . I hope the Prime Minister have hear the very strong and broad consensus in this House on the need for stability and de - escalation . when he speak to Prime Minister Netanyahu , will he make it clear to he that if Israel be now to proceed with its much - anticipate attack on Rafah , it would be not only a humanitarian catastrophe for the 1 . 5 million Palestinians who be shelter there and make the release of the hostage more difficult , but make that stability and de - escalation more difficult to achieve and , as a consequence , would not have the support of this government ? we have repeatedly raise humanitarian concern with the israeli Government . just the other week , the Foreign Secretary set out our view on the situation in Rafah . it have be two week since the Iran International journalist be attack on the street of our capital . the journalist and family of those work for BBC Persian live under constant threat . the organisation responsible for those act be the irgc , work for the iranian regime , so will my right hon . friend therefore look to see what further measure can be take , include outlaw the irgc ? I be happy to reassure my right hon . friend that , as we speak , we be in active dialogue with our international partner , follow yesterday ' s G7 call , to co - ordinate further diplomatic measure to contain the threat from Iran . the core issue now must be de - escalation , an immediate ceasefire on all side to end the devastating situation in Gaza , and a political solution for the long term . UNRWA be arguably the single big multilateral tool to support a political solution , and it be unmatched in its administrative ability to deliver aid . the UK stand behind other country in not renew funding to UNRWA . far to the question of my hon . friend the Member for Battersea ( Marsha De Cordova ) , will the Prime Minister set out a clear path for funding to resume ? I refer the hon . Lady to my previous answer . I do not think it be right to say that we be behind other country . we be in active dialogue with other country on the approach to UNRWA . we recognise the operational and logistical role it play on the ground while recognise the very shocking concern that we all have about what happen previously . it be right that we take the time to get our future approach to UNRWA right . I welcome the Prime Minister ' s focus on call for restraint and de - escalation , which I imagine will be on his agenda when he speak to the israeli Prime Minister this afternoon . I also welcome his highlighting of the great threat to this country . recognise all he have say today about the future defence budget , could he undertake an immediate review of the resource and resilience of the british armed force in the immediate term ? I be happy to tell my right hon . friend that we keep these thing under constant review to make sure that we have the capability we need to protect our country and to stand up for our value and interest around the world . the conflict in Ukraine have show how technology be change warfare , which be why we our increase focus on autonomous vehicle and build our UK industrial supply chain be so welcome . we need to focus on these thing , and I be delighted that the Defence Secretary have prioritise those area . be there not a danger that a further military attack on Iran would serve to entrench the despotic regime in Tehran and strengthen its ability to oppress its own people — iranian woman , the kurdish community , the Baha ' be and many other ? Iran ' s treatment of its own citizen be appal , and we have repeatedly condemn it and call Iran out for that . last week , I meet student at Woodbrook Vale School and De Lisle College in Loughborough . their question on this topic be even more important now than it be when they put it to I : what more can the UK do to help bring peace to the region ? I point my hon . friend to the statement . first and foremost , we have to be resolute in protect regional security and stand up for Israel when situation such as this happen . secondly , we have to be commit to a two - state solution , and we be do everything we can to bring that about — the regional co - operation over the weekend demonstrate that there be much to be hopeful for . thirdly , we must see an immediate humanitarian pause in Gaza , so that we can get the hostage out and aid in . that be the british approach . it be the right approach and we will work very hard to bring it about . the polish Prime Minister , Donald Tusk , have warn that Europe be in a " pre - war era " because of the situation in Russia . our Prime Minister rightly say that these be not mutually exclusive conflict but interlink . therefore , it be important that we co - ordinate , just as we have see co - ordination at the United Nations . he will be aware of the real concern that the UN ' s sanction regime on both Iran and Russia be be undermine . the UN have combine to support and call for a ceasefire . what more be the Prime Minister do to make sure that the UN work for sanction on both Russia and Iran ? do he recognise that wait until June for the G7 to act may be too long when every day count in stop further military action ? what I be talk about on the G7 be with regard to russian asset , but obviously the G7 have an outsize economic role to play and so it be important that there be G7 co - ordination first and foremost . last year , we fund the economic deterrence regime which we have specifically to target sanction evasion . the hon . Lady be right to say that that be a grow issue , and I can reassure she that , together with our ally , we be tackle it . notwithstanding the drone and missile launch by Iran , which be rightly take out by UK plane and our ally , the Iranians prefer to operate in the shadow , through proxy and through an increasingly sophisticated cyber operation . do the Prime Minister agree that our priority should be work with international ally to go after Iran ' s promotion of illicit finance and weapon smuggling , as well as work with our international partner to combat Iran ' s cyber operation ? my hon . friend be absolutely right on that and I can reassure he that we be work closely with international partner , not least on cyber , but also on weapon smuggling . as I say , I be pleased that the Royal Navy be play a significant role in combat that , with interdiction of illegal arm shipment both last year and the year before , and by contribute as we speak to Operation Prosperity Guardian . I would just point out to the Prime Minister that a nation state ' s capacity to observe international humanitarian law be quite different from its actually do so . at this terrifying moment for the world , we be all mightily relieved that Iran , which must be condemn for what it do , fail to inflict serious loss of life on people in the region . the de - escalation call be correct , as be the commitment not to engage in offensive action . he be explicit in his statement that all people be entitle to security and peace , but sadly for the people of Gaza the call for restraint have not work . what additional option be he consider ? surely an immediate ceasefire and the funding of UNRWA be the good way to secure security for the region and the release of all the hostage . it be important that the hostage be release , and that be what we continue to call for . as the hon . Gentleman know , it be Hamas , yet again this weekend , who reject the late round of negotiation to get those hostage back to safety . rise — Order . I be anxious to get everybody in , so I plead for brevity in the question . I place on the record my condolence to the Speaker and his family . I commend the Prime Minister for his statement and the leadership he have show . give this despicable attack on the civilian population of Israel by Iran , do he agree with I that the world can not risk a nuclear - armed Iran ? will he commit to support whatever it take , include not take military action off the table , to ensure that that nightmare never happen ? as I have say , there be no credible civilian justification for the enrichment level we have see and that the International Atomic Energy Agency have report in Iran . we be commit to use all diplomatic tool to ensure that Iran do not develop a nuclear weapon , include use the snapback mechanism if necessary . I oppose all act of violence . I welcome the Prime Minister ' s call for de - escalation and restraint , but I can not be the only person who wonder where those call for de - escalation and restraint be six month ago . give those call , do the Prime Minister share my concern that the political fortune of Prime Minister Netanyahu , in whose hand such a choice rest , be so heavily invest in the continuation of the conflict ? we have continue to call on the israeli Government to do everything they can to protect civilian life , as they exercise their right and duty to ensure security for citizen . I will continue to raise those point with Prime Minister Netanyahu . over the weekend Iran effectively declare war on our friend and ally , Israel . when the Prime Minister talk to Prime Minister Netanyahu , he will have to be very careful about how he persuade he to exercise self - restraint . there have to be a menu of option for what the British Government and the british people will do in assist Israel and resist Iran . the fundamental that be require be the proscription of the irgc , the removal of the embassy here and the return of all those official to Iran , the return of our official to the United Kingdom , and the harsh possible sanction against the regime in Iran . we have already sanction over 400 different iranian individual and entity , include the irgc in its entirety . we continue to discuss with international partner how good we can co - ordinate future action . everyone in this House be unite in want to see the fighting in Gaza come to an end as soon as possible , with a sustainable ceasefire in place . as the Prime Minister rightly state , it be once again Hamas who reject a US - broker deal that would see the fighting stop , the release of hostage and allow far more aid into Gaza . what pressure be the Government apply to our ally in the region who provide support to Hamas , to urge they to do all they can to make Hamas accept a deal ? I thank the hon . Lady for her question and agree with she . we be do everything we can talk to ally in the region to put pressure on Hamas to accept a deal and get the hostage release . that be the good and most important way we can move towards the sustainable ceasefire that we all want to see . I thank the Prime Minister for his statement and the clear leadership he be provide on this important matter . as a beacon of liberal democracy in the region , Israel ' s security be our security . it be clear that serious loss of life be avoid at the weekend only because of the effectiveness of israeli defence mechanism , support by the UK and other . do the Prime Minister share my concern that those call for an arm embargo against Israel be not only misguided , but risk weaken Israel ' s ability to defend itself and encourage those who wish Israel harm ? as I have say , we stand by Israel ' s right to defend itself . it be important that it continue to abide by international humanitarian law — that will always be important to we . we continue to keep all arm export under review . we have one of the strict regime anywhere in the world . the event of the weekend mark a dangerous new chapter in a long history of conflict in the middle east . do the Prime Minister accept that proportionality be key and must include the conduct of all party , include the 192 day of uninterrupted and constant bombardment of Gaza in response to what be , of course , a horrific attack by Hamas ? that have kill over 33 , 000 civilian in Gaza , a place where child look to the sky not know if aid or bomb be go to fall on they . I ask the Prime Minister : be that proportionate ? we continue to support Israel ' s right to defend itself and ensure security for its citizen . it must do that in accordance with international humanitarian law ; we will continue to make that point to the Israelis . I join other in thank the Prime Minister for his leadership in ensure that the United Kingdom Government stand shoulder to shoulder with our ally , Israel , in the face of yet another attack . do he agree that , in order to live in safety and security , the first and most pressing mission for Israel continue to be the necessity of defeat Hamas ? the harsh reality be that that will require an operation in Rafah , in which every step be take to protect civilian life . do my right hon . friend agree that that be the path to peace in the middle east ? my hon . friend be right to highlight the threat that Hamas pose to the security and safety of the people of Israel . the Foreign Secretary set out in detail our view on the right approach to Rafah from this point forward just a couple of week ago . the Prime Minister rightly call for restraint and de - escalation in the middle east , but be there not more chance that his word will carry weight if a ceasefire be advocate for all side , include the war party in Gaza ? we have call for an immediate humanitarian pause in Gaza , so that hostage can be release and aid can go in , and for that to form the basis of a more lasting and sustainable ceasefire . I thank the Prime Minister for his strong international leadership in this area , and for his call for restraint . he will agree that Iran be the dangerous and destabilising player in this region , whether by itself directly or through its proxy . it be also a despotic , medieval regime . there be 853 execution last year — an eight - year high — include 22 woman . as the Prime Minister work urgently with the G7 , please will he confirm that no reasonable option should be off the table , include the proscription of the IRGC ? Iran ' s human right record remain completely unacceptable . we have sanction almost 100 entity and individual specifically for human right violation . for example , we have condemn Iran ' s surge use of the death penalty , and at the 78th UN General Assembly , we co - sponsor the Iran human right resolution call for Iran to issue a moratorium on execution . rise — I say once again that I be anxious to get everyone in , but I can only do that if the question be brief . thirty - three thousand people have die in Gaza . More bomb have be drop there than be drop in the whole of the Iraq war . this weekend ' s horrific event show the danger of a war escalate across the whole region . do the Prime Minister recognise that the kernel of the whole issue across the region be the continued israeli occupation of Palestine ? what do he say about bring an end to that occupation , and call for a permanent ceasefire ? of course we want to see , and remain committed to , a two - state solution , and we be work hard to bring that about , but the big cause of regional instability be the pernicious influence of Iran , and nobody else . do the Prime Minister agree that even those who want to link the conflict between Israel and Hamas with the conduct of this attack have to recognise that , since its inception decade ago , the Islamic Republic of Iran have seek the destruction not only of our way of life , but of Israel and its people , and we should never hesitate to play our part in prevent that ? my hon . friend be absolutely right , and I agree with he wholeheartedly . I echo the call for restraint and de - escalation . I be interested in what the Prime Minister say about the diplomatic effort over the past six month , with the Palestinian Authority look towards a two - state solution . give that the issue be settlement , water and access between Gaza and the west bank and Jerusalem , what window of opportunity do he think there be with the Netanyahu Government to get all party round the table ? that be something that we continually push for . in the meantime , we also focus on build up the technical and administrative capability of the Palestinian Authority , so that they be in a position to provide effective and strong governance for the west bank and Gaza when the moment that that be possible arrive , and we be work very hard to bring that about . yesterday , the United Nations Secretary - General say : " the Middle East be on the brink . the people of the region be confront a real danger of a devastating full - scale conflict . now be the time to defuse and de - escalate " . do the Prime Minister agree with the Secretary - General , and if so , what be the Government ' s strategy to achieve this , as the Prime Minister work with our international ally ? of course we want to avoid further escalation and bloodshed , which would be deeply destabilising for the region and risk more life . that be a message that all Government Ministers will be take to their counterpart across the region . Iran seek to justify its unjustifiable attack on Israel on the basis that it be retaliate for Israel ' s attack on its consulate . I welcome the fact that the Prime Minister say that in his telephone conversation with Prime Minister Netanyahu later today , he will urge de - escalation . in that telephone conversation , will he set out the measure that the UK will take if , in fact , Israel seek to retaliate far ? I be not go to comment on hypothetical , but of course we will calm head to prevail everywhere across the region . Diolch yn fawr , Madam Deputy Speaker . at the Security Council last night , the UN Secretary - General warn of " devastating full - scale conflict " and call for de - escalation and maximum restraint . today , the Foreign Secretary say in response that there could have be " thousand of casualty " and pressure for an escalation of this conflict . do the Prime Minister agree with that , and do he also agree that the very real ten of thousand of death and casualty that Israel ' s military attack and impose famine condition have cause in Gaza be driver of regional instability ? we want to avoid further escalation and bloodshed , which would be deeply destabilising for the region and would risk more life . that be why we be call on all regional partner to focus on be calm and de - escalate the situation . my constituent Sama have be try to get her mother , father and brother out of Gaza since this conflict begin . they have be displace multiple time , and they be now in a tent in Rafah . they can not apply to come to the UK for safety , as there be no scheme . this be in the UK Government ' s hand , and they could waive the need for biometric , if they so decide . will the Prime Minister do that and let Sama ' s family come to safety ? obviously , I be not aware of the specific of the hon . Lady ' s case , but I be sure that if she write to the Home Office , it will be happy to look into it for she . four former UK Supreme Court judge and more than 600 lawyer , include over 60 kc , have warn the Prime Minister that the UK risk break international law relate to a plausible risk of genocide in Gaza if it do not stop its weapon export to Israel . the Prime Minister be ignore their warning and hide his government ' s legal advice on this matter . why , Prime Minister ? no , that be not right . we have a very robust and rigorous export licensing regime . the Foreign Secretary confirm last week that the UK ' s position on export licence be unchanged follow the late assessment , and be in line with the legal advice . we keep that position under review , and always act in accordance with that advice . the middle east have enter a very dangerous new phase that can be resolve only by diplomatic and political solution . can I push the Prime Minister on what he say early about the sanction that he be consider take , with international ally , against Iran , include the proscribing of the irgc ? will he also confirm that the UK will not take part in any offensive action of Israel ' s ? we act in a defensive capacity , and we be discuss with G7 ally further diplomatic measure that can be take in a co - ordinate fashion . I fully condemn Iran ' s attack on Israel , and the nature of the iranian regime . the Prime Minister say that he want to see stability in the region , but surely there must be honesty and transparency about the fact that Israel itself be a threat to stability , and have already systematically break international humanitarian law . the Government have no reluctance to rightly challenge Russia over Ukraine in that regard ; why the reluctance in relation to Israel — and indeed the reluctance to publish the associated legal advice ? as I say , I do not think there be any equivalence between what Vladimir Putin be do in Ukraine and what Israel be do to ensure the security of its citizen in the face of an appalling terrorist attack . it have be over 15 month since it be report that proscription of the irgc be imminent . since then , Iran have continue to fund and supply Hamas , Hezbollah and the Houthis . follow this continue funding for terror and destabilisation , what more do Iran have to do before the irgc be proscribe ? as I have say , the police , security service and court all have the tool that they need to sanction , prosecute and mitigate the threat from Iran . we strengthen our Iran sanction regime recently , and the irgc be sanction in its entirety . the Prime Minister say in his statement that it be important that aid get into Gaza , and he say a few moment ago that the Government be right to take their time in decide on the restoration of funding to UNRWA . the organisational infrastructure of UNRWA be unparalleled and can not be replicate . a further delay on the part of the UK Government will cost further life , in a context in which famine be take hold . I urge the Prime Minister to think again and to today set out a path for the restoration of funding to UNRWA . I know that the whole House will have rightly be appal by the allegation that UNRWA staff be involve in 7 October . we want UNRWA to give detailed undertaking about change in personnel policy and procedure to ensure that nothing like that can ever happen again . we be actively work with ally to try to bring the situation to a rapid conclusion . we be expect final report from the UN and other on what happen by the end of April , and we intend to clarify the UK ' s position on funding once we have review those final report . Israel have indicate that it intend to respond to Iran ' s attack , against the advice of the international community , include the UN and the United States . such a retaliation could tip the region into a catastrophic all - out war , so in term of leverage to persuade Prime Minister Netanyahu against further retaliation , will the right hon . Gentleman say that , should Israel choose to escalate , there will be no further UK military support for its endeavour in this conflict ? I be sure that the hon . Gentleman mean also to condemn Iran for what happen over the weekend . we will continue to urge de - escalation and for calm head to prevail on all side . Iran be of course no ally of the UK , and its huge unprecedented assault on Israel must be call out , but the UK Government must now work hard to prevent further escalation of the crisis in an already volatile region . it be a matter of principle that diplomatic premise be not target , so will the Prime Minister confirm what conversation he have have with israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu about the attack on the iranian consulate in Syria , or whether he plan to discuss that with he ? as I say , we will continue to urge de - escalation and for calm head to prevail on all side . as the Foreign Secretary say this morning , we urge Israel in particular to recognise that it have successfully repel the iranian attack , and that Iran be ever more isolated on the world stage . Jacqui , the mother of murder aid worker James Kirby , be my constituent . I be sure that she will agree with the Prime Minister ' s description of her son as a hero . there be a real danger — I be already see this , as event move on — that his death will end up be chalk up as collateral damage in this conflict . will the Prime Minister show that he understand the family ' s need to see justice do , and will he keep up the pressure on Israel about the review ? the family want to know why James be kill , and that someone will be hold responsible . my condolence to Jacqui and the family of all those who be tragically kill as they deliver aid . as I say , they be hero and they absolutely deserve our admiration . our thought will be with all their family . I refer the hon . Lady to my previous answer about what we have ask of the Israelis . what be crystal clear be that there need to be a considerable improvement in the deconfliction mechanism between Israel and aid agency . I have already make that point to Prime Minister Netanyahu , and we expect to see that follow through . I join my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) in unequivocally condemn the action of the iranian regime on Saturday , and in support the action of our RAF . like many other , my Edinburgh West constituent be concerned that attention will now be take away from the plight of the Palestinians in Gaza . can the Prime Minister assure we that when he speak to the Prime Minister of Israel later today , he will impress upon he not only the need for restraint to restabilise the region , but the unique opportunity he have now to take step towards peace by promote a ceasefire and allow aid into Gaza ? our position remain unchanged : we continue to want to see an immediate humanitarian pause so that hostage be release and aid go in , and we want Israel to immediately deliver on its commitment to significantly increase the amount of aid get into Gaza through the various measure it have set out . the question from the right hon . member for North Somerset ( Sir Liam Fox ) expose that there be much more we could be do to undermine the murderous iranian regime . simultaneously , the way that Israel continue to ignore the United Nations resolution be deeply troubling . be the Prime Minister worry that his approach at the moment risk fail , both on Iran and on Israel ? no ; as we have demonstrate this weekend , the UK be lead with ally , defend our value and our interest , and stand together with our friend to bring about regional security . that be good for people in the region , and it be good for people here at home , too . Iran ' s reckless action only add more fuel to an already rage fire , so will the Prime Minister proscribe the IRGC , and what assessment have he make of whether bomb a consulate violate international law ? what be we do to uphold that principle in a war that have go on for six month and cost so many life ? I refer the hon . Lady to any of my previous answer on both those topic . in response to my hon . friend the Member for Feltham and Heston ( Seema Malhotra ) , the Prime Minister say that he would take the time to set the right future approach to UNRWA . as the famine continue , I wonder how much time the Prime Minister need before he make up his mind to restore funding and get aid to the people who need it . what the hon . Lady fail to mention be the shocking allegation of people involve in UNRWA also be involve in the massacre on 7 October . it be right that those allegation be properly investigate and new procedure be put in place to ensure that that could never happen again . the final report , which have be commission , be due at the end of April . we be already in dialogue with our partner ; once we review those report , we will set out our future approach , but that be not to say that we be not already do an enormous amount to bring more aid into the region . we have triple our commitment , and right now be deliver aid by land , sea and air . we be take a lead role , and everyone in this House should be incredibly proud of what the UK be bring to the table . the action of the Royal Air Force in shoot down iranian drone and cruise missile head to , and over , Israel over the weekend raise a very serious question . since the UK be clearly capable of act to prevent air strike in the region , and both the International Court of Justice and the UN special rapporteur on the Occupied Palestinian Territories have implicate Israel in a genocide in Gaza , why be the Government not interested in fulfil their obligation under international law by protect palestinian woman and child from israeli airstrike ? why be the Government not act to prevent the killing of Palestinians ? I disagree with the hon . Lady . while , of course , we respect the role and the independence of the ICJ , our view be that Israel ' s action in Gaza can simply not be describe as a genocide , and that case be not helpful at all in achieve our goal of a sustainable and lasting ceasefire . the threat of imminent famine hang over the people of Gaza ; aid urgently need to get into the country and to be safely distribute . with the death of those three UK charity worker , work for World Central Kitchen , will the Prime Minister confirm whether he have receive a write apology from the Prime Minister of Israel ? I speak explicitly to the Prime Minister of Israel , who do that when I speak to he the very next day . we have make absolutely crystal clear our concern about what have happen , and as I have previously point out , we be now look through the preliminary finding . we be pleased to see the early suspension of two officer involve ; now what we need be reform of Israel ' s deconfliction mechanism to ensure the future safety of aid worker . in speak to the Prime Minister of Israel this evening and call for restraint , will the Prime Minister put that into action ? should the Prime Minister of Israel say that he will far assault Gaza or impede aid , will the Prime Minister action that restraint and call for an immediate ceasefire ? we have already call for an immediate humanitarian pause so that more aid can get in and hostage can be release . as I say , we have triple our aid commitment , and be bring aid in by air , land and sea , together with our ally . over 33 , 000 Palestinians have be kill in Gaza , include 14 , 000 child . some 76 , 000 civilian have be injure or maim and 700 healthcare and aid worker have be kill . there be an ongoing famine , and the UK Government under the Prime Minister ' s watch be now try to find way around the israeli blockade that be prevent aid from get in ; be that not in itself an admission that the ongoing israeli action be disproportionate , and should we not be call they out as such ? we have be consistently clear that we be concerned about the humanitarian situation in Gaza . we have call on the Israelis to open up more aid corridor and have they open more often ; they set out a series of step just recently , and now we want to see they deliver on those . the middle east be in a crisis , and I and thousand of my Riverside constituent have be call for a ceasefire to end the destruction in Gaza and prevent a widen conflict in the middle east . the Prime Minister have talk about diplomatic action towards a two - state solution . can he say what action he be take against the far - right Ministers in the israeli Government who be oppose to a two - state solution ? we have be very clear that our view be that we should have a two - state solution , and we be make sure we do everything we can to contribute to that aim . on the wide humanitarian crisis in Gaza , there be now a famine across the area . in response to a question from my hon . friend the Member for Battersea ( Marsha De Cordova ) , I think the Prime Minister say that he have receive the interim report on UNRWA and that in due course he will receive the final report . will he publish the interim report , and if not , why not ? with Canada , France , Finland , Australia , Sweden and the EU have now restore funding , why do the UK stand alone ? when it come to UNRWA , it be the UN that be publish the expect final report towards the end of April . after receive they , we will clarify and set out the UK ' s position on future funding . first , I thank the Prime Minister very much for his decisive action in support of Israel , and I thank our world - class Royal Air Force for prevent further loss of life . just last week , I have an opportunity to be in Israel to visit the kibbutz where the people — innocent Jews — be murder . I go to the site of the Nova music festival , where over 1 , 000 Israelis be murder , and I speak to some of those family . on Hamas and their sponsorship by the irgc , do the Prime Minister agree that Hamas and the irgc can be liken to cancer , and that to save life throughout the middle east and to retain stability the cancer of Hamas and the irgc need to be remove urgently by all mean necessary ? the hon . Gentleman be right to point out the destabilising impact of Iran across the region , include action through proxy such as Hamas , the Houthis and other , and we will do everything we can to counter that threat . our constituent will always want we to think about the second - order consequence of british military action . when the Government deploy the RAF to defend civilian in Libya , a full parliamentary debate be hold afterwards and a vote be grant to member of this House . that be in line with the convention that have be observe for most of the last 20 year . will the Government grant Members a full debate and a vote on british military action , even after the action have happen ? no , I do not believe that be necessary . I be obviously here answer question . it be my job to take action where I believe it be necessary , and it be the job of Parliament to hold I accountable for that . but it be right that we move quickly to respond to an immediate and dangerous threat . publicise any action in advance would undermine the effectiveness of the operation . we act in line with precedent , and we have also make very clear and public statement that we will not hesitate to protect our ally . I thank the Prime Minister for his statement . I suspect there will be a slight change of personnel before the next statement . Cass Review with your permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I would like to make a statement on the Cass review of gender identity service for child and young people . may I say how pleased I be that we be join by parent of child who have be affect by some of the issue raise in this review ? I hope all of we will bear the sensitivity of this debate in mind as we discuss it this afternoon . this review strike hard and sure at an area of public policy where fashionable cultural value have overtake evidence , safety and biological reality . this must now stop . as recently as 2009 , the NHS ' s sole gender identity development service at the Tavistock and Portman NHS Foundation Trust receive few than 60 referral for child and young people , and just 15 for adolescent girl . since then , demand have surge . by 2016 , over 1 , 700 child and young people a year be refer — a 34 - fold increase . More than half be teenage girl . in 2022 , more than 5 , 000 child and young people be refer to gender identity clinic , and almost three quarter be female . this exponential increase in demand be not a coincidence ; it have be drive by a number of factor which I will come to later , but at its heart it be drive by a myth . this myth be that for child and young people grapple with adolescence who be question their identity , their sexuality or their path in life , the answer to their question be inevitably to change gender to solve their feeling of unease , discomfort or distress . that near - uniform prescription be impose on child and young people with complex need without full and thoughtful consideration of their wide need , include , as be set out in the report , condition such as neurodiversity , experience such as childhood trauma or mental health condition , or indeed discover who it be that they may one day fall in love with . indeed , the response from some of the people who should have protect they — some of the clinician in charge of their care at the Tavistock clinic — be almost always to put they on an irreversible path : block puberty , then prescribe cross - sex hormone , and on to surgery as an adult . in other word , such professional be not ask the right question of themselves or of their patient . that be why in 2020 , with the support of my predecessor , my right hon . friend the Members for West Suffolk ( Matt Hancock ) and for Bromsgrove ( Sir Sajid Javid ) , NHS England commission Dr Hilary Cass to examine the state of service for child question their gender . I would like to start by thank Dr Cass and her team for undertake a consider , comprehensive and courageous review into an extremely contentious area of healthcare . since NHS England commission the review in 2020 , they have meticulously unpick what go wrong , what the evidence really show and how to design a fundamentally different service that well serve the need of child . I must also thank those who raise the alarm and contribute to the review over the last four year : the clinician who speak up against their peer to blow the whistle about what be happen at the Tavistock clinic , even though it risk their career ; the journalist , academic and activist who listen to their story and investigate far , even when they be deride as bigot and transphobe ; the parent who be just try their good to support their child , but be so badly let down by a service that vilify they for question whether the intervention offer be right for their child ; and , of course , the young people themselves who have share their experience , include those who have go through the pain of de - transition only to find out that the so - call " reversible " treatment they be offer be not in fact reversible . the Cass review make for sober reading . it be extremely thorough , so I will not attempt to cover all its recommendation today , but I genuinely encourage all member to read the report in full . it should concern every single Member of this House that part of our public space — the NHS — be overtake by a culture of secrecy and ideology that be allow to trump evidence and safety . we say enough be enough ; our young people deserve well , and we must do whatever it take to protect they . since the publication of Dr Cass ' s interim report in 2022 , a series of important change have be make , and I put on record my thank to NHS England ' s chief executive , Amanda Pritchard , and all those at NHS England who have work hard with Dr Cass to implement they . on 31 March , the Tavistock clinic finally close , have stop see new patient a year early . two new regional hub have be open , in partnership with the country ' s most prestigious child ' s hospital , to ensure that child be support by specialist , multidisciplinary team . indeed , another hub will follow in Bristol later this year . in the past few week , NHS England make the landmark decision to end the routine prescription to child of puberty blocker for gender dysphoria . on the day of publication of Dr Cass ' s final report , it announce that it be stop child under 18 from be see by adult gender service with immediate effect , and an urgent review on clinical policy for cross - sex hormone will now follow without delay . I also welcome NHS England ' s plan to bring forward its full review of adult service , include Dr Cass ' s recommendation for a follow - through service for young people up to the age of 25 . I also share Dr Cass ' s concern that clinician who subscribe to gender ideology will try to use private provider to get around the rule . let I give a very clear warning : prescribing be a highly regulate activity , and the Care Quality Commission have not license any gender clinic to prescribe hormone blocker or cross - sex hormone to people under the age of 16 . any clinic that do may be commit extremely serious regulatory offence for which its licence can be revoke and its clinician can be strike off . my official have be in contact with the CQC follow the final report to ask that it look again at the age threshold in its licensing condition . the CQC have also reassure we that it will incorporate Dr Cass ' s recommendation into their safe care and treatment standard for all care provider . that mean that all new provider will be ask if their practice respect the Cass review , and all exist provider have to meet the same rigorous standard when they be review by the CQC . my official meet the General Medical Council over the weekend , and will do so again in the come day , to understand how it will ensure that every clinician on its register follow its code of practice and implement the wide finding of the Cass review . it be morally and medically reprehensible that some online provider not register in the UK have state their intention to continue to issue prescription to child in this country . I be look closely at what can be do to curtail any loophole in prescribing practice , include legislative option . nothing be off the table , and I will update the House in due course as we progress that work at pace . Dr Cass also find that there be a lack of robust datum on what happen to the 9 , 000 child who be treat by gender identity service between 2009 and 2020 . many go on to continue their treatment at adult clinic , and the University of York have be due to research the long - term consequence of treatment they receive as child , so that we can properly support they through their journey into adulthood . it be expect to provide important insight into the clinic ' s work , include how many patient de - transitioned and how many be also diagnose with a mental health condition or an autism spectrum disorder . this Government take the unprecedented step of change the law to make it possible for adult gender clinic to share medical datum with the university . all bar one of the adult gender clinic refuse to co - operate with this vital research . to quote Dr Cass , that be " unacceptable " , but I would go even far : I think it be deplorable and a dereliction of their professional duty . I be pleased to update the House that follow the publication of Dr Cass ' s report , I have be inform that all seven clinical lead for the adult gender service now intend to fully participate in this important work . Dr Cass also conclude that a cultural shift alone " do not adequately explain " the huge growth in young woman be refer to gender service . she paint an alarming picture of digitally engage young woman who be frequently expose to pornography involve violent , coercive , degrading and pain - induce act . be it any wonder than more and more of they be look for way to opt out of become woman ? that be deeply troubling and , as Dr Cass make clear , we have a duty to support those young woman with consider , evidence - base care . our child deserve healthcare that be compassionate , caring and careful . their safety and wellbeing must come above any other concern , and anyone who threaten it must be hold to account . I will work with NHS England to root out the ideology that have cause so much unnecessary harm , to support those who have already receive life - alter treatment , to give the next generation access to holistic care , and to protect our child ' s future . anything less would be neglect our duty to the next generation . that will not happen under this government , and it will not happen under my watch . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I thank the Secretary of State for advance sight of her statement and , even more importantly , Dr Hilary Cass and her team for the thoughtful and thorough way in which they have undertake their work . Dr Cass have navigate the complexity and sensitivity of the subject with academic rigour , provide an evidence - lead framework for child to receive the good possible healthcare . I also pay tribute to journalist such as Hannah Barnes and the whistleblower who together help to shine a light on what be go on at the Tavistock clinic . at the heart of the complexity around this issue be two thing that be true simultaneously . there be trans adult in this country who have follow a medical pathway and who say that , for all the pain and difficulty that involve , it be not just life - affirming ; it be lifesave . there be also people in this country who follow a medical pathway but who say it be a disaster that ruin their life irreversibly , and they ask how anyone could have let that happen . for the sake of all those child , young people and now adult — but particularly those be refer into gender identity service today — we have a duty to get this right . what have emerge in the Cass review be a scandal . it be a scandal that child and young people be wait far too long — often year — for care while their wellbeing deteriorate and their childhood slip away . it be scandalous that medical intervention have be make on the basis of shaky evidence . it be scandalous that , despite all that , some NHS provider refuse to co - operate with Dr Cass ' s review . perhaps the bad scandal of all be that the toxicity of this discussion mean that people have feel silence , and it require investigative journalism to prompt the review to take place . this particularly vulnerable group of child and young people be at the wrong end of all the statistic for mental ill health , suicide and self - harm . there be no doubt that they have be very badly let down , so we owe it to they to approach this discussion with the same care and sensitivity with which Dr Cass undertake her review . part of the report will sound familiar to anyone acquaint with the NHS today . child and young people face unacceptably long waiting list and be unable to get the mental health support and assessment they require , and service face significant staff shortage , with a lack of workforce planning drive all of that . as with so many part of the NHS today , the report paint a picture of a service unable to cope with demand . Dr Cass be clear that care must be personal and holistic . will the Secretary of State set out how she plan to cut waiting time for assessment for mental health and neurodevelopmental condition ? waiting list be so bad in some case that child be pass into adulthood before they have have their first appointment with gender identity service , leave they face a cliff edge . cass recommend follow - through service up to the age of 25 to ensure continuity of care . will the Secretary of State indicate how long she think it will take to establish those service ? Labour welcome the decision by NHS England last month to stop the routine prescription of puberty blocker to under - 18 . the loophole that exist for private provider risk spark a black market . the Secretary of State have say that she expect private clinic to follow the report ' s recommendation to follow the evidence . I underline our support for her expectation on compliance . can she give an indication of whether she think that further regulation may be need to ensure adequate enforcement of the recommendation ? the refusal of adult gender service to share datum on the long - term experience of patient be inexcusable — as the Secretary of State say , it be deplorable . the data do not belong to they ; it belong to the NHS and , crucially , to patient . I welcome their come forward now , but how be this allow to happen , and what accountability do she think would be appropriate ? this report must provide a watershed moment for the NHS ' s gender identity service . child ' s healthcare should always be lead by evidence and be in the good interest of child ' s welfare . Dr Cass ' s report have provide the basis on which to go forward . the report must also provide a watershed moment for the way in which our society and our politic discuss this issue . there be child , young people and adult — include trans child , young people and adult — in this country who be desperately worried and frighten by the toxicity of this debate . there be healthcare professional who be scared to do their job and make their view know . Dr Cass say that " toxic , ideological and polarise public debate have make the work of the Review significantly hard " and it will hamper the research that be essential to find a way forward . even in a general election year , there be surely one issue on which we can down tool and work together : the pursuit of the healthcare of vulnerable people . I pay tribute to the right hon . member for Bromsgrove ( Sir Sajid Javid ) . we have many scrap across the Dispatch Box , but for his role in commission this review he deserve our thank and respect . I hope to work constructively with the Health Secretary to put child ' s health and wellbee above the political fray . I welcome all those who have change their mind about this critical issue . in order to move forward and get on with the vital work that Dr Cass recommend , we need more people to face up to the truth , no matter how uncomfortable that make they feel . I hope the hon . Gentleman have the humility to understand that the ideology that he and his colleague espouse be part of the problem . he talk about the culture and the toxicity of the debate . do he understand the hurt that he cause to people when he tell they to " just get over it " ? do he know that when he and his friend on the left spend the last decade cry , " culture war , " when legitimate concern be raise create an atmosphere of intimidation , with the impact on the workforce that he rightly describe ? People be scared or worried to go into it . do the hon . Gentleman now have the good grace to apologise to those who have be malign in public life — include his own female colleague — and for the chilling effect that this have have on clinician , journalist and campaigner who be try to raise the alarm ? I say that because I want to believe the hon . Gentleman when he say that he have turn a corner on this issue . we have to start with a new page , for the sake not just of the child and young people we be look after but of their family , many of whom will be watch this , live with the consequence of the ideology and secrecy , wonder how on earth the hon . Gentleman talk about general election when , every single minute and day , their child have to live with treatment that can never be reverse . the report be very welcome , but it have be a long time come . one issue I would like to put to my right hon . friend be the whole failure of governance that it show . in particular , NHS England ' s specialist commissioning require challenge . as she explain , what be initially commission as a treatment course for a small minority of people have be allow to expand unchecked and without any consideration of the ethic of what be be do to child . what will she do to ensure that do not happen again ? secondly , the Tavistock clearly enjoy the popularity bring by be at the front end of what be see as a set of cut - edge treatment . frankly , the governor allow that to get in the way of what they should have be do : ensure patient safety . what do she propose to do about that as well ? I thank my hon . friend , who in her parliamentary career have do so much to shine a light on this sort of behaviour . she have espouse worry , both publicly and privately , about the child and young people at the heart of this matter . look to the future , the Tavistock clinic have shut . as I say , it stop admit patient a year ago . the new service that be already in place — the two new hub , with plan to expand far across the country — be about ensure a multidisciplinary approach to young people , so that , with exactly the experience Dr Cass set out so starkly in her report , child be treat as human being and patient , not as siloe condition . one of the main problem that emerge with the Tavistock behaviour and the way it take place be that gender questioning be siloe in a way that no other health or mental health condition be . we want to move back to a place where clinician be no long scared of look after child and young people with these issue , and that they see it as part of their general practice and general work . that be how we be well go to address the very complex need of many of these child and young people . I call the SNP spokesperson . I be grateful for advance sight of the statement . nobody ' s identity should be up for debate , and nor should it be use as a political football . Dr Cass say in her report : " polarisation and stifling of debate do nothing to help the young people catch in the middle of a stormy social discourse , and in the long run will also hamper the research that be essential to find the good way of support they to thrive . " that polarisation be the last thing need by young people in access care , their family and the NHS staff work hard to care for they . do the Secretary of State agree that we must all remain respectful at all time when discuss these important issue , and that decision on this and any other type of treatment should rightly be make by clinician , not politician ? Dr Cass explicitly make the point that her report be not about question trans identity or roll back access to healthcare for young trans people . indeed , support and improve the gender identity healthcare system for all , include child and young people , be what we should be focus on . so can the Secretary of State confirm today whether any additional funding will be make available to ensure that young trans people can access the quality healthcare they need and deserve ? finally , on conversion practice , the Government Equalities Office say last month in an answer to a write question : " the Government expect to deliver a draft bill that take account of the independent Cass review " . can the Secretary of State provide an update on what conversation she have have with Cabinet colleague on how the Cass review will influence the UK Government ' s legislative proposal on ban conversion practice , and when can we expect they to be publish ? I encourage both the Scottish National party in Scotland and Labour in Wales — health be devolve in those country , of course — to respond as quickly as possible to the finding of the review . the hon . Lady ask whether it be Barnett - ise . for these purpose , our work to ensure that the clinic meet the need of our population in England be not additional money . we be re - prioritise within NHS budget to ensure that the service be spread across the country . I encourage the scottish nationalist to prioritise the need of their child and young people in the same way . I would also gently make the point that , when it come to the atmosphere of this debate , I do not believe it have be help by the SNP ' s highly controversial Hate Crime and Public Order ( Scotland ) Act 2021 . I note , for example , the behaviour and engagement on Twitter of very high - profile people in Scotland , and the impact that it have have when people have dare to name activist in this arena . I would also ask the Scottish Labour party to explain why it help the SNP to pass that Act , because to I this seem to be all about the atmosphere . I call the Chair of the Women and Equalities Committee . Dr Cass ' s observation about violent and degrading pornography be chill , and we know of the impact that be have not just on young girl but on all our young people . her recommendation also include significant and specific reference to expand service and follow - through service for 17 to 25 - year - old . what concern have my right hon . friend about the capacity for that , and about the possible impact on other area of healthcare ? we know that the transition from child ' s service to adult service can be problematic in the case of a wide range of service , not least for those suffer from body dysmorphia or eat disorder . might there be any crossover , with young people have access to some sort of interim service before the age of 25 , and will more fund be commit so that we do not continue to see what all of we will face in our constituency : the horror of young people be unable to access child and adolescent mental health service before they turn 18 and become reliant on adult mental health care ? my right hon . friend be right to identify the cohort of young people between the age of 17 and 25 as be of particular concern . now that we have a clear pathway in relation to the treatment of child and young people under the age of 17 , I have ask NHSE to focus primarily on that next cohort . speak to parent give one a very real sense of their concern about what they describe as the cliff edge between child and young people ' s service and adult service for this very vulnerable group of young people . I do not want that to continue , and over the come month we will see NHSE develop work to help that cohort . my right hon . friend have an understanding not just of how transformational the report and its evidence be , but of the challenge that this mean for our health service in England and how we choose to respond . as for funding , NHSE have commit more than £ 17 million to the two new hub in the current financial year , and I hope and expect that our devolved administration will commit similar sum to look after child and young people in their area . the Secretary of State have speak of the need for multi - site centre , and have point out that two hub have already be establish . will she tell we a little more about her plan to expand this to make it multi - site , and when that be likely to happen ? as I have say , we hope to expand it to Bristol later in the year , and there will be a further three or four site across England . however — this be a really important part of the report — this be not just about specialist service but about give clinician the necessary confidence to look after child and young people who may well be present at their clinic or surgery with this condition as one of a number of condition . we want to give they back that confidence , and the comfort of know that they need not just go down the narrow pathway of specialist service . of course that will be appropriate for many , but we want to treat the whole child rather than treat just this particular condition , as have happen in the past . I must first declare my interest as a practise NHS consultant paediatrician whose practice sometimes involve care for child with the condition we have be describe . the Cass Review make for sober reading . this be an example of ideology be allow to trump evidence and safeguarding . let I give the Secretary of State a specific example . individual have thwart the attempt of those work on the report to conduct research that would give they a well understanding of the outcome for some child . I be pleased to hear that those people be now co - operating , but we should note the content of a letter from John Stewart , the national director of specialised commissioning , which be append to the report . he say that although NHS England write to the chief executive and medical director of all NHS trust , the research datum be not release . one of the duty of doctor that be specify by the General Medical Council be to " engage with colleague to maintain and improve the safety and quality of … care . " may I ask the Secretary of State who exactly block that datum , what investigation will be carry out to find out which individual be responsible , and how they will individually be hold accountable for their action ? how be it possible for they to do this in the first place , and what be she do to ensure that datum can not be block in the same way in the future ? I be extremely grateful to my hon . friend for bring her clinical expertise and experience to the Chamber and to this important debate . as for her precise question about who do what and when , I hope she will understand that I have be work at pace on this report over the last few day ; I have ask these question myself , and I will update the House when I be in a position to do so . let I return the House ' s attention to the expectation , not just moral but professional — in the light of the report and the evidence that it have produce — that clinician and other medical professional will act in accordance with these recommendation . that will mean that when regulator examine the conduct of medical professional , they do so against this backdrop and in the context of these expectation . if there be people who be operate under the misguided apprehension that their ideology trump the evidence , I fully expect the regulator to crack down on that . rise — Order . I be anxious to ensure that everyone get in , because this be an important statement , but we also need to ensure that the question be brief so that the Secretary of State can give brief response . we have a big debate ahead of we on the Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Bill , follow by another debate on the hospice movement , and I be sure that many member will want to participate in those as well . perhaps they will bear that in mind when frame their question . let I first thank the Secretary of State for her thoughtful and consider statement on the Cass review , and especially for mention the journalist , such as my friend Hannah Barnes , who blow the whistle on the Tavistock clinic . as she have say , those who have raise this issue over the last few year , desperately concerned about the safeguarding of vulnerable child and young people — too young to make life - change decision — be owe a heartfelt apology for be no - platforme , ghost , sideline and discipline at the behest of a few extreme group of activist , some within political party . do she agree that these academic , politician , writer , psychologist and actor , along with any other people who have question the signing up of their workplace to Stonewall law , have now be vindicate by Dr Cass ' s expert review , and that they should be apologise to ? I come to the Dispatch Box with huge admiration for the hon . Lady for the commitment that she and other Labour Back Benchers have show , in a culture and an atmosphere in which their view be demean and they be sneer at and castigate . indeed , I hear rumour that effort be make to remove certain member from the party itself . this be the moment for apology and for humility , but also for we to start a clean page and ensure that , when perfectly reasonable question be ask about the medical treatment of our child , those question be allow to be ask in an atmosphere of respect and understanding , so that these vulnerable child and young people be look after in a caring and careful way . I warmly welcome the Cass review and its finding , and the extraordinarily strong statement make by my right hon . friend . I have no doubt that what happen at GIDS — the Gender Identity Development Service — will go down as one of the bad safeguarding and medical scandal of our generation . I pay tribute to the brave parent , include those in the Bayswater support group , who have be raise concern for year about the ethic and the safety of put vulnerable child on irreversible and unevidenced medical pathway with the aim of achieve something that can never be achieve , which be to change their sex . those who speak up for the interest of child and , frankly , for the interest of common sense be label bigot , transphobe and even fascist . even after concern be raise and Dr Cass have be commission , the Tavistock be allow to continue to practise , which be a shocking suspension of the precautionary principle . this scandal happen because too many adult put their own desire for social approval above the safety of vulnerable child . how can we make sure that that do not happen again ? as my hon . friend be ask that question , there be people on the Opposition Benches tutte she . that show that while some understand the need to keep the debate about the clinical need of these child and compassion , there be still people on the Opposition Benches who do not get it . for example , in 2020 the deputy leader of the Labour party sign a charter describe body such as Woman ' s Place UK , which , dare I say , campaign for single - sex rape refuge — to which the House know I have an enormous commitment — as " trans - exclusionist hate group " . that sort of language need to be apologise for , so that we can all move on . we expect clinician and medical professional to do the right thing by the Cass report , and by our child and young people . there need to be some leadership from all of we in public life to ensure that we set the right example to those people . at its heart , the Cass report sadly highlight the low standard of care for our young people who be catch up in a toxic debate . there be long waiting list , and the debate seep into the staffing of the medical profession . do the Secretary of State agree that we have to look at the wellbeing of our child holistically ? how will she overcome the recruitment and staffing problem that have be create by this toxic debate ? I thank the hon . Lady , who have an exemplary record of campaign on this issue . this come down to the very careful review by Dr Cass . we have to get away from the idea that if a child present with gender distress , that be the only part of their health that we should care about and look into . we have to look across the board to ensure that we look after every single part of they and do not assume that medical pathway be the only and inevitable pathway for they . one of the concern raise in the report be that the terrible mental health issue that many child and young people be suffer from be not be look after . People be just put on drug and expect to get on with it . that be wrong , and we be determined to change it . what be the Secretary of State ' s reaction to the news that almost all gender clinic refuse to co - operate with the Cass review ? do she agree that this be too important an issue for a circle - the - wagon attitude ? what can she do to ensure that government guidance be follow to the letter , and in spirit , when we tackle a gender ideology that seem to be run rampant through our public institution ? this be not about my emotion , but I can tell my hon . friend that I be disgusted and angry . what be more , this be about be able to have conversation in our public space . for example , if our public institution — whether it be the NHS , school or whatever — be ask to respond to a thoughtful and careful review such as the Cass report , they must do so , because this information do not belong to they ; it belong to their patient , to future patient — because we want to shape service to help they — and to we as a nation . I welcome such institution ' about - turn in decide that they will provide the datum . I be pleased that have happen , but my goodness I , I wish they have do it early . all trans child and young people deserve access to high - quality and timely healthcare and support . around 100 study have not be include in the Cass report , and we need to know why . [ Official Report , 22 April 2024 ; Vol . 748 , c . 663 . ] ( Correction ) the Secretary of State be obviously not concerned about the way that the Cass report have be use to perpetuate a broad hostile environment towards trans people in the UK — a hostile environment create in part by the Government ' s delay in reform the Gender Recognition Act 2004 . misrepresent the report , and the high - and - mighty attitude from the Secretary of State , help no one . will she commit to the extra funding need to help young people have a holistic approach to their healthcare pathway ? I be not clear whether the hon . Lady support the report or be castigate it ; I have no idea whether she support it or not . we be try to use the evidence in this very thorough and thoughtful review , in the word of her Front - Bench spokesman , to help clinician treat our young people and child in a compassionate , caring way . I have notice , and have have it report to I by other who have be watch , that certain campaigner be try to build up a head of steam to say that the report be somehow flawed . it be not . this be superb evidence , and the NHS have assure we that it will act on it . the Cass review highlight the deterioration of mental health in young people . it particularly highlight the impact of social medium , which put awful pressure on young people . the mental health crisis obviously affect both boy and girl , but as the Secretary of State highlight early , it particularly affect girl and young woman . will she continue to turbocharge child and adolescent mental health service ' crisis team , and give they the resource that they desperately need to support our young people ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . we want to not just help with crisis support , but prevent our young people from get into a position of crisis in the first place , so we be roll out mental health support team , ahead of our schedule , across school . that be a really important piece of work that will help 44 % of the student population , but we want to go even far . in the 12 - month period end in March 2021 , we increase the number of child and young people age under 18 who receive nhs - fund mental health service to some 758 , 000 . [ Official Report , 13 May 2024 ; Vol . 750 , c . 2wc . ] ( Correction ) of course , we want that support to be there in the community , but importantly we also want to help clinician to understand that this be just one of several set of condition that they should have confidence to work on , in order to look after the child holistically . give the vile campaign direct towards anyone who disagree with the transgender lobby , we should congratulate Dr Cass and her team on have the courage to write their report , and the Secretary of State on her robust defence of it . in the light of the report , and give that it seem that the transgender lobby have infiltrate the NHS in England , what step be she take to purge that lobby from the NHS ? what discussion have she have with Ministers in Northern Ireland , Scotland and Wales to ensure that the same policy and practice be not carry out in the public and private sector there ? the reason why I be able to be so robust on this issue be that I believe in it ; on that , I may be different from other . the challenge that the right hon . Gentleman rightly put forward be that we have to ensure that NHS England act as an organisation , but also at the individual and local level , to implement the reform that the report recommend . I want to be fair to clinician , medical professional , manager and other who very much support the review . I want to support they in take up the recommendation . what individual clinician may or may not have do in the past will be a matter for both NHS England and the regulator go forward . the moral and professional expectation be that in future , clinician , medical professional and all of we will respect the evidence and the recommendation of this important report . I would like to put on the record my thank to Dr Hilary Cass for her thoughtful and comprehensive review . do my right hon . friend agree that those of we across this House who , for the past few year , have be call for a pause on the ban on conversion therapy while we wait for Cass , because of concern not with the L , g or b , but the t element of the ban on LGBT conversion therapy , have be completely vindicate in that call ? I thank my hon . friend sincerely for her help in raise these difficult question and for do so , as she have just demonstrate , in a thoughtful and careful manner . I know that she share my concern that the child and young people at the heart of this should be our focus . we need to build the system around they , rather than they be slot into the system , as have happen in the past . on conversion therapy — again , I be be very mindful of the sensitivity of this — we be commit to support all victim of conversion practice , but we want to avoid any unintended consequence and ensure that the draft Bill take account of the independent Cass review . that be why my Cabinet counterpart , the Minister for Women and Equalities , be lead the work in this area . we be very much consider this complex issue as part of our approach to this sensitive and important matter . the starting point of all modern medicine must be robust and reliable — in fact , rigorous — evidence . back in 2017 , I table a write question at the request of a trans constituent who be concerned that many adult and young people be put themselves through a process that be not the right one for they . that be in 2017 , and we still do not have much well datum , but the datum be the most important thing ; it inform everything . there have be a chilling effect in this Chamber , and on social medium , on people who have speak out , and who have ask question like that — question that we ask for reason to do with everyday healthcare , which we have deny , and the Government have deny , to the child in our care . my hon . friend the Member for Ilford North ( Wes Streeting ) have be fantastic ; he have show great maturity and reflection in his comment in the Chamber and in the medium , and so have the Secretary of State , but as someone who have be at the other end of this , I say : please , Secretary of State , let we get the tone of this debate right , and move forward . the Cass report be a great thing , and we have to work with it to deliver the good outcome for the child in our care . again , I approach the Dispatch Box with humility because I know about the journey that the hon . Lady have be on , and about the debate and question that she have bring forward , not just on behalf of the constituent that she mention , but on the wide issue of the treatment of woman in healthcare and in other part of public life . I very much want we to view the future as a clean sheet , so that we can build service around child , rather than expect they to slot into service for the convenience of argument that be put forward in the past . however , we have to acknowledge that this have be such a long and toxic debate that there will be people who want answer . I appreciate the fact that the hon . member for Ilford North ( Wes Streeting ) have walk back some of his comment , but it be important that we acknowledge the toxicity , so that we can move on and achieve exactly what the hon . Lady and I , and other around the Chamber , seek . [ interruption . ] interestingly , Opposition Members be chuntere from sedentary position . I think that we can make a real change , but a little less snipe from the sideline and a little more constructive work be need . I have call out this ideology locally , and here in Westminster with colleague , at every opportunity available to I . at last , it appear that the world be wake up to this issue . sadly , we know of at least 9 , 000 child who have be affect by this scandal and possibly damage for life , so first I ask the Secretary of State whether she will establish a public inquiry into this issue . secondly , alongside reform to the NHS , we must re - establish safeguarding in school . will the Secretary of State liaise with her Education colleague to fix our statutory safeguarding guidance keep child safe in education ? it currently downplay the risk factor around a child identify as tran ; that must be address . finally , I believe that there be many bad actor who have peddle this nonsense , clearly know what they be do while destroy our young people ' s life . if there be any justice , those individual should feel the full weight of the law . I hope that they be quake in their boot . they ought to be . I thank my hon . friend for his powerful question . I be go to deal , if I may , with his point about a public inquiry , because I know that there be some who be ask whether that would be appropriate . will my hon . friend take it from I that , at the moment — bear in mind that the report land less than a week ago — I be determined to drive forward the action that be need on the ground to help child and young people ? we have have a four - year review into this — Dr Cass have gather a great deal of evidence and it be a very thorough review — and so , for the moment , I want to concentrate on implement the recommendation and on ensure that the service be bring up to the standard that my hon . friend rightly understand . on my hon . friend ' s second point , of course I will liaise with my colleague in the Department for Education . this be about help all public sector professional to ensure that they be act on the evidence , as set out in the Cass review , for the sake of our child and young people . I warmly welcome this statement ; that be not something that the Secretary of State will often hear from I . as she say , the Cass report have vindicate the concern of many whistleblower , include feminist and LGB activist , who warn of the consequence for child of unevidenced medical intervention and the ideological capture of the NHS . for do so , we — because I be part of this — be defame and hound by organisation that many of we have formerly support , like Stonewall , Mermaids , PinkNews , which I have to sue for defamation , and the misnamed Equality Network in Scotland . to their shame , member of this House and Members of the other place join in with that bullying and group - think . while I hear what the Secretary of State have to say about a public inquiry , and about her immediate focus be on implement the recommendation , it seem to I that we do need a public inquiry into how this institutional capture happen in our public body — as we all know , it be not just the NHS — because we need to make sure that never again do ideologue of any sort , or science denier , take hold of our public institution . when the Secretary of State be do with implement the recommendation , or as she be do that , will she support the movement for a public inquiry into these matter ? I be conscious that I have just answer that , but may I put on the record my thank and respect for everything that the hon . and learn Lady have do in this field ? she have at time have to walk a very , very lonely path , and I find it extraordinary that parliamentarian — who be elect to represent the good interest of our constituent , and indeed of our country — would find themselves under that sort of pressure for simply state biological fact . I hope that the hon . and learn Lady will be work with I to ensure that the recommendation in the Cass review be apply not just in England but in Scotland , in Wales and in Northern Ireland . I very much welcome this report and the strong statement by the Secretary of State in response to it . if there be one thing that should be above party politic , above political ideology , and above cultural trend or virtue signalling , it be the welfare of our young people , and this report lay bare that , sadly , that be exactly what have not be happen . this ideology have not only capture part of our NHS ; it be find in many of our public sector institution . I ask the Secretary of State , who have clearly take a strong leadership position on the matter today , whether she will ensure that the finding of this report be implement across Government — in education , local government , social service , and in our police force — to ensure that this can never happen again ? this report set out the evidence , which be not there before . it have take four long year of very hard work to gather that evidence , and I hope and expect that the health sector will implement these recommendation . I also hope we can have a conversation about our wide public space , and I be very pleased to read the article by my right hon . friend the Minister for Women and Equalities over the weekend . we have to de - politicise the public space and ensure that this evidence be apply across the board for the health of all our constituent and our country . I welcome any research , and this report move the debate forward . my reading be that Cass say there be a toxic debate on all side , and that there be particularly nasty and vicious people on all side . I have have poster put outside my house with rude word on they , etc , and it have happen on all side . that be what Cass say — that it be unhelpful . cass say there seem to be little evidence that large number of people feel either regret or success , that there be poor evidence of effectiveness , and that there need to be more evidence on the usefulness of social transition . I read it as say that there need to be an awful lot more evidence , but Cass be clear that young people should not be deny access to healthcare if they be tran ; in fact , they should have more healthcare and more pathway . will the Minister agree to fund that research ? we should not get evidence from just adult service . we need proper longitudinal study that mean we have an evidence base . will the Government support a cass - compliant amendment to my Conversion Practices ( prohibition ) Bill that I believe can square this circle ? I be sorry , but I think there be a certain amount of disbelief in the Chamber . I can not be the only one who remember the debate on the Gender Recognition Reform ( Scotland ) Bill in January 2023 when the hon . Gentleman not only try to shout down female opposition colleague but feel so exercised that he cross the Floor of the House to sit next to my hon . friend the Member for Penistone and Stocksbridge ( Miriam Cates ) . I remember how Conservative Members be genuinely surprised that a Member of Parliament would think it appropriate to behave in that way when debate a subject that we be entitle to , and should feel free to , debate . I be sorry to hear that the hon . Gentleman suffer the abuse that he describe , but set a good example start at home . I hope he will never again behave as he do in the Chamber that day , because that be how we sort out the toxicity of this debate . the Scottish Government ' s response to the Cass review have be one of deafen silence . in fact , SNP Ministers have bury their head in the sand and say nothing proactively about the review or its conclusion and recommendation . indeed , the scottish Conservatives ' request to have a statement in the Scottish Parliament on the Cass review have so far be refuse by the SNP - Green Government , so I welcome the opportunity to speak about it here in the UK Parliament . in her statement , the Secretary of State mention NHS England ' s recent decision to end the routine prescription of puberty blocker to child . however , they be still available in Scotland . what discussion have there be on this issue , if any , between Scottish Government Ministers and the UK Government , or indeed between official in NHS Scotland and NHS England ? I thank my hon . friend for his careful and consider question . I very much hope that the Scottish National party Government will look at the evidence very carefully and find the recommendation to their liking . it be to NHS England ' s credit that it have act so promptly , and I would hope and expect that the devolved nation , let by the Scottish National party and the Welsh Labour party , will follow with similar speed . as I have have to say , because it be in line with the atmosphere in which clinician be have to operate , the Hate Crime and Public Order ( Scotland ) Act 2021 , bring forward by the Scottish National party Government and support by Scottish Labour , can not help the consider debate that we wish to have about this very complex subject , and I encourage they to look at that as part of their overall approach . I welcome the Cass review and its recommendation . mistake have be make that must never happen again , but the polarise public debate that she mention reflect badly on this House . do the Minister agree that make joke about trans people and tran child be cruel , cheapen the debate and move the focus away from ensure that all our young people get the help they need when they need it ? true leadership be not just about be careful with the word we use . I will not recite the many word that other Labour Members have use about trans issue . they say , for example , that it be factually inaccurate to say that only woman have a cervix — [ interruption . ] I be not name they , but that seem an extraordinary thing for a Labour Member to say . [ interruption . ] they do not like to hear their word repeat back to they , but I will resist that temptation and instead focus on the application of policy . Trans prisoner , include those who be fully intact and have be convict of serious sexual offence , be demand to be hold in prison that match their choose gender . this government , include I and many of my predecessor as Prisons Minister , set clear rule to ensure that situation such as the Karen White case be not repeat , so it be very troubling that Opposition Members do not appear to have the same concern when it come to the placing of a trans double rapist , Isla Bryson , in Scotland . [ interruption . ] I be be tell that it be not true but , if Opposition member want to factcheck , apparently it be the deputy leader of the Labour party who say that it do not matter . although I would like to believe that many of these problem will be resolve by guidance and by change the administrative rule , and thing of that kind , I fear that the real problem be much deep . it be about the manner in which , over the last generation , we have introduce legislation that have facilitate these arrangement . I be glad that the Government have pass the Online Safety Act 2023 to deal with the platform on which a lot of this stuff have be spuriously put out by people with absolutely no moral compass . I thank the Secretary of State for what she have say this afternoon , and for the robust and extremely effective manner in which she have say it , but please do not believe that this will be resolve just by change to administrative rule . this be about a moral compass and tell the truth . the legislation , whether it be the Equality Act 2010 , human right law or whatever else it might be , will need to be change . order . I want to get everyone in , but we really can not have mini - speech . we need question that the Secretary of State can answer briefly . the brevity of my answer demonstrate my respect for the observation and experience of my hon . friend the Member for Stone ( Sir William Cash ) . I completely agree with he , and I will enjoy work with he on this . I thank the Secretary of State for her very important statement . I welcome every word of it , just as I welcome the final report of the Cass review . I thank Dr Hilary Cass for her outstanding work in lift the lid on this dangerous ideology and its impact on predominantly young LGB people , and other gender non - conform young people . the Secretary of State make an important point about the insinuation of gender ideology and its impact on the health service . as other member have say , we know that gender ideology have insinuate itself into many of our public body and into debate in this place . piece of legislation be be propose in this place that would enforce the very condition in the Cass report , where gender non - conform young people be deny proper psychological and psychosocial support to come to a reasonable discussion and end point . what support will the Secretary of State provide to have that conversation and to weed out this ideology elsewhere ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his advocacy on this issue . I very much hope that all member will be able to use the evidence produce in this review and report in future debate about legislation so that we can all make informed and correct decision . let ' s be honest , Secretary of State , this excellent review expose institutionalised grooming and abuse by so - call " professional " medical people . what be she go to do to make sure that people push this from day one be , as a minimum , now go to be on the sex offender list and take off be able to practise as medical people ? I thank my hon . friend and near neighbour for that . she be right , as be my hon . friend the Member for Stone ( Sir William Cash ) , to emphasise that this be about not just the debate within the NHS , but what happen online . I know that parent of child affect by this be very aware of the online " grooming " , as they describe it , of child on social medium . I do not want to trespass for the time be on the regulator — we have already have some constructive conversation with they — but the will of the House be clear that we expect the report to be follow and clinician to act on the basis of that evidence . let I start by say that I welcome the Cass review ' s finding , which make it clear that clinical service must be lead by good - quality , robust evidence and highlight the lack and the poor quality of datum . we all know the important role that datum play in deliver for patient . so do the Secretary of State agree that the review of adult gender service should take into account the number of patient with mental health challenge , such as depression , anxiety , autism , self - harm , eat disorder and many other ? what additional resource will be put in place for mental health provision ? I thank the hon . Lady for her thoughtful question , because she rightly list some of the mental health condition that both Dr Cass and professional in this area have realise can be part of the complex need of child and young people who be ask question of their identity and about their path in life . on funding , the financial value of the contract last year with the Tavistock be £ 9 . 3 million , but for this financial year NHS England have commit some £ 17 . 1 million for the two new hub for gender service . of course , they will keep this under review as we build up the service across the country in the way envisage in the report . let I add my thank to Dr Hilary Cass for her review . have listen to this Secretary of State today , I be confident that young people in this situation be in safe hand as she implement the recommendation . however , I wish to ask she about accountability , because what we have see in the NHS with previous scandal , be it the contaminate blood scandal or Mid Staffordshire , be that accountability be a little slippery . accountability be not just about lesson be learn ; it be about people be hold to account for what they have do . so will my right hon . friend be look at way in which there be room for people to be strike off if find to be wrong , for manager to be sack and , in certain circumstance , for legal action to be take ? I completely understand my hon . friend ' s desire for accountability . I just remind we all that some clinician have act in a morally exemplary way , try to blow the whistle on practice they observe . he and I , and , I hope , other , want to ensure that clinician who have not act in accordance with their professional duty be hold to account . as I say , ongoing conversation be take place with the independent regulator , but I suspect that they have very much understand the way in which the House be view this and the seriousness with which we view clinician who have not abide by their professional duty in this regard . many of the Cass review recommendation be to be welcome , but there have be some dangerous misinterpretation of some of the recommendation in public discourse and , crucially , in NHS England ' s response to the recommendation for transitional service for 17 to 25 - year - old . so will the Minister join I in challenge the NHS specialised commission team on its immediate limiting of access to support for 17 - year - old , include with the cancellation of appointment for some who have wait year , and in call on it to immediately reinstate access while it review next step ? I hope the hon . Lady will forgive I if I have misunderstand her question , but I think she be refer to the decision that NHS England will prevent under - 18 from access adult gender service . a consultation have just close and we be look at the result of that , but I be very sensitive to the need of young people within that 17 - to - 25 cohort for whom the " cliff edge " , as it have be describe to I , of move from child ' s service to adult service may not be in their good interest . I promise that that be very much the focus of my work on this in the week ahead . my experience of speak to my constituent on this subject have be characterise by fear — it be often the fear of mother about their daughter , the fear of what be happen to their child and the fear of speak out because of the group - think and the toxicity of the debate . do my right hon . friend agree that Dr Cass ' s extensive , evidence - base report should mark an absolute turning point , in ensure that we spearhead our approach to this debate by put child first and be non - ideological in all area — across Government , in all Departments , not just the NHS , in education and in our public body ? I thank my hon . friend sincerely for that . again , she articulate the concern of many family where a teenager or young person may be suffer complex need and be ask question of themselves and their place in society . we must treat not just the child or young person , but the family with care and respect , try to support they to get to the right place for the child . some constituent who have contact I see in the Cass report a vindication of their long - hold view on sex and gender follow year of abuse , sometimes violent . other who have contact I fear that the Cass review represent an attack on their very existence as trans people and fear the abuse to come . will the Secretary of State set out that she oppose utterly the toxification and politicisation of question of sex and gender ? will she also set out that she will collect the additional evidence that the Cass review call for , without which there can not be an evidence - base approach ? will she also set out that she will put in place the resource our young people need in term of healthcare to ensure that they receive the healthcare appropriate to they ? I thank the hon . Lady for give I the opportunity to make it clear again that this report be about gather the evidence to help support our child and young people to the good care they can have . for a very small number that may well be a medical pathway , but for the overwhelming majority we know from Dr Cass ' s report that there may be other way in which they can be well support and look after . I do not want anyone to walk away from this debate thinking that this be somehow a report about those adult who have make that decision of their own free will and be live their life as freely as we all want they to — it be not . it be about the healthcare and emotional care and support that we give to young people and their family , and the professional confidence we give to clinician to ensure that we get to the right place for each and every individual child . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s powerful statement and the Cass report . however , we have to acknowledge that the report would not have be commission without this Government , with the support of some other party . so many Opposition member just stay silent and think the report be pretty much a waste of time , and to see the lack of any appreciation of that today be shocking and shameful . on the timetable to enact the wide finding of the Cass report , I be grateful for what the Secretary of State say about meet the GMC over the weekend , but there be work to be do . secondly and really concerningly , what step be — order . I be sure the hon . Lady do not mean " secondly " , because she be not make a speech . she have one question to ask , and I would be grateful if she could ask it . what be we go to do to provide emotional and psychological support for those who have already undergo this treatment with irrevocable consequence ? my hon . friend ' s observation about member from other part of the Chamber and their response to this be well make , frankly . [ interruption . ] gosh , I be be tell they be not true . Crikey , Opposition Members may have just open up a Pandora ' s box . on my hon . friend ' s point about support people who have go through the process and be try to detransition , she be absolutely right that they need particular care . I be actively look into what NHS England need to provide to look after the very complex need that such people have . have the Secretary of State see today ' s very sad interview with Judge Victoria McCloud , Britain ' s only senior transgender judge , who have be drive from her job because of anti - trans hate , particularly the trend among some politician and opinion former to describe be transgender as " an ideology " ? the Secretary of State have use the term " ideology " , as have a number of her colleague , during this statement . for the benefit of the House and trans people , will she clarify that she do not believe that be transgender be " an ideology " ? I genuinely thank the right hon . gentleman for give I the chance to re - emphasise that . when I have talk about ideology , it be the ideology influence or make assumption about the provision of service for any child or young person who be question their place , sexuality , identity or future path in life . the ideology be the one that influence the service that Dr Cass have set out so very well . of course , if an adult choose to live their life as a transgender adult then they must do so freely , and , I would hope , with compassion and understanding from all of we . by the way , I have be talk about this for many year ; when I be Minister for Women , I talk about this subject . we must deal with this issue in a caring and careful way , and that be what Dr Cass emphasise in her report . I welcome this statement . the Cass report highlight the area of prescribing untested and irreversible drug as puberty blocker to young people , but in Wales the pathway for young people diagnose with gender dysphoria include referral to gender service in England . the Cass report also warn against teacher be force into make premature and effectively clinical decision about affirmation , such as social transitioning , and yet that be implicit throughout the Welsh Government ' s LGBTQ + action plan and their compulsory relationship and sexuality education curriculum . do the Secretary of State agree that these finding have relevance for the safeguarding of child in England and Wales ? do she agree that parent , teacher and health worker across England and Wales can expect politician to take heed of these finding ? I very much agree with my hon . friend . he be always very good at expose the difference in treatment that patient in Wales receive compare with those in England . give that the leader of the Labour party have say that Wales be the " blueprint " for how it plan to run the NHS in England , I hope and expect that the Labour party will be true to its word and the labour - run NHS in Wales will be announce its immediate adoption of these recommendation , as well as the transformation to service that we in England be already undertake . many of we recognise the value of the Cass report , as my hon . friend the Member for Brighton , Kemptown ( Lloyd Russell - Moyle ) set out , in its call for evidence and a thoughtful approach , and its recognition that the collapse of child and adolescent mental health service have contribute to the difficulty in child access service . however , I stand here today with terrified constituent who be part of the backlog . I dare say that thousand of those child have be watch this debate with their family and be frightened to hear the heat , not light . the Secretary of State have a brief in front of she , so can I ask she a practical question for my constituent who do not understand what this will mean for wait time and delay ? she say that she be not put any new money into the service but fund be be reprioritise . in practical term , what will that mean for those young people who be try to navigate what be happen to they , who need our support and care , not the derision of any political movement ? I refer the hon . Lady to the answer I give early about funding . in relation to the waiting list , we have already remove the Tavistock as the single provider of these service . we have now set up two set of service in highly respected — world - respect — child ' s hospital , and we will add more . again , the issue go back to give GPs and other practitioner the confidence to look after these child as they would if they be present solely with , for example , ADHD symptom or concern about mental health . this be about say that this issue be one part of the patient they must treat , not isolate and siloe it in the way that have happen historically . provide hormone blocker to child be wrong ; encourage and give cross - sex hormone to child be wrong ; and encourage breast bind for child be wrong . in the future , I believe we will look back on this scandal — and it be a scandal — with incredulity about how we do this to our child , especially our girl . we should all be embarrassed that this be the situation we be in . it be not just carry on in our hospital and the medical profession ; this sort of ideology be go on in our school . do the Secretary of State share my concern and those of my constituent , who have raise the issue with I in private because they can not raise it publicly , that a school in Rother Valley be fundraise for Mermaids , a charity that be accuse of encourage young people to transition simply because they do not confirm to gender stereotype , even though they be too young to understand the consequence ? do the Secretary of State share my belief that Mermaids and other such charity have no place in our school , and no place to help to hinder our child ? I thank my hon . friend , and I will set out the practical and important step NHS England have already take , which I hope other part of the United Kingdom will follow . NHS England have ban the prescription of puberty blocker for gender dysphoria to child under the age of 18 . on the advice of Dr Cass , cross - sex hormone can be prescribe only with extreme caution for those age 16 and old . no cross - sex hormone may be prescribe to those under 16 for gender dysphoria . there be medical caveat to that for other medical condition , and we need to be very careful about unintended consequence , which be why this be such a complicated piece of work . we want to ensure that these drug be prescribe to the right people , if they should be prescribe at all . on my hon . friend ' s point about campaign organisation , part of our collective frustration be that our public space have become politicised . I would say there be no space for that sort of campaign activity in any of our public institution . I appreciate that a range of view must be represent . young people must be help to discover their path in life , their sexuality and all of the thing that be such a wonderful part of grow up , but we have to do so in a way that be fair and rigorous , and do not give way against the evidence into the realm of ideology , which sadly we have see in some instance . I welcome the Cass review . its recommendation merit proper and full consideration . Dr Cass have call for young trans people , their family and clinician to be treat with respect and compassion . sadly , we have not see that today in some of the comment and heckle that have be make during the statement . will the Secretary of State commit to challenge the harmful culture of transphobia in the UK , which be grow , and that be challenge in 2022 when the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe place the UK alongside Russia , Hungary and Turkey ? if the hon . Gentleman want to work constructively with I on ensure that we deal with this report and the evidence in a caring and careful way , for the benefit not just of child and young people but of the wide tran community , I would welcome his support in so do . although I welcome the call from Dr Cass for all young people , include young trans people , to be " treat with compassion and respect " , I share concern about important element of the review , particularly give the context in which it be publish . last year , transphobic hate crime hit a record high . a United Nations report note deep concern about the increase in " harassment , threat , and violence against LGBT people " in the UK , and blame the toxic debate about sexual orientation and gender identity . will the Minister join I in condemn the rise in transphobia , in acknowledge that trans right be human right , and in recognise that we will only deliver high - quality healthcare that everyone deserve when we respect the right and dignity of all ? not only have I try to espouse those principle in every ministerial role that I have hold , but it be the guide light of this government to try to ensure that we get the right healthcare and support to patient as quickly as possible . we also want to ensure that we be treat not just the condition , but the patient as a whole . as some of the complexity of the debate that we have this afternoon show , young people be at the very heart of this . I think this be the final question , Madam Deputy Speaker , so I will end with the young people that we be concerned about . [ interruption . ] I be so sorry ; I have one more question from the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) . the child and young people who be the focus of this report have to be , and will be , the focus of our work go forward . we want to get the right service to the right child at the right time . I do not want to say that the Secretary of State could ever be wrong , but on her last judgment I have to say that the show be never over until the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) have speak . you be most kind , Madam Deputy Speaker . I know that I have now catch the Secretary of State ' s eye . may I thank the Secretary of State for her fortitude and determination , and Dr Cass for all her endeavour ? both lady — honourable lady , I believe — have be incredibly impressive and capable . we should be take on board Dr Cass ' s report in Northern Ireland . indeed , I will make it my business to ensure that the Minister in Northern Ireland take this in , so I shall be send he a copy of the report . what help and support be available for all those patient who have be in the Tavistock since its inception ? importantly , what step can be take by the Government to stop this malpractice and to stop the movement of the vulnerable — some have call this tantamount to abuse — into privately fund abuse ? how quickly can that protection be put in place ? let I offer the hon . Gentleman my sincere apology ; I be out of practice and should have know that his would be the last question . I genuinely look forward to work with my northern irish counterpart on this , as we have already work together on other matter . the hon . Gentleman make a point about private practice . that be one area that I be work on at pace . what we do not want be to have any idea form that somehow people can get round the strict rule that the NHS be set the system to get these drug to young people and child . I promise to come back and update the House when I have more news on that , but the hon . Gentleman be right to identify that issue . it show the complexity of the matter and the real need for a very clear , detailed and principled approach to help reform our nhs so that we make it fast , simple and fair . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I seek your advice on a matter relate to a constituent who , while on a short break in Spain , be savagely beat by a new partner — now an ex - partner — result in significant bruising all over her body , several tooth knock out and a broken jaw . indeed , it be possible that she be only here thank to the intervention of five Newcastle man who incapacitate the perpetrator . my constituent have receive excellent consular service , which be more than can be say of the service of the spanish police , who I be tell have close the case without take statement from any of the six witness to the attack , allow the thug to plead not guilty . it be now a case of " he say , she say , " which , as we all know , make it very difficult to secure a conviction . that mean he may well be back in Scotland , free to harass and terrorise my constituent . this situation be unacceptable , so how good should I proceed as an MP to raise urgent casework of this sort with overseas government ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his point of order . I be afraid that there be not much that I can say , as this be not a matter for the Chair , but may I express my own sadness at what have happen ? what a dreadful thing for his constituent to have to suffer . I can understand his concern on her behalf about how the matter be be deal with . I can only advise he to write to the relevant Foreign Office Minister , who will undoubtedly take up the case . he say that the consular authority provide a good service , which be good news . that be really the only route that I can suggest that he go down , but he might also wish to consult the Table Office . certainly , he have bring the matter to the attention of the House , and the whole House will be sorry to hear what have happen . safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Bill consideration of Lords message [ relevant document : Second Report of the Joint Committee on Human Rights , Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Bill , HC 435 , and the Government response , HC 647 . ] I can confirm that nothing in the Lords message engage Commons financial privilege . clause 1 - introduction I beg to move . with this it will be convenient to discuss the follow Government motion : that this House disagree with the Lords in their amendment 3b and 3c . that this House disagree with the Lords in their amendment 6b . that this House disagree with the Lords in their amendment 7b . that this House insist on its disagreement with the Lords in their amendment 9 but propose additional Amendment ( a ) to the Bill in lieu of that amendment . that this House disagree with the Lords in their amendment 10b . here we be , back again debate the same issue and amendment that we have already reject . we be not quite at the point yet of complete each other ' s sentence , but we be almost there . the issue before the House be whether the clearly express view of this House throughout the entire passage of the Bill should prevail . we simply can not accept amendment that provide for loophole that will perpetuate the current cycle of delay and late legal challenge to removal . we have a moral duty to stop the boat . we must bring an end to the dangerous , unnecessary , and illegal method that be be deploy . we must protect our border and , most importantly , save life at sea . our partnership with Rwanda be a key part of our strategy . the message be absolutely clear : if a person come to the United Kingdom illegally , they will not be able to stay . they will be detain and swiftly return to their home country or to a safe third country — Rwanda . will the Minister give way ? no , I will not give way . on Lords amendment 1 , the use of a section 19 ( 1 ) ( b ) statement do not mean that the Bill be incompatible with the european convention on human right . there be nothing improper or unprecedented with such a statement . it do not mean that the Bill be unlawful or that the Government will necessarily lose any legal challenge . these statement have be make in the past , include in 2003 under the last Labour Government . we have a long - stand tradition of ensure that right and liberty be protect domestically and of fulfil our international obligation , and we remain committed to that position . our focus be on pass this legislation , which will deter people from enter the country dangerously and illegally . turn to the revise amendment on the implementation of the treaty and the role of the monitoring committee , clause 9 clearly set out that the Bill provision come into force when the treaty enter into force , and the treaty enter into force when the party have complete their internal procedure . amendment 3b confuse the process for implement the treaty with what be require for the Bill provision to come into force . amendment 3b confuse the process for implement the treaty with what be require for the Bill provision to come into force . as I have say , the treaty enhance the role of the monitoring committee , and the monitoring committee will ensure that obligation under the treaty be adhere to in practice . it be always intend for the monitor committee to be independent . maintain the committee ' s independence be an integral aspect of the design of the policy , and Lords amendment 3c risk disturb that independence and impartiality . the Government will ratify the treaty only once we agree with Rwanda that the necessary implementation have take place for both country to comply with the obligation under the treaty . that be the case , there be simply no need for the amendment . despite the refinement make , Lords amendment 6b be still a wreck amendment that seek to reverse the Bill ' s intent . the Bill ' s purpose be to invite Parliament to agree with the assessment that the Supreme Court ' s concern have be properly address . the Bill reflect the fact that Parliament be sovereign and can change domestic law as it see fit . the evidence that we have provide , and the commitment make by our Government and the Government of Rwanda through this internationally bind treaty , show that Rwanda be a safe country , and enable the Bill to deem Rwanda a safe country . as I be sure those who support and will vote for this amendment know , it would render the Bill utterly pointless and would not enable we to create the deterrent that we need to stop the boat and get flight off the ground . will the Minister give way ? I will not . turn to Lords amendment 7b , we know that assess age be inherently difficult , but it be important that the Government take decisive action to deter adult from knowingly claim to be child . there be obvious safeguard risk relate to adult be place in the care system . it be crucial that we take step to safeguard child , and avoid lengthy legal challenge that prevent the removal of those who have be assess to be adult . the amendment would result in those who be to be remove to Rwanda under the Illegal Migration Act 2023 be treat differently from those who be be remove to another country under the same Act . there be simply no justification for that differential treatment . will the Minister give way ? I will not ; I will make some progress . lord amendment 9 undermine provision in exist legislation and be completely unnecessary . it be vital that the Government take step to reduce or remove incentive for individual to enter the country illegally . these illegal practice pose an exceptional threat to public order , risk life and place unprecedented pressure on public service . as I have set out , under article 13 of the treaty , the Government of Rwanda will have regard to information provide relate to any special need that an individual may have as a result of they be a victim of modern slavery . Rwanda will take all necessary step to ensure that these need be accommodate . to that end , the Government have table amendment ( a ) in lieu , which require the Secretary of State to publish an annual report about the operation of the legislation as it relate to modern slavery and human trafficking provision . with that in mind , I invite the House to reject Lords amendment 9 and agree with the amendment in lieu . on Lords amendment 10b , as I have set out , the Government recognise our commitment and responsibility to combat veteran , whether our own or those who show courage by serve alongside we . we will not let they down . once again , I reassure Parliament that once the UK special force and afghan relocation and assistance policy review have conclude , the Government will revisit how the Illegal Migration Act , and provision for removal under exist legislation , will apply to those who be eligible to stay as a result of the review , ensure that these people receive the attention that they deserve . this be a commitment that both Lord Sharpe and I have make on behalf of his Majesty ' s Government . this , the elect House , have vote to give the Bill a second and Third Reading , and vote down each of the Lords amendment . I invite all right hon . and hon . member to stand with the Government in uphold the will of the House of Commons , and to support the Government motion . I call the shadow Minister . it be just over two year to the day since the Rwanda scheme be first announce from the Government Dispatch Box , so it would be remiss of we not to take stock of progress to date . well , hundred of million of pound of taxpayer ' money have be send to the Rwandan Government ; civil servant , court , parliamentarian and journalist have spend countless hour , day and week discuss and write about the scheme ; and not one , not two , but three Home Secretaries have fly down to Kigali . but apart from that , there be not a great deal to report . the boat have keep come , the backlog have keep grow , and the people smuggler be still laugh all the way to the bank . we have have two year of headline - chase gimmick ; two year of pursue a policy that be fundamentally unworkable , unaffordable and unlawful ; two year of flog this dead horse . I be an inveterate optimist , so I truly believe that one day Government Members will come to understand that hard graft and common sense be always more effective than the sugar rush of a tabloid front page , and they will come to accept that they should have adopt Labour ' s comprehensive plan to restore order to our border by redirect the vast amount of money set aside for the Rwandan Government into a new cross - border police unit , and a new security partnership with Europol to smash the criminal gang upstream . analysis conduct by the National Audit Office have reveal that if the Government manage to send 300 asylum seeker to Rwanda , which be just 0 . 5 % of the 60 , 000 people earmark for the scheme , it will cost the british taxpayer a truly staggering £ 2 m per person . it be crystal clear that the scheme be doom to fail on its own term because people who be prepared to risk life and limb crossing continent will not be deter by a 0 . 5 % chance of be send to Rwanda . the mind - boggle cost of the scheme be quite difficult to grasp , so I have do a bit of homework — a bit of research into what else we could get for £ 2 million . my hon . friend the Member for Bermondsey and Old Southwark ( Neil Coyle ) , who be not in his place , get the ball roll during our last debate on the Bill by point out that £ 2 million will get someone five trip to outer space on the Virgin Galactic spacecraft — Madam Deputy Speaker , you look impressed , and suitably so . I have calculate that someone could live for three decade on one of the world ' s most expensive cruise liner . they could charter , for a year , the Lady M yacht , which be , of course , the yacht that belong to the " noble " Baroness Mone — it be her vessel of choice , as some Government Members may be aware — or they could even fly the Prime Minister ' s favour helicopter to Australia and back . speak of the Prime Minister , I notice that during the Easter recess , he find time to offer his service as a financial adviser to small business via Zoom . I do not know about you , Madam Deputy Speaker , but I have concern about a guy who be happy to pump billion of pound into a fail fiasco like this Rwanda scheme offer his service as a financial adviser to unsuspecting member of the public . let we hope that the Financial Conduct Authority will intervene as a matter of urgency . the hon . Gentleman be prove most entertaining , but as this be consideration of Lords amendment , will he get on to deal with the amendment ? I want he to be in order ! order . if the hon . member for Aberavon ( Stephen Kinnock ) be not in order , I would not have allow he to speak . he have be draw some very interesting fact to the attention of the House . I , for one , be likely to explore some of they — but not the yacht . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I always enjoy take intervention from a fellow Welshman , but I feel that the right hon . and learn Member for South Swindon ( Sir Robert Buckland ) be well and truly put in his place by your riposte . will my hon . friend take an intervention from a non - fellow Scotsman ? I will . I be sure that my hon . friend have , like I , marvel at the Government ' s ability to legislate for Rwanda to be a safe country — Lords amendment 2 address that . will he join I in urge the Government to use their amazing power to legislate to ensure that carbon dioxide emission no long cause global warming , and sugar , fat and alcohol no long damage human health ? I be sure that those on the Government Benches would be delighted to oblige . perhaps we could also legislate to say that the sky be green and the grass be blue , or that the Welsh rugby team actually win the last six Nations — I would love to pass a law to secure that objective . let we be clear : not one of the amendment before we prevent flight to Rwanda take off . on the contrary , they simply seek to put in the Bill what minister have previously promise — namely , they would ensure that the Bill be lawful , that the Government would protect the most vulnerable , and that we would stand by those brave Afghans who support military effort . let I address each amendment directly . I will focus first on Lords amendment 10b , in the name of the noble Lord Browne . we have speak a lot about the unworkability and unaffordability of this policy , but we should also talk about the unethical and frankly un - british nature of deport halfway across the world to Rwanda those Afghans who have support Britain ' s defence and diplomatic effort . that be not operation Warm welcome ; it be operation cold shoulder . we should have see it come , give that for an entire year the Prime Minister halt flight from neighbour Pakistan for Afghans who have be grant resettlement right in the UK under the afghan relocation and assistance policy , and restart they only when the Pakistani Government threaten to send those Afghans back across the border to meet their fate at the hand of the Taliban . we owe a debt of honour to the Afghans who be loyal to Britain and put their life on the line , and of course , our moral duty be most strongly feel by british armed force personnel who work alongside they . in fact , this weekend , 13 senior military figure sign a letter to the Sunday Telegraph warn that " ' any brave man and woman who have fight alongside our armed force or serve the UK Government overseas ' must be exempt from removal to Rwanda . " the signatory include former Chiefs of the Defence Staff , a former Secretary - General of NATO and a former Deputy Supreme Allied Commander Europe . they warn that if this exemption be not grant , it will do " grave damage to our ability to recruit local ally in future military operation " , and explain that they have " see first - hand the enormous courage and dedication show by those who have fight alongside our Armed Forces and serve british interest abroad , often at huge personal risk , and we take personally Britain ' s obligation to honour the debt we owe to that cohort . " those be powerful word indeed . I urge Government Members to join we in support Lords amendment 10b , which seek to prevent that travesty . as the shadow Minister and I know , the key issue be not that ARAP people be come via small boat , but the unbunging of the resettlement scheme . how many space do he envisage we will need to ensure be available for resettlement under that scheme ? a number of people who serve the british defence , development and diplomatic effort have be identify for resettlement , so they should be resettle in the United Kingdom . let we get that bit of the scheme unblocked before we get into speculation about the quantum . the key point be that they have already be accept into the resettlement programme , but be be leave high and dry in Pakistan . my hon . friend be accuse of levity early . this House have so many thing to discuss . there be good , sensible and workable policy to deal with in relation to migration , as he and I know , but this one — the Rwanda scheme — remind I of the Monty Python dead parrot sketch , which he be probably too young to remember . the scheme be a dead parrot ; the soon the Government wake up to the fact that it be dead , the well . my hon . friend be right that so many practical , pragmatic and sensible measure could be take to deal with the crisis in the channel — the Tory small boat chaos — but instead of focus on those sensible and pragmatic measure , we be deal with this white elephant of a programme that will never get anywhere and be cost million of pound of taxpayer ' money and absorb huge amount of our time . I absolutely agree with he on that . lord amendment 9 , in the name of the noble Baroness Butler - Sloss , be also base on a moral imperative , as it would prevent the removal of potential victim of modern slavery to Rwanda until the individual ' s process under the national referral mechanism be complete . it should go without say that modern slavery victim should not be send to Rwanda , and we be disappointed that the Government ' s amendment ( a ) in lieu be a profoundly unserious attempt to reassure the House — not least because we have be here before and know that such promise report be rarely worth the paper they be write on . we on the Labour Benches be also deeply concerned about unaccompanied child be inadvertently send to Rwanda . we therefore support the noble Baroness Lister ' s amendment 7b , which recognise the Government ' s reasoning for reject her previous amendment by this time propose that an age - dispute person who be appeal their decision can be remove to Rwanda only if a local authority have agree and state that that person be not a child . the other Lords amendment all relate to the rule of law , and we support they . they simply articulate principle that minister have say they agree with from the Dispatch Box . the simple question be this : if minister believe that Rwanda be a safe country , why be the Government refuse to support those amendment ? they say that the Bill abide by international law , so why not make that clear on the face of it ? they say that Rwanda be capable of meet its obligation under international law , so let we see the evidence and agree a trust - but - verify mechanism , as set out in the amendment . do my hon . friend agree that although the Bill be inhumane , costly and unworkable — despite the good effort to amend it — the Tories seem resolve to pursue it rather than get to grip with our broken asylum system ? it be just another indication to the country that this Government be unfit to govern . there be a clear choice between the common sense , hard graft and positive international co - operation set out in Labour ' s plan to deal with this issue , and the headline - chase gimmick and empty gesture that be symbolise by the Rwanda policy . politic be about choice ; the Government have take their choice and we have take ours . in that spirit , Lords amendment 1b be a Labour Front - Bench amendment that place a responsibility on the Government to have due regard for its current obligation under domestic and international law . lord amendment 3b and 3c , in the name of the noble Lord Hope , together state that Rwanda may be consider a safe country only if and when the measure set out in the Rwanda treaty have be fully implement and the monitoring committee have establish that that be the case . the Government claim that the measure in the treaty address concern in the Supreme Court ' s recent unanimous ruling , so there be absolutely no reason for Ministers to refuse to accept Lord Hope ' s amendment . finally , Lords amendment 6b , in the name of the noble Baroness Chakrabarti , allow Ministers , official and court to consider whether Rwanda be safe on a case - by - case basis . give that the Government have accept that some appeal will be allow , we see no reason for they to reject this amendment . I hope that colleague from across the House will join Labour in voting for all the amendment . of course , the amendment be no more than an exercise in damage limitation ; the fundamental problem be that this hare - brain Rwanda policy be break all record for be the most unworkable and bad value for money policy in the history of the Home Office . but there be an alternative . in addition to our policy to go after the criminal smuggler gang , we will deliver our backlog clearance plan to get asylum seeker out of expensive asylum hotel by surge decision maker and caseworker to the Home Office , and by create a new return and enforcement unit with 1 , 000 dedicated staff focus on the fast removal of those with no right to be here , include fail asylum seeker and foreign criminal . the Government be fail on all front . despite their misleading boast about progress , the Minister for Legal Migration and the Border , the hon . member for Corby ( Tom Pursglove ) , admit today that there be still almost 300 asylum hotel in operation . they be return 44 % few fail asylum seeker compare with 2010 , when the last Labour Government leave office , and 27 % few foreign criminal . the number of small boat crossing have go up again year on year — January to March figure — and the Government have no plan for the 99 % who can not be send to Rwanda . we need labour ' s plan to smash the criminal smuggler gang , save life in the channel and strengthen our border security . we need labour ' s plan for fast processing , the end of hotel use and the removal of people who have no right to stay in the UK , and we need a Labour Government to deliver a firm , fair and well - manage asylum system that work for Britain . I do not really feel that there be anything terribly useful I can say at this stage — I have hear all this before . the hon . member for Aberavon ( Stephen Kinnock ) , who speak for the opposition , be simply repeat what he have say before . not only that ; it be perfectly apparent that these amendment be just wreck amendment , and the hon . Gentleman have not even address the argument about international law . he know perfectly well — because he can not answer my question on this issue — that we have a dualist system , and if we decide to legislate in our own Parliament , the court themselves will implement that legislation . the real point be this : let we get this Bill do , and let we get the House of Lords to calm down a bit . at the same time , let we wait for what be inevitably go to be another claim and then see the judgment of the Supreme Court on the wording of this Bill , provide that it be clear and unambiguous . that be all I need to say . I may come back again , however , if the Lords insist again on these ridiculous amendment . I call the SNP spokesman . here we be again , debate this outrageous and unworkable Bill . we be no far forward , and the Government will fail to get any further forward , because the Bill be a complete waste of time and money . it be a ruse to get tabloid headline , and at this stage I be not even sure whether the Government have any intention that this plan will work at all , give the incompetence they have show so far . they be scrabble around this week , try to find airline , because not one single responsible air carrier want to be associate with the Government ' s state - sponsor people traffic plan . they have be try to find other country that they can try to send people to ; Armenia , the Ivory Coast , Costa Rica and Botswana might be interested , but far more country rather sensibly tell the Government to go and get raffle . I be not convince that even Rwanda believe this plan will work or that people will be send , because it have go and sell off the housing that it build — that the former Home Secretary , the right hon . and learn Member for Fareham ( Suella Braverman ) , so admire . if the Government do send people , there will not even be the facility to put they in , unless they intend to stack they high as they often do in hotel in this country , treat people as human cargo that they can so easily dispose of . it be absolutely despicable . so far , the Government have send Home Secretaries and civil servant . even the Joint Committee on Human Rights have go to Rwanda , along with some hand - pick journalist , but no asylum seeker — nor be there much prospect of they go . while all this have be go on , dozen of Rwandans have submit asylum claim here in the UK , and there be still concern about Rwanda ' s sponsor of the M23 rebel , who be engage in conflict with their neighbour , the Democratic Republic of the Congo , last month wound UN peacekeeper in the DRC ; the group control road and mining site in that country , and have displace 1 . 7 million people . in the Guardian last week , Vava Tampa question international support for the Kagame regime , say : " the UN , Human Rights Watch and Amnesty be clear that without Rwanda ' s backing , the M23 couldn ' t have kill , rape , torture and displace as many as it have . " I ask the Government why they want to pursue deal with such a regime — it be quite worrying . I turn to the Lords amendment , which I will go through in turn . lord amendment 1 ask that the Government have due regard for " domestic and international law " — that should be a basic element of any legislation that this House wish to pass . the amendment slightly water down the Lords ' previous amendment about " maintain full compliance with domestic and international law " , but clearly , even have due regard for domestic and international law be too much for this Government . that include obligation like the european convention on human right , which be tie up with the Good Friday agreement and the devolution settlement in this country , and international law such as the refugee convention , the UN convention against torture and the UN covenant on civil and political right . why would the Government not want to abide by those international agreement ? on that point , if the UK Government think they can just ignore all the international commitment to which they be already sign up — include one that they help to found , such as the echr — how on earth can they then turn around to other country that might be breach their obligation under international law and say that they should comply with those treaty ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . the hypocrisy go even far than that : this Government expect Rwanda to uphold all of its agreement and law internationally and domestically , while specifically set out to breach their own law and obligation through this legislation . it be absolutely ludicrous . lord amendment 3b and 3c state that Rwanda " will be a safe country when the arrangement provide for in the Rwanda Treaty have be fully implement and for so long as they continue to be so . " that question of how long those arrangement continue to be implement be just as critical as whether Rwanda implement the measure we have just discuss , because through this legislation , the Government be state that Rwanda be safe forever — in perpetuity . nobody can say that of any country in the world at any point , so it be really quite bizarre to legislate specifically that Rwanda , uniquely , be safe forever and ever . it be quite reasonable of the Lords to say , " the Rwanda Treaty will cease to be treat as fully implement if Parliament decide , on the advice of the Monitoring Committee , that the provision of the treaty be no long be adhere to in practice . " there should be a check on that . the Government should not fear that ; if they truly and deeply believe that the agreement will be adhere to , there be surely no harm in scrutinise it . the House of Lords International Agreements Committee have say that the treaty be " unlikely to result in fundamental change in the short term " , and the UK Supreme Court point out in paragraph 87 of its judgment that Rwanda refoule at least six people while the treaty be under negotiation . if that do not raise alarm bell with the Government about Rwanda ' s ability to adhere to the treaty , I do not think anything will . lord amendment 6b deal with domestic law . it be not about international court , foreign court and foreign judge — as if that be a bad thing , and as if we do not send people to sit on those court ourselves — but the integrity of our own court and tribunal , of the UK - base judge and decision maker who the Home Office employ to do their job and who this legislation undermine . the amendment say that " section 2 do not prevent … the Secretary of State or an immigration officer from decide … whether the Republic of Rwanda be a safe country for the person in question or for a group of person to which that person belong " . that be quite reasonable : we should look at the evidence before come to decision . the amendment ask that the court and tribunal be able to do their job , not to ignore the evidence or , as other have describe , to engage in a legal fantasy where they can not look at the evidence — can not see it , can not hear it , and can not speak out about what they know to be true — because that be quite unreasonable . will the hon . Lady give way ? if the hon . Gentleman think that our own domestic judge should not be allow to make decision on these issue , I would be very interested to hear his point . I be go to point out that section 57 of the Immigration Act 2023 , to which the hon . Lady refer , make the perfectly reasonable point that the court must take account of the fact . that be the key question , and I do not hear she say that ; it be something that be indisputable and , in my opinion , unassailable . if there be a question of fact regard age or any other matter that fall within the framework of this amendment , the court should surely be entitle to deal with those fact , but not to deal with the question to which the hon . Lady have just refer . this legislation inhibit the ability to look at fact , and I think that be quite a dangerous road to go down . I do not think that that be really what the Government ought to be do in any circumstance . no matter how much they may wish their will upon the court , they should not be do this in legislation . it be completely wrong . lord amendment 7b , on the age assessment of unaccompanied child , again ask quite reasonably that a relevant authority — a local authority — should have an expert carry out an age assessment on people whom they consider to be child . the Children ' s Society have repeatedly say that it see unaccompanied child be incorrectly assess by immigration official to be adult on arrival in the UK , so I think call for a proper assessment be perfectly reasonable , rather than send child off to Rwanda and then try to retrieve they later . the harm that that could cause be really quite significant . on the Government ' s own figure , 485 child be wrongly assess to be adult in the first six month of 2023 . the Home Office get this wrong quite regularly . the Helen Bamber Foundation have find that , over an 18 - month period , 1 , 300 child be wrongly assess to be adult , the majority be incorrectly assess . so the Government really need to admit that they do get this wrong , and that they should not be send child to Rwanda and then try to retrieve they at some later stage , if — oops — somehow they get it wrong . do it properly , and do the assessment at the beginning , rather than cause young people who have already suffer a huge amount of trauma yet more pain . move to the insistence by the Lords that its amendment 9 , on the removal of victim of modern slavery and human trafficking , be consider again , this be again hugely significant . this go against our obligation on human trafficking , and we should not have a government send away people who have be traffic with a significant risk that they may be re - trafficked and go through yet further trauma , with the impact that this will have on their physical and mental health and on their safety . that be something the Government really ought to be consider . why would they not want to consider the risk of people who have be traffic ? the Modern Slavery and Human Rights Policy and Evidence Centre , lead by the Bingham Centre for the Rule of Law , have do significant work on this , and I would ask the House to consider its evidence about the breach of our obligation that the Government be embark on . I think it be absolutely wrong that they should seek to do this to people who have already be through so much . those be good point because vulnerable people be already be target by the Government , if on a voluntary basis . I recently have a young man in my constituency , with severe health problem , whom the Home Office have try to persuade to go voluntarily to Rwanda , and it be severely traumatise for he . for somebody who have suffer previously in come to the UK and in the experience they have have in their home country , to then have that degree of what they perceive as pressure — and possibly bribery as well , in a sense — be extremely traumatising . if this be the way the Government be go , these amendment be essential . have meet many constituent and other people who have be victim , as the hon . member set out , I know this be devastating for they , when it be already difficult enough to escape from their trafficker , and it be already difficult enough to speak out about this and have their case believe by anybody . article 13 of the Rwanda treaty , which will allow the UK to never conclusively determine whether a potential victim of modern slavery be even a victim , would put the UK in breach of its obligation , under article 4 of the echr and article 10 of the Council of Europe convention on action against trafficking in human being , to identify and assist potential victim of modern slavery and human trafficking . tie this up with the immigration system in the way the Government have do again undermine people ' s right and undermine our obligation as the UK . I absolutely pay tribute to the Modern Slavery and Human Rights Policy and Evidence Centre for the evidence it have send to member . if it be in their inbox , they should please read it before they vote on this Bill , particularly on this amendment . lastly , on the exemption for agent , ally and employee of the UK overseas , it remain the case that many Afghans have come here on small boat because the UK Government scheme have fail . they have fail to protect people , and they have fail to bring in people who serve alongside british force in Afghanistan . they be people who put their trust in the UK to protect they and their family . they put their trust in the UK - US project in Afghanistan , and that trust have be thoroughly breach . I regularly get email from people who feel as though they have be deeply let down by the UK Government . that trust have go , but put this exemption in the Bill would at least give some prospect of there be some degree of trust in the future . if I be in some country that the UK become involved in , the last thing I would want to do be to get involve with UK force , because as soon as the UK ship out , it be , " you ' re on your own — too bad , tough . " it be a death sentence for the people who put themselves forward to help and support UK objective overseas , and the way in which this Government have treat those people and their family be disgraceful . as I have say many time before in this place , during the fall of Afghanistan I have many family live in my constituency who have relative there , and very few of they ever get out . I do not know what happen to they . I do not know if they be dead or alive , and some of their family may not even know that either , but they have be let down by this UK Government . the scheme the Minister talk about have fail because they be not bring people to safety . they have fail on the term that be promise . I seriously doubt at this stage whether they will ever meet the number of people who be suppose to come over and get safety here . at the very least , the Government could have such a recognition in this Bill . at the very least , they could accept an amendment such as this one because they must know that , because Afghans be come in small boat , their scheme and their supposedly safe and legal route have fail . I be not convince that this Bill will be any kind of deterrent . almost 3 , 500 people have cross in small boat this year so far , and it have not deter a single solitary one of they . however , what this have do be to make it incredibly difficult for the people who be now consider inadmissible to the system . I ask the Minister : what be go to happen to they ? we know that the very small — the tiny — proportion of people send to Rwanda , if the Government even end up send any , will be the tip of a massive iceberg of people who be now just swim around in the system with no right . I have constituent come to my surgery who say that they be wait . they can not be deal with and have their asylum claim process , because this Government have deem that they be inadmissible . what happen to they ? where do they live , and how do they continue to exist in this country if the Government will not process their application and will not listen to their claim ? that may have be through human trafficking or modern slavery , they may be people who have be victim of torture or — will the hon . Lady give way ? I be come to the end of my remark . the Government will not even listen to these people ' s story , so what will happen to they and where will they live ? this Government seem to have no consideration for the trauma people have go through , and now they be leave they in immigration limbo forever in this ridiculous , expensive and unworkable system . the asylum system be break , and we know who break it . we know that an independent Scotland would treat people far more humanely than this Government ever will . I be very grateful to the Minister for set out in detail the change and amendment the Government have make , both on the amendment paper and in their approach , in response to the concern raise and point make by many in the early stage of this legislation . I will address the point make about Lords amendment 1b and 7b , and briefly touch on a couple of other point that have arise in the debate and that , certainly from my experience in the world of local government , continue to have a relevance and will need to be address in due course if this be go to take effect in the way that we wish it to . I be a great enthusiast for the european convention on human right , and I think it be important to acknowledge in the context of this debate that , since this House previously consider and debate this particular piece of legislation , there have be a further development in respect of rule 39 interim order . in fact , the various body concern with the operation of that convention , include the Court , have recognise the concern cause to the UK Government and other member state of the ECHR by the way in which those judgment have be hand down . I have confirm that they will be update their procedure to ensure operation of such order will be different in a way that reflect the concern express by many in this House . I see that as evidence that the ECHR remain a live document and also that the concern the UK Government have express be be take seriously . many member will have be slightly alarm by the recent judgment hand down in respect of environmental legislation , and I note that british judge Tim Eicke , whose dissent commentary on that judgment have be publicise widely , set out in detail why many of the issue raise by member of this House in respect of this particular piece of legislation be also relevant in that context — the risk of perceive overreach of develop a live document to the point where it go beyond the level of consent which the original contracting party have in mind and that that remain something that the court need to be alive to . I be very conscious that , because of the way the convention operate in practice , it should be an accountable process — accountable to the Parliamentary Assembly , to the Congress , to the Council of Ministers , and ultimately to the member state . do the hon . Gentleman think it be helpful for the Prime Minister and the former Home Secretary the right hon . and learn Member for Fareham ( Suella Braverman ) and various other on his Benches to continually refer to the European Court of Human Rights as a foreign court ? I know the Prime Minister have make the point that , give that the court be base in Strasbourg , certainly in a technical sense it can be describe as that , but from my perspective , have serve on the Congress , I be very much aware that it be a court of which the UK , partly through its role in the creation of the treaty of London which set up the convention in the first place , have always be an enormous supporter . we need to continue to play a part in ensure it develop in a way in which we would wish to see it develop , through the input that member of this House among other have through the Parliamentary Assembly and the Council of Ministers and that other part of the british political family have through body such as the Congress . I be a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and I be not aware that I be a foreigner , but it have many difficulty and we be miss the essential point . for what it be worth , I support this Bill , but I be concerned that , in the absence of these people who land here be detain , if they be threaten with be deport to Rwanda at some stage in the future , they be simply go to bugger off into the community . order . perhaps the right hon . Gentleman mean that they might disappear into the community . that phrase would be preferable . I be use rather colourful phraseology just to make my point , Madam Deputy Speaker , but I take my tick off . I will forgive the right hon . gentleman on this occasion : they will disappear into the community . I call Mr Simmonds . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and I be grateful to my right hon . friend for highlight that in a way that I be sure many of our constituent would choose to highlight it as well . to finish the point around the convention itself and amendment 1b , as the Minister say at the Dispatch Box , when we can not be certain of a future potential legal challenge it be appropriate that the statement be make as it have be make in respect of this . however , it remain my view , and I think the view of many other , that we have many channel of influence , both diplomatic and political , and that this be a live convention . we know that it be embed in many different part of our constitution — not just the Good Friday agreement , but our withdrawal agreement from the European Union — and therefore our adherence to it remain incredibly important . but because it be a living document it be able to flex and evolve , to recognise that the world we see today — the world of asylum and the international context — be different from the world when the treaty of London be first very strongly champion by Winston Churchill in the 1950 . therefore , I be very much persuade that the Minister be correct in the way he seek to reject these amendment while also acknowledge the spirit and tone behind they . I would like to address some of the issue that arise in amendment 7b . I be again persuade by what the Minister have say about this , but there be a long - stand issue with the way unaccompanied child be treat . the Children Act 1989 , which set up the legal framework , set out in some detail that a child who be not accompany by a person who have parental responsibility for they by operation of law become the responsibility of a local authority . whether or not that local authority go through any process at all to bring that child into the care system formally , for example by seek a care order , it remain the responsibility of the local authority where that child arise to take care of they . if they return later on in early adulthood and be able to make a case that they have be present in that local authority area as a child , they be also entitle to care - leave responsibility from that local authority under the child ( Leaving Care ) Act 2000 . that be significant because it set up a potential conflict between the impact of immigration legislation and the impact of Department for Education and Children Act legislation . we know this have be an issue ; there be at least one other member who represent the same local authority , the London Borough of Hillingdon , which sit in a substantial part of my constituency , and where Heathrow airport mean that it have have very large number of unaccompanied child come in over the year and have be responsible for carry out age assessment , which have often be challenge by those young people and their advocate in a way that can result both in judicial review go one way or another , with significant cost implication to the public purse , and safeguard risk both to child and other they might be with where those may arise . I therefore urge the Minister to ensure that when press the point that the Home Office remain the decision maker as to whether a person be a child or not , and that as far as the law be concern it be a Merton - compliant age assessment that be the gold standard for determine whether a young person be an adult . while it have be widely suggest that we could use scientific method such as x - ray , the fact remain that those provide a very wide age range for a young person , which for the purpose of determine whether they be just under or just over 18 — the relevant issue for the Children Act responsibility — be useless . that be why the Merton - compliant age assessment process be so important . therefore , although I support the Minister ' s view that we need to reject that amendment , we do need to ensure that the process we have in place do not put local authority in an impossible position , where they be judicially review for their failure to provide service that they be oblige to provide under the Children Act or the leave care Act to an individual who have be remove or subject to other immigration control by a decision of the Home Office , because we could certainly open up the prospect of what be , in effect , proxy judicial review to challenge the Government ' s immigration position by use the Children Act or the leave care Act . I want to address two other point that arise , one in respect directly of the amendment and the other in response to a point make by the hon . member for Glasgow Central ( Alison Thewliss ) about what in practice happen to people . it be very welcome that the Government have bring forward what they have to say about the treatment of victim of modern slavery . many of we will have have individual in our constituency who have be affect by that and will know of the impact it have on our local public service , our police force and our local and housing authority in identify people and provide appropriate support , but we be also keen to ensure that , give the progress we have make in this House on that issue , we do not fall back through the impact of other legislation . we will be look closely to ensure that the report that be propose as an alternative to the Lords amendment on that will work in practice as well as the Minister have set out . finally , a number of member have raise the point about what happen in practice . many of we will be conscious that this have a very significant impact on local authority , and this go back to the National Assistance Act 1948 , which state that a local authority must provide support to someone within its area who be destitute , regardless of any other consideration about their status . in practice , that be the reason why local authority will be require to step in and provide emergency temporary accommodation to family with child , in particular where their asylum claim have be refuse but they remain here in the United Kingdom . while the local authority will never be house those people in social housing , because those individual have no entitlement to it , they will be accommodate in hotel , hostel and other type of accommodation , which in turn create additional housing pressure locally . it be incredibly important that we make sure , as the Government have set out , that this system not just work well at make decision early on , but ensure there be effective process so that those who should not be in the United Kingdom be remove , in order that that accommodation and those other service be available for those entitle to be here . rise — order . it will be obvious to the House that we have just over an hour leave for the remainder of this debate . I hope that we do not have to have a time limit , but if speech be about seven minute or so , everyone will have an opportunity to make their point . speech so far have not be too long — they have be perfectly reasonable — but I would like to keep to around seven minute each , please . we be now on the final stage of the legislative journey of the Rwanda scheme announce two year ago , as my hon . friend the Member for Aberavon ( Stephen Kinnock ) say from the Front Bench . what we do know be that £ 370 million be already commit to the Rwanda scheme , no individual have yet be send to Rwanda , and the Rwandan Government reportedly want to pause the scheme after the first tranche of removal . the question of how this policy will meet the Government ' s objective of deter small boat crossing remain pertinent , especially because , as we have hear , a record number of individual have make the dangerous channel crossing in the first three month of this year . I will turn to each of the Lords amendment , but I also say to the hon . member for Stone ( Sir William Cash ) , who be not in his place , that when I go along to the other place to hear the debate on the Bill , I be impress by the debate and the point be raise . to say that the House of Lords need to calm down a bit and that these be ridiculous amendment be do a huge disservice to what the revise Chamber can provide for this part of Parliament . when the House of Lords think we have make mistake and that thing need to be look at again , it give we the opportunity to do that . lord amendment 1b be a modify version of the original Lords amendment 1 . the original would have add a requirement to maintain full compliance with domestic and international law . lord amendment 1b , which the other place have propose in lieu , set out a requirement to have " due regard for domestic and international law . " in move Lords amendment 1b on 20 March , Lord Coaker say : " we have put this forward because the Bill that your Lordships be discuss now explicitly disapplie aspect of domestic law and disapplie aspect of international law . " — [ Official Report , House of Lords , 20 March 2024 ; Vol . 837 , c . 213 . ] as I make plain in the previous debate on Lords amendment , if the Government be so confident that the Rwanda scheme will be fully compliant with domestic and international law , they should have no objection to this amendment . lord amendment 3b and 3c , which relate to treaty implementation and monitor committee , be modify version of the original Lords amendment 2 and 3 respectively . lord amendment 3b , like the original Lords amendment 2 , state that Rwanda " will be a safe country when , and so long as , the arrangement provide for in the Rwanda Treaty have be fully implement and for so long as they continue to be so . " the wording have change slightly . there be no long a reference to the arrangement in the treaty be " adhere to in practice " , but the effect be the same . lord amendment 3c , like the original Lords amendment 3 , set out what full implementation should look like and would give the independent monitoring committee a significant role . unlike the original Lords amendment , there be no requirement on the Secretary of State to consult the monitoring committee every three month . instead , Lords amendment 3c state that the treaty " will cease to be treat as fully implement if Parliament decide , on the advice of the Monitoring Committee , that the provision of the treaty be no long be adhere to in practice . " in move Lords amendment 3c , Lord Hope of Craighead say that it be an attempt to respond to a point make by the right hon . and learn Member for Kenilworth and Southam ( Sir Jeremy Wright ) in the Commons debate on 18 March . he say that " my Amendment 3c in lieu do my good to make it clear that the authority lie with Parliament and not with the committee . " — [ Official Report , House of Lords , 20 March 2024 ; Vol . 837 , c . 227 . ] the Home Affairs Committee have argue that the House of Commons should be give an opportunity to debate the treaty prior to ratification , in the light of how critical its implementation be to the Rwanda policy . give that this opportunity to scrutinise the treaty be deny , Lords amendment 3b would at least provide some reassurance to Members that its provision will be implement and applicable to anyone relocate to Rwanda . lord amendment 3c would enable Parliament to review the treaty ' s implementation and respond to fact on the ground if they change . these Lords amendment speak to the practicality of implement the Rwanda policy and how , sadly , too often the Government have seek to skate over they . take the airline issue . in order for this policy to function , the Government must be able to transport people to Rwanda , yet minister have still not confirm that they have secure an airline , with Rwanda ' s state - own airline reportedly decline a request to use its plane . then there be the issue of where migrant will live if they be send to Rwanda . recent report suggest that the majority of home on a new rwandan housing estate initially earmark for migrant relocate from the UK have be sell to local buyer . those be not moot point ; they be the kind of practical detail that will determine whether the scheme work , and work safely . in the absence of prior scrutiny of the treaty , the House of Commons must be allow to assess its implementation and act on the finding . lord amendment 6b relate to legal challenge . it be a modify version of the original Lords amendment 6 and , like the original , it would delete clause 4 of the Bill , allow much wide ground for legal challenge . like the original amendment , it state that a court or tribunal may prevent or delay the removal of a person to Rwanda , but unlike the original , it add " provide such prevention or delay be for no long than strictly necessary for the fair and expeditious determination of the case . " the Home Affairs Committee have always recognise that the opportunity for appropriate legal challenge be a necessary part of an effective and fair asylum system . that be why the amendment have significant merit . lord amendment 7b be a modify version of the original Lords amendment 7 . the original amendment would have disapplie section 57 of the Illegal Migration Act 2023 in its entirety , mean that people claim to be child could appeal against a decision that they be over 18 . lord amendment 7b instead would insert a new subsection into section 57 of the Illegal Migration Act . in move Lords amendment 7b , Baroness Lister explain : " this amendment in lieu be much more modest and in effect meet the Commons ' formal objection to the original amendment . it would permit an age - dispute child to be remove to Rwanda with a pende challenge on a limited basis , but only if a proper age assessment have first be carry out by a local authority . " — [ Official Report , House of Lords , 20 March 2024 ; Vol . 837 , c . 252 . ] during its channel crossing inquiry , the Home Affairs Committee hear example of safeguard process fail across various part of the asylum system , include case of child be mistaken for adult . that be why I believe the Government must look again at this amendment . lord amendment 9 on modern slavery would add a new clause to the Bill to create an exception relate to the removal of victim of modern slavery and human trafficking . the new clause state : " a person with a positive reasonable ground decision from the National Referral Mechanism … must not be remove from the United Kingdom on the basis of the Rwanda Treaty until a conclusive ground decision have be make . " it also state : " a person with a positive conclusive ground decision … must not be remove … without a decision - maker consider whether such removal would negatively affect the physical health , mental health or safety of that person " . the Government have propose amendment ( a ) in lieu of Lords amendment 9 . it require the Secretary of State to publish an annual report about the operation of the Act " as it relate to the modern slavery and human trafficking provision in article 13 of the Rwanda Treaty " . the Home Affairs Committee ' s recent report on human trafficking express our concern that the Government be prioritise irregular migration issue at the expense of tackle human trafficking . human trafficking be not an immigration offence ; it be an exploitation offence , and the two must not be conflate . lord amendment 9 would provide a vital safeguard for victim of human trafficking , and I hope the Government will look at that . finally , Lords amendment 10b be a modify version of Lords amendment 10 . like the original amendment , it would provide an exemption for people who support our armed force overseas or who have otherwise be agent or ally of the UK overseas . lord amendment 10b include a new subsection , which state : " a person seek to rely upon the exemption … must give the Secretary of State notice as soon as reasonably practicable to allow prompt verification of available record " . in move Lords amendment 10b , Lord Browne of Ladyton say : " we be tell that man who brave death , court injury and be force into exile as a result of assist our Armed Forces in fight the Taliban be to be punish for arrive here by irregular route — even where , owe to wrongful refusal on our part or possible malfeasance on the part of the Special Forces , they have be compel to take these route in the first place . " — [ Official Report , House of Lords , 20 March 2024 ; Vol . 837 , c . 254 . ] we know that family from Afghanistan who help our armed force and subsequently flee to Pakistan be at imminent risk of deportation back to Taliban - control Afghanistan . that be despite ministerial reassurance that a route for eligible separated afghan family to come to the UK would be establish . it seem to I — and to many other — that the UK have a moral duty to offer sanctuary to those brave Afghans who put their life on the line to support our troop and now face persecution as a consequence . the idea that we would attempt to outsource this duty be shameful . the Lords amendment before we would go some way to provide safeguard and assurance that the UK will uphold its moral and legal obligation in the implementation of the Rwanda policy . I will try to beat the extraordinary record of my hon . friend the Member for Stone ( Sir William Cash ) , who speak for a princely two minute . I be grateful to he for set that new record — his personal good , I think . I will deal with the amendment in turn , but first return to the theme of clause 1 , which I have previously warm to , and which I think be an abomination . it be exactly the bad sort of legislative drafting , and we should be discourage it . at well , it be declaratory legislation , which be never helpful , and at worst it set up all sort of potential legal argument . the attempt by the Lords to amend it probably make the situation even bad , which be why I will not support Lords amendment 1 . I return to the Chamber especially to hear my right hon . and learn Friend , and I be delighted to hear what he just say . at last , he have see the light . I have always walk in sunlight ; it be other who have perhaps walk through a veil of shadow . we will draw a veil over that . in the spirit of my hon . friend ' s helpful intervention , I have mention to he that I think that clause 5 be unnecessary . it be even more unnecessary now , because the reform that I refer to in a previous speech on the Bill about rule 39 have now be clarify by practice direction . the threshold that the European Court will apply will be , again , a much high one . I therefore think that the occasion where we could see it invoke in the Rwanda case would be vanishingly small — in fact , non - existent . it seem to I that any harm that might be judge to have be cause be clearly revocable in the form of a return of those individual from Rwanda . that , frankly , should have be the position the last time round ; the reform of the European Court make that even clear . that make a powerful general point , which support the excellent argument make by my hon . friend the Member for Ruislip , Northwood and Pinner ( David Simmonds ) about the direction of travel of the Court . I strongly agree with he about the recent climate change decision , which be a wrong turn . we should be very much go back to fundamental human right , and not talk about socioeconomic right or try to make everything into some form of right . surely it be well to legislate for statutory duty and obligation by public body , rather than create nebulous right that then become the province of the court . Herein lie the difficulty that we still encounter in the second batch of amendment — Lords amendment 3b and 3c — which I be still minded to support . whether we like it or not , the Supreme Court assess evidence and substitute its own view for that of the decision maker . the noble Lord Howard of Lympne make a powerful speech in the other place about the wisdom or otherwise of go down that road . I agree with a lot of what the noble Lord say . I do not like it when I see court of high record in effect relitigate matter of evidence , which be what the Supreme Court do , but that be the situation that we have . that be why the Bill have come forward , and my abide concern about deeming provision , which I accept be not unprecedented , be that they should match reality . that be why I press my right hon . and learn Friend the Minister to answer some of the point make in the other place about the progress be make by the Government of Rwanda , not only in legislate for its treaty obligation — it have a monist system , so the treaty be already in force — but in carry out the obligation it agree to in the treaty , namely the reform of its appeal system and the use of train adviser . those be all measure that would go a huge way to reassure not just I but any court that might be seize of this matter in the near future that all be proceed well . the Scottish Lord Advocate seem to concede in the other place that there need to be full treaty implementation before the treaty be ratify . if that be the case , we be argue over little . that be why I still commend those amendment . I will now deal with the next question , which relate to the argument again trenchantly put by my hon . friend the Member for Ruislip , Northwood and Pinner . I agree with he about the danger of proxy judicial review base on the Children Act 1989 and care legislation . we need to take great care about that . like he , I be not persuade that there be merit in support the Lords amendment on that issue . I be also encourage — though still concerned — about the modern - day slavery position . I be encourage that here alone in the Government ' s response to the Lords amendment , they have come up with an amendment in lieu : amendment ( a ) to Lords amendment 9 . I be prepared to support that , bear in mind the sensitive and important nature of this legislation and the need to avoid we ride a coach and horse through the progress we have make , in term of this country ' s leadership on modern - day slavery . I be prepared to give the Minister the benefit of the doubt and support the amendment in lieu . my abide concern remain for a class of people who serve our country , who endure great danger in Afghanistan , who still find themselves in danger in a third country — namely Pakistan — and who may well fall foul of an entirely unintended consequence as a result of this legislation , however well intentione it may be . that be why I be still not persuade on Lords amendment 10b . the Government have move on that — we be in an iterative process with the Lords message — and I agree with the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) , who remind we of the invaluable role that the deliberative Chamber have in make sure that legislation be test and up to the level of event . we should not ignore what be say in the Lords about the evidential situation in Rwanda . that be the reality , and that be why when we pass legislation here , we should do everything we can to avoid legislative fiction . it be not good law . it create a glass jaw , which can be break by litigation and by judicial challenge , and we find the court once again back in a position where I do not think any of we , least of all conservative constitutionalist , want to see they . let we legislate with care on this matter , and let we get it right . rise — Order . I remind the House that due to the pressure on time , the debate on hospice will not take place tonight . I know that there be a lot of interest in that , so we hope that it will be reprogramme as soon as possible . I also remind everybody that we be try not to impose a time limit , but Madam Deputy Speaker do encourage seven - minute contribution and no more , so please tailor your speech accordingly . I rise in support of the Lords amendment , which I will vote to retain this evening . I will keep my comment brief . I want to express the need for the House to support Lords amendment 6b . it have already be say that under the Government ' s preferred wording for clause 4 , a court still can not consider the risk of refoulement by Rwanda in contravention of any of its international obligation , even though that be the very risk highlight by the UK Supreme Court . the amendment would reinstate the protection that the Government wish to remove . it would omit clause 4 and replace it with a clause that seek to restore the ability of decision maker to consider whether Rwanda be a safe country . it would restore the jurisdiction of domestic court and tribunal to grant interim relief — a temporary injunction prevent a removal . during the most recent Lords consideration , the previous version of amendment 6b , which be reject by this House , be change . it now add the stipulation that any interim relief be for " no long than strictly necessary for the fair and expeditious determination of the case . " the Member who table the amendment in the other House , Baroness Chakrabarti , say that it be a " significant concession " and a " genuine legislative olive branch " to the Executive . the Executive should accept that it be an improvement to the Bill and that , rather than neuter the power of decision maker or the court , it would allow for well decision making in the asylum process . it remain my firm view that the Bill be an affront to international law , human right and the rule of law more widely . it set a dangerous precedent to other nation who wish to ignore the law , cause harm and demonise and exploit vulnerable people who be in desperate need . my hon . friend will be aware that many people all over Europe , particularly in the Council of Europe , have express grave concern about this piece of legislation , which outsource our international obligation under all aspect of humanitarian law . if we pass this legislation , many other will follow , and Europe will turn its back on refugee problem that , often , it have help to create . I fully agree that the Bill set a dangerous precedent . I be pleased to say that the disgracefulness of this legislation be recognise by the Welsh Government , who have withhold legislative consent on similar draconian piece of legislation and describe this Bill as cruel , inhumane , unworkable and unethical . it set a horrific precedent for other country to follow . I be so proud that we be look to establish Wales as a nation of sanctuary , where we welcome , understand and celebrate the unique contribution that asylum seeker flee horrific situation can make to our country of Cymru . the Bill be an assault on our check and balance , and our scrutiny of power . quite frankly , it be unamendable and should be throw out wholesale , but give that that be unlikely to happen , in a true attempt to make a bad Bill less bad , I will support amendment 6b and the other amendment before the House this evening . I rise to support the amendment from the other place that the Government be seek to overturn this evening . the mass migration of people — refugee , or those flee from the consequence of climate change , seek a well life for themselves or flee from war and persecution — be a huge and serious global problem , and this Bill be a deeply unserious response to it . the Bill have become a byword for conservative incompetence , waste of public money and , at time , deep and unpleasant cruelty . the Minister do not take any intervention , as be his entire right , basically because he suggest that he have hear all this before . the hon . member for Stone ( Sir William Cash ) say more explicitly that this debate be all about repetition . too right it be all about repetition : if the Government keep come back here with ridiculous legislation , we will keep oppose it . the Lords be well within their right . I passionately believe in the democratisation of the House of Lords ; nevertheless , this legislation be not in the Government ' s manifesto at the last general election , and the House of Lords have every right to seek to amend and to scrutinise it . the amendment be hardly deeply radical and shocking . lord amendment 1b ask that the Government and this legislation have " due regard for domestic and international law . " be that colossally revolutionary ? no , it be not . the fact that the Government have a problem with have due regard for international or domestic law be deeply problematic to I , as it should be to most people who would consider themselves to be conservative . there be a variety of amendment on safety — amendment 3b , 3c and 6b allude to that and be all important , and I support they all . as have be say by other , it be a nonsense for this Government or any Government to seek to try to make something so just by say that it be . we have hear many colourful example of other thing we could just will to be the case : I declare Blackburn Rovers back in the premier league , and Chris Sutton and Alan Shearer both back in their 20 . that be not how the world work . if the Government now believe that they have evidence to suggest that Rwanda be a safe place , fair enough ; they should present the evidence to the court . that be how a normal constitutional conservative or democrat of any other kind should behave . lord amendment 9 talk about protect victim and potential victim of modern slavery . the former Prime Minister , the right hon . member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) , be rightly proud of the modern slavery legislation , and this Government should retain some pride in that . the amendment would not prevent the Rwanda programme from take place ; it would just prevent those people who be potentially at risk of modern slavery from be part of that deportation . there be no reasonable justification for any reasonable Government to object to amendment 9 and 10b . like other right hon . and hon . member , I have speak to people who escape Afghanistan — people who help the police and UK armed force against the Taliban , but be leave behind . the only way they could seek safety be via irregular route and , eventually , by cross the channel and end up in the United Kingdom . amendment 10b would allow the individual I be think of , who I meet in Barrow a few month ago — he have be well serve by my neighbour , the hon . member for Barrow and Furness ( Simon Fell ) — the right to be here and not to be remove . this be about Britain do the right thing and maintain its obligation to people who put their life on the line to protect we and our force . I say that this as a deeply unserious Bill to deal with a massively serious problem . the least serious thing that the Minister say today be that the Bill constitute any form of deterrence . the simple fact be that if the Government get their own way and everything go absolutely perfectly , one in every 200 asylum seeker here might just get send to Rwanda . what nonsense ! if someone flee the murderous tyrant Isaias Afwerki in Eritrea because they would be conscript to murder their own people , and cross the hellhole that be Libya , go across the Mediterranean — for pity ' s sake — and the rest of Europe , they would then be face with cross a relatively small body of water to get to the United Kingdom and a 0 . 5 % chance of be send to Rwanda . the idea that that deter anyone — who be the Minister try to kid ? this be a ridiculous waste of money . the money spend on Rwanda so far could have do many thing , include employ more than 6 , 000 caseworker to help remove those people who be not genuine asylum seeker . that would actually be a deterrent . instead , we have this nonsense . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I have well not , because I be take up more time , although I be sure I would have agree with whatever the hon . Gentleman would have say ! I will simply finish with this . this be a Bill riddle with pretence : the pretence above all that it would be a deterrence to anybody . it be a ridiculous waste of taxpayer ' money and deeply cruel . if Rwanda be a safe place , it will deter no one from come here and then be send there . if it be an unsafe place , no decent Government would ever propose to send anyone to it . they can not have it both way ; they have it neither . the Bill cast a shadow over the reputation of this place and over our country as one where the rule of law be value and respect . it be a matter of grave concern that the Government seem determined to ignore the many legal expert and human right organisation that have voice serious and fundamental concern about the Bill . as Lord McDonald of Salford , a Cross - Bench peer and former permanent secretary at the Foreign Office , set out clearly in the press over the weekend , the Bill declare as fact that Rwanda be safe enough to provide shelter for vulnerable people flee persecution in their home country and that not only must british court accept that Rwanda be safe ; they can not question that assertion even in the light of new evidence that Rwanda may no long be safe . surely all of we in this place know how quickly political change can arise in any state . it be nonsensical for the Government to make such a declaration about the safety of Rwanda , but to do so when the impact on vulnerable people have the potential to be so severe and affect their fundamental human right and their safety be irresponsible and reckless . Amnesty International UK be among those urge the Government to drop this divisive and dangerous piece of legislation . it have call the Bill an affront to international law , human right and the rule of law more widely . it warn that , if pass , it will : leave the UK in serious conflict with its international human right obligation ; send a dangerous signal that other nation be free to show similar disdain for their obligation under international law ; and harm people who be powerless , vulnerable to demonisation , and readily and cruelly exploit . the Law Society describe the Bill as " flawed " and say that it undermine important british value such as the rule of law and protection for victim , damage the UK ' s constitutional balance , and will ultimately prove unworkable , while cost the UK taxpayer a great deal of money . it also highlight research which suggest that 61 % of people think the Government should either accept some amendment to the Rwanda policy or scrap it all together . Liberty describe the Bill as " a constitutionally extraordinary piece of legislation " , add that " in several place " its " provision advance … into some potentially dangerous position . " for a Government to get to the point of try to put through legislation that human right expert describe as " potentially dangerous " be truly shocking . why be it that the Government think they can ride roughshod over international law and human right ? the amendment we be consider today would , among other thing : require the Government to give due regard to domestic and international law , a most important principle that no one could dispute ; allow Ministers , official and court to consider whether Rwanda be safe on a case - by - case basis ; and remove the risk of unaccompanied child be inadvertently send to Rwanda . lord amendment 6b , for example , would allow the court or tribunal to grant " an interim remedy that prevent or delay , or that have the effect of prevent or delaying , the removal of the person to the Republic of Rwanda , provide such prevention or delay be for no long than strictly necessary for the fair and expeditious determination of the case . " surely any reasonable Government would want to ensure it have the power to do that ? there be still time for the Government to drop this horrendous Bill . I urge they to do so . I also urge all member across the House who care about the rule of law , our international reputation , and the seriousness with which we should address our international responsibility , to support the amendment from the other place and vote against the Government ' s motion tonight . the danger to any nation whose Government seek to put themselves above the law and the court be clear . the late Tony Benn put it well when he say that how government treat refugee be an indication of how they would treat their own citizen if they think they could get away with it . the Government ' s contempt for the people of the UK be reveal by the assault on the rule of law that the Bill represent . it be also self - evident that a country do not become a safe destination just because a government declare it so . Human Rights Watch ' s late analysis of Rwanda be clear that " repression of free speech , arbitrary detention , ill - treatment , and torture " remain widespread . the noble Baroness Chakrabarti ' s amendment be an attempt to remove one of the most damaging aspect of the Bill , and restore the primacy of law above the whim and ambition of politician with regard to asylum application , and to prevent the Government from simply declare , blanket - fashion , that Rwanda be safe because they wish it to be and want to deport those flee terrible danger who reach our shore — include , let we not forget , child . by deny access to a court to challenge the safety of Rwanda , the Bill be not compatible with the UK ' s international obligation . it shame our country . as I have say before , the only real solution to this malignant and discriminatory Bill be to scrap it all together . at the very least , its bad aspect must be mitigate . that include the need to restore the jurisdiction of the domestic court in relation to the safety of Rwanda , the power to grant interim injunction , and at the very least the ability to look at matter on a case - by - case basis . I therefore support Lords amendment 6b and all other amendment from the other place . I urge all hon . and right hon . member to do the same . follow John McDonnell , with the leave of the House , the Minister will respond . I only want to make four brief point , which be base on my experience in my own constituency . at the height of the number of asylum seeker be place in hotel , I think I have the large number — I think I still have . I have 2 , 500 asylum seeker in my constituency . I welcome that ; I welcome they into our community . our community in Hayes and Harlington have always rise to support people in need , and I be proud of the local community . there be four point I want to raise from the lesson of deal with those asylum seeker , tour around the hotel and deal with casework . in fact , one of the hotel be next to my constituency office . one point be the point make by the hon . member for Westmorland and Lonsdale ( Tim Farron ) : these be desperate people — desperate people — and they will not be deter from come here , have experience what they have experience back in their home country and the way in which they have travel here . give the desperate circumstance they be in , in both instance , they will not be deter by this legislation . they know , as we do , that this be a political stunt rather than anything else . I thank my right hon . friend for give way on that point . it have be my privilege to visit Calais on a number of occasion over the past few year and I have have many conversation with people there . they be desperate ; they be poor ; they be hungry ; they be homeless ; they be victim of war and human right abuse ; and they be be treat as though they be enemy of the whole community here . they be not . they be people try to survive in a very difficult world , and our message seem to be the opposite of all the humanitarian law that have be pass into common parlance over the past 70 year . the other lesson I have learn from meet a wide range of asylum seeker — and this , in a sense , follow on from what my right hon . friend have say — relate to the skill they can bring to our country , and how desperate they be to make a contribution . all they want be for their case to be process , because the vast majority , even those detain in the two detention centre in my constituency , will win their case and be receive into the community . their problem be that the processing situation mean they can not travel here through the normal processing arrangement , and when they do get here they be have to wait for up to two year just to have their case hear . I do not think that the provision in the Bill will deter desperate people from come here in this way . my second point concern the amendment relate to the assessment of child . the hon . member for Ruislip , Northwood and Pinner ( David Simmonds ) , who be not present now , mention I because we both represent the London Borough of Hillingdon , which have accept more unaccompanied child than any other borough because of its proximity to Heathrow . we have have a problem with age assessment , but it be not the problem that the medium home in on , which be elderly people be assess as child ; it be the other way round . child be be force through a process that can be very demeaning and can have an impact on their mental health , and then be eventually find to be child , as all the statistic demonstrate . it be a brutal system . all that the amendment would do be ensure that assessment be carry out by those who be experience in the process , namely local authority . my third point be connect with my experience of asylum seeker in my constituency . it relate to Afghans who have come here after work alongside our own military personnel in Afghanistan and be let down dramatically by our Government . they have be leave in Afghanistan with their family in a desperate plight , often have to go from house to house to hide and , in do so , recognise that they be put a family at risk . some have be advise to get to the near border , but , whether it be the border with Iran or the border with Pakistan , they will be send back . however , if they can break through that system and get here , they be treat almost like criminal , although many have put their life at risk in support this country . the Minister say today that a review of the scheme be under way , and that that will be take into account . the review appear to be the solution , and it need to be undertake immediately , but while it be go on , may I urge the Government to exempt the people who have serve we in Afghanistan from this process ? otherwise , we will be send to Rwanda people to whom I think we owe some loyalty , and who have experience traumatic danger to their life while serve we . that bring I to my final point . this morning I hear a Conservative MP on the radio justify the overriding of domestic law and the court themselves as if it be some rebalancing between the Executive and the court . it be not a rebalancing ; it be ride roughshod over the system of law that we have in this country , which involve respect for the decision of the court . let I issue a warning to the Government and to conservative Members : this set a precedent in place an awful lot of power in the hand of the Executive . just think what a Government with a huge majority could do in use that precedent in the future ! the unbalancing that be happen at the moment place the ultimate choice between reality and unreality in the Government ' s hand , and people will live to regret set that precedent if we be not very , very careful . this be a rubbish Bill , and it should be throw out . I congratulate those in the other place on do their good to bring some sense to it , but regrettably we will not be able to throw it out . the good we can do be vote for the amendment tonight and send a message back to the Lords : they should keep fighting , because at least they have some sense of the reality of what people seek asylum in this country be experience . with the leave of the House , Mr Deputy Speaker . I open the debate by say that we be not quite at the point of complete each other ' s sentence , but perhaps we be there now . my hon . friend the Member for Stone ( Sir William Cash ) hint that I might be in danger of repeat myself , so I will ensure that I keep my remark to the point . I thank all member for their contribution . as always , I thank the hon . member for Aberavon ( Stephen Kinnock ) for the way in which he conduct himself ; he remind we that he be an inveterate optimist , as perhaps those sit on the Labour Benches have to be . it be fair to say that this have be a good - natured debate , despite some uncharacteristic heckling from the shadow Secretary of State , the right hon . member for Normanton , Pontefract and Castleford ( Yvette Cooper ) . I be gently chide by the hon . member for Westmorland and Lonsdale ( Tim Farron ) for not give way , but I be pleased that I do not give way to the hon . member for Brent North ( Barry Gardiner ) , not least because he say that his intervention relate to Lords amendment 2 , which do not appear on the amendment paper — it be not on the list — and be not be debate . as always , I thank the hon . member for Glasgow Central ( Alison Thewliss ) for her contribution . she will be pleased to know that we disagree again , which will reassure she , but I be sure that her campaign will continue . my hon . friend the Member for Ruislip , Northwood and Pinner ( David Simmonds ) make some serious point , as always . on his point about the two local authority — this be also relevant to the point make by the right hon . member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) — I recently meet the leader of Hillingdon Council , Councillor Ian Edwards , and we discuss some of the issue and pressure . I be very grateful to my hon . friend the Member for Ruislip , Northwood and Pinner for his contribution . he tempt I to go down a certain path , which be unnecessary in relation to the ECHR ' s recent judgment . indeed , my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for South Swindon ( Sir Robert Buckland ) also tempt I to go down that path , but I will resist the temptation for the time be . the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee , the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) , mention a desire to debate the treaty . may I gently suggest to she that we have have ample opportunity to debate the treaty , not least as part of the proceeding for this Bill ? may I respond to the point make by my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for South Swindon ? he mention his liking for Lords amendment 3b and 3c , and he ask I what progress have be make . I can reassure he that progress have be make and that the Government will only ratify the treaty once we agree with Rwanda that all necessary implementation be in place for both country to comply with their obligation under it . he also rightly ask , as do other right hon . and hon . member from across the House , about Lords amendment 10b . I merely repeat the point that the Government recognise the commitment and responsibility that come with combat veteran , whether they be our own or those who show courage by serve alongside we . we will not let they down . I invite all right hon . and hon . member to join we in the Aye Lobby . it will allow we to get flight off the ground to disrupt the business model of people smuggler , who be exploit vulnerable people . I be expect several division . question put . Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Graham Brady Jack Brereton Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Alex Burghart Conor Burns Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Gregory Campbell Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Oliver Dowden Jackie Doyle - Price Flick Drummond Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Jeremy Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Mark Jenkinson Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Lia Nici Neil o ' Brien Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey John Penrose Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Gavin Robinson Mary Robinson Andrew Rosindell Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Grant Shapps Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Elizabeth Truss Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Ben Wallace Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Sammy Wilson Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Mike Wood Amanda Solloway Diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Ben Bradshaw Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Nick Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Bambos Charalambous Joanna Cherry Feryal Clark Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Neil Coyle Angela Crawley Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Edward Davey Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Tim Farron Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Colleen Fletcher Richard Foord Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Gill Furniss George Galloway Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Neale Hanvey Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Drew Hendry Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Gen Kitchen Peter Kyle Ben Lake David Lammy Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Simon Lightwood David Linden Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather John McNally Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Conor McGinn Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Taiwo Owatemi Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel John Spellar Keir Starmer Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Wes Streeting Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Alison Thewliss Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Owen Thompson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Andrew Western Tonia Antoniazzi the House divide : Ayes 315 , Noes 250 . question accordingly agree to . resolve , that this House disagree with the Lords in their Amendment 1b . motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 3b and 3c . — ( Michael Tomlinson . ) Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Graham Brady Jack Brereton Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Alex Burghart Conor Burns Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Gregory Campbell Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Oliver Dowden Jackie Doyle - Price Flick Drummond James Duddridge Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Jeremy Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Mark Jenkinson Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Lia Nici Neil o ' Brien Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey John Penrose Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Gavin Robinson Mary Robinson Andrew Rosindell Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Grant Shapps Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Elizabeth Truss Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Ben Wallace Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Sammy Wilson Jacob Young Amanda Solloway Mike Wood Diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Ben Bradshaw Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Nick Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Robert Buckland Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Bambos Charalambous Joanna Cherry Feryal Clark Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Neil Coyle Angela Crawley Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Edward Davey Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Tim Farron Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Colleen Fletcher Richard Foord Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Gill Furniss George Galloway Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Neale Hanvey Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Drew Hendry Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Gen Kitchen Peter Kyle Ben Lake David Lammy Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Simon Lightwood David Linden Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather John McNally Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Conor McGinn Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Taiwo Owatemi Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel John Spellar Keir Starmer Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Wes Streeting Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Alison Thewliss Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Owen Thompson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Tonia Antoniazzi Andrew Western the House divide : Ayes 317 , Noes 246 . question accordingly agree to . lord amendment 3b and 3c disagree to . More than two hour have elapse since the commencement of proceeding on the Lords message , the proceeding be interrupt ( Programme Order , 18 March ) . the Deputy Speaker put forthwith the Questions necessary for the disposal of the business to be conclude at that time ( Standing Order no . 83 g ) . clause 4 - decision base on particular individual circumstance Motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with the Lords in their Amendment 6B . — ( Michael Tomlinson . ) Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Graham Brady Jack Brereton Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Conor Burns Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Gregory Campbell Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Oliver Dowden Jackie Doyle - Price Flick Drummond James Duddridge Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Jeremy Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Mark Jenkinson Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Lia Nici Neil o ' Brien Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey John Penrose Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Gavin Robinson Mary Robinson Andrew Rosindell Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Grant Shapps Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Elizabeth Truss Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Ben Wallace Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Sammy Wilson Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Mike Wood Amanda Solloway Diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Ben Bradshaw Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Nick Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Bambos Charalambous Joanna Cherry Feryal Clark Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Neil Coyle Angela Crawley Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Edward Davey Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Tim Farron Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Colleen Fletcher Richard Foord Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Gill Furniss George Galloway Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Neale Hanvey Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Drew Hendry Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Gen Kitchen Peter Kyle Ben Lake David Lammy Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Simon Lightwood David Linden Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather John McNally Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Conor McGinn Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Taiwo Owatemi Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel John Spellar Keir Starmer Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Wes Streeting Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Alison Thewliss Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Owen Thompson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Andrew Western Tonia Antoniazzi the House divide : Ayes 319 , Noes 249 . question accordingly agree to . resolve , that this House disagree with the Lords in their Amendment 6b . after clause 4 - age assessment of unaccompanied child Motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with the Lords in their amendment 7b . — ( Michael Tomlinson . ) Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Graham Brady Jack Brereton Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Conor Burns Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Gregory Campbell Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Oliver Dowden Jackie Doyle - Price Flick Drummond James Duddridge Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jane Hunt Jeremy Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Mark Jenkinson Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Lia Nici Neil o ' Brien Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey John Penrose Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Gavin Robinson Mary Robinson Andrew Rosindell Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Grant Shapps Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Elizabeth Truss Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Ben Wallace Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Sammy Wilson Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Amanda Solloway Mike Wood Diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Ben Bradshaw Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Nick Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Bambos Charalambous Joanna Cherry Feryal Clark Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Neil Coyle Angela Crawley Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Edward Davey Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Tim Farron Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Colleen Fletcher Richard Foord Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Gill Furniss George Galloway Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Neale Hanvey Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Drew Hendry Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Gen Kitchen Peter Kyle Ben Lake David Lammy Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Simon Lightwood David Linden Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather John McNally Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Conor McGinn Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Taiwo Owatemi Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel John Spellar Keir Starmer Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Wes Streeting Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Alison Thewliss Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Owen Thompson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Tonia Antoniazzi Andrew Western the House divide : Ayes 319 , Noes 249 . question accordingly agree to . resolve , that this House disagree with the Lords in their Amendment 7b . after clause 5 - removal of victim of modern slavery and human trafficking Motion make , and question put , that this House insist on its disagreement with the Lords in their Amendment 9 but propose additional Amendment ( a ) to the Bill in lieu of that Amendment . — ( Michael Tomlinson . ) Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Graham Brady Jack Brereton Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Conor Burns Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Gregory Campbell Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Oliver Dowden Jackie Doyle - Price Flick Drummond James Duddridge Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Jeremy Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Mark Jenkinson Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Lia Nici Neil o ' Brien Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey John Penrose Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Gavin Robinson Mary Robinson Andrew Rosindell Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Grant Shapps Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Elizabeth Truss Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Ben Wallace Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Sammy Wilson Jeremy Wright Mike Wood Amanda Solloway Diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Ben Bradshaw Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Nick Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Bambos Charalambous Joanna Cherry Feryal Clark Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Neil Coyle Angela Crawley Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Edward Davey Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Tim Farron Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Colleen Fletcher Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Gill Furniss George Galloway Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Neale Hanvey Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Drew Hendry Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Gen Kitchen Peter Kyle Ben Lake David Lammy Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Simon Lightwood David Linden Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Rachael Maskell Keir Mather John McNally Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Taiwo Owatemi Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel John Spellar Keir Starmer Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Wes Streeting Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Alison Thewliss Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Owen Thompson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Andrew Western Tonia Antoniazzi the House divide : Ayes 320 , Noes 246 . question accordingly agree to . resolve , that this House insist on its disagreement with the Lords in their Amendment 9 but propose Amendment ( a ) to the Bill in lieu of that Amendment . after clause 5 - exemption for agent , ally and employee of the UK Overseas Motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with the Lords in their amendment 10b . — ( Michael Tomlinson . ) Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Graham Brady Jack Brereton Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Alex Burghart Conor Burns Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Oliver Dowden Jackie Doyle - Price Flick Drummond James Duddridge Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Jeremy Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Mark Jenkinson Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Lia Nici Neil o ' Brien Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey John Penrose Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Mary Robinson Andrew Rosindell Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew Selous Grant Shapps Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Elizabeth Truss Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Ben Wallace Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Amanda Solloway Mike Wood Diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Ben Bradshaw Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Nick Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Robert Buckland Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Gregory Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Bambos Charalambous Joanna Cherry Feryal Clark Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Neil Coyle Angela Crawley Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Edward Davey Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Tim Farron Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Colleen Fletcher Richard Foord Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Gill Furniss George Galloway Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Neale Hanvey Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Drew Hendry Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Gen Kitchen Peter Kyle Ben Lake David Lammy Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Simon Lightwood David Linden Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather John McNally Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Taiwo Owatemi Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Gavin Robinson Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Jim Shannon Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel John Spellar Keir Starmer Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Wes Streeting Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Alison Thewliss Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Owen Thompson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Tonia Antoniazzi Andrew Western the House divide : Ayes 312 , Noes 253 . question accordingly agree to . Lords amendment 10b disagree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order No . 83H ( 2 ) ) , that a Committee be appoint to draw up reason to be assign to the Lords for disagree to their Amendments 1b , 3b and 3c , 6b , 7b and 10b ; that Michael Tomlinson , Scott Mann , Dr Kieran Mullan , James Sunderland , Stephen Kinnock , Colleen Fletcher and Alison Thewliss be member of the Committee ; that Michael Tomlinson be the Chair of the Committee ; that three be the quorum of the Committee . that the Committee do withdraw immediately . — ( Robert Largan . ) question agree to . committee to withdraw immediately ; reason to be report and communicate to the Lords . right of Lesbian , Gay , Bisexual and Gender Non - conform Young People Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Robert Largan . ) the subject of this debate have be thrust into the spotlight in recent week . Michael Shellenberger ' s WPATH — World Professional Association for Transgender Health — file report by Mia Hughes be publish on 4 March , swiftly follow last week by Dr Hilary Cass ' s eponymous report . both make it clear that gender identity and sex be completely different thing , but ideological capture have blur the line . in the early 1990 , I be ask a question by a relative who be volunteer for the Samaritans and speak to a transvestite male who be struggle with his mental health . do I , as a gay man , have any advice ? I be bemuse by the question , because the only advice I could muster be that I have absolutely no insight whatsoever into cross - dress behaviour , as most transvestite be heterosexual male . the notion that there be such a thing as an " LGBT person " be ludicrous . homosexuality be an innate sexual orientation centre on one ' s natal sex . I be not a lesbian , bisexual or tran ; I be a gay male . work with other who be same - sex attract on share LGB right have always make sense to I . as I have illustrate , there be a time in the not - too - distant past when heterosexual cross - dresser be confuse with what it mean to be a gay male . there be little evidence of any t in the LGB . as they be then , what we now call gender identity and sex remain completely unconnected concept , and they must not be confuse . I start work in the NHS when I be 19 year old . since then , I have have a responsibility for child safeguarding that continue to this day . in 2019 , I assume that my professional knowledge and academic experience would have be of value to my then political party , the SNP , as it attempt to grapple with gender recognition reform legislation , but I be wrong . I be an SNP candidate and the chair of Fife Pride when I meet my then friend Shirley - Anne Somerville for a coffee to discuss my safeguarding concern about gender recognition reform . in addition to her Cabinet Secretary role in the Scottish Government , she be also cover the equality brief . this be someone I have know for year — someone who know my family . I cover all the basis , emphasise exemplar case such as that of local sex offender Lennon Dolatowski , also know as Katie , who have be accuse of sex offence in Ms Somerville ' s constituency and convict of sexually assault a 10 - year - old in the Kirkcaldy and Cowdenbeath constituency , which I be contest . despite assure I throughout the conversation that she fully understand the concern I raise , Ms Somerville conclude by tell I in no uncertain term that the policy approach be Nicola ' s priority , so I would have to keep my view to myself . in other word , I be be tell to be silent on safeguarding . I tell she that I would not be able to do that — I could not be silent on the matter of safeguard child . soon after that meeting , the attack from the gender - radical wing of the SNP , the Greens , Labour and the Lib Dems begin . since 2019 , and indeed before that , people who have have concern about LGB right and the safeguarding of child and young people have be systematically silence , and not just by the SNP . as recognise by the Minister for Women and Equalities , and again today in the Chamber by the Secretary of State for Health , there have be a deep - rooted capture within our institution , with senior leader ignore the actual law and ideologically capture group such as Stonewall misrepresent it . I commend the hon . gentleman for bring forward this issue , which we touch on in the statement early today . do he agree that we have a duty to protect child of all background from the lobby group that abuse the system to promote a harmful ideology ? for example , multinational company such as Starbucks have support charity such as Mermaids . it be time that those type of charity , which advocate for those as young as 14 , rethink their charitable endeavour . charity should instead help to protect our child , who must be leave alone . let kid be kid . I thank the hon . gentleman for that intervention . I make this point early today during in the statement , but the tentacle and influence of Stonewall need to be root out of every institution across these island . it have be my long - hold view that the agenda that Stonewall have push have see queer theory - base policy insinuate their way into every public body — Motion lapse ( Standing Order no . 9 ( 3 ) ) . motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Robert Largan . ) I will go back a step . Stonewall have push queer theory - base policy into every public body , include in policing , education , and health , and even on to the Floor of the House of Commons , where straight woman tell gay man to get back in their closet . the decision by Stonewall to add the t and incorporate cross - dress heterosexual male under the wide banner of " trans " , or the more recently add " q + " , be directly responsible for the elevation of concern among LGB people , woman and transsexual . the damage do by Stonewall have be immeasurable . LGB people , woman and transsexual have all be subject to vitriolic attack from queer - theory activist who hide their vicious and vindictive mob behaviour behind hashtag such as BeKind . I could give a roll call of those who have stand up to that mob , or be drag through the medium and the court for vexatious purpose , but I would be on my foot all week . I also want to put on the record that the Labour party leadership need to come out of hiding on this issue . the shadow Health Secretary ' s recent damascene moment of realisation do not mask the continued silence from the Leader of the Opposition , nor quell the ideological contingent of the parliamentary Labour party . that be not good enough in a general election year . People across these island need to know that this nightmare be come to an end before they cast their vote . I be encourage by the emergence of sex equality and equity network — know as seen — across the public sector , which challenge this harmful ideological capture . silence will not cut it . this indoctrination be cause very real and lasting damage , but the impact on those of we who speak up have be nothing in comparison to the evil of medical malpractice visit on many vulnerable young people . many of they be just lesbian , gay or bisexual , or young people deal with trauma , mental health issue or neurodivergence , or in the care system . as Sex Matters , now a recognise human right charity , have highlight : " a false global consensus around a ' gender affirm ' approach have emerge because of ideological actor put their individual belief - system ahead of the protection of distressed young people , many of whom be lesbian , gay and bisexual . " the WPATH file shine a light on the lack of evidence to support so - call gender - affirm care , and the ideological bias of document masquerade as clinical standard . tragically for child in the UK , WPATH ' s standard of care have be extremely influential in shape NHS protocol since 2011 . young people and many other have be badly fail . the Cass review must be the final nail in the coffin for a " gender - affirm " model of care for gender - distressed child . Dr Cass build on the concern set out in the WPATH file report , which lift the lid on the culture inside the World Professional Association of Transgender Healthcare . the Cass report also criticise WPATH guideline as lack in evidence and developmental rigour , and emphasise the vital need for fully inform consent , especially for young people with mental health condition or other diagnosable co - morbidity . I would ask the Minister to consider , and discuss with colleague in the Department of Health and Social Care , an urgent package of investment in child and adolescent mental health service as a starting point . that WPATH ' s unscientific standard of care guideline have repeatedly be laud by government as international good practice be another issue of deep concern , and I ask the Minister if he will commit to look into the reason why that be allow to happen . Dr Cass dismiss any notion that puberty blocker or hormone have any part in standard treatment for under - 18 . the report explicitly state that the medical pathway will not be right for most young people with gender distress : " the focus on the use of puberty blocker for manage gender - relate distress have overshadow the possibility that other evidence - base treatment may be more effective … clinician have tell we they be unable to determine with any certainty which child and young people will go on to have an endure trans identity . " Dr Cass decisively refute the idea that suicide prevention be a reason for medicalise gender distress in youth : " it have be suggest that hormone treatment reduce the elevated risk of death by suicide in this population , but the evidence find do not support this conclusion . " Gender distress have be treat within the NHS in a way that be different from other sort of distress , to the detriment of vulnerable child . the Cass review definitively show that young people with gender distress have be badly let down by those who claim to be protect they . it substantiate what so many , include Hannah Barnes and Helen Joyce , have argue : that gender - affirm care be not underpin by a credible or developed evidence base . it lead to sub - optimal outcome and the diagnostic overshadowing of complex underlie health and social issue . Dr Cass emphasise that there have be undue ideological influence on healthcare decision making , specifically note a suppression of evidence and a rush to medicalise vulnerable young people . this have be facilitate close to home in Kirkcaldy and Cowdenbeath , too . Carolyn Brown , a retire depute principal educational psychologist for Fife Council , say in the Sunday Post this weekend : " the same harmful ideology identify in the Cass report have be happen across Scotland for year now as senior official in health , education and social work fail to listen to concerned voice and adopt the ' three Wise Monkeys ' attitude while vulnerable child be harm … many child go through puberty do question their gender , their identity and their body . that ' s just part of grow up . the danger come when official affirm those questioning and tell a child they can change their gender . this be ethically and morally irresponsible as well as psychologically harmful and more likely to compound the mental health issue the child already have and reinforce the child ' s self - perception that he / she really be tran . " accord to queer theory extremist , these child be bear in the wrong body . once again , I commend the bravery and strength of those who have de - transitioned and have have the courage to tell their story — Keira Bell , Ritchie Herron and Sinead Watson and those yet to find their voice . it be a double scandal that we do not know how many other young people have be affect , and whose life have be irreversibly alter , by medical malpractice . these young people be exceptionalise and subject to life - alter treatment without due regard for safeguarding , and they be deny the necessary follow up expect in every other sphere of clinical practice . the cohort of Gender Identity Development Service patient be disproportionately make up of girl . prior to the publication of the Cass review , Tavistock whistleblow Dr David Bell speak of young LGB people , especially lesbian , have their sexuality " transe away , " yet it be woman ' s voice that have be sideline the most , and none more so than the voice of lesbian . it will not have escape the few people leave in the Chamber that I be not , and never can be , a lesbian , so I turn to lesbian activist in Scotland to give I their perspective on the impact that Stonewall ' s queer theory practice have have on their life . these be their word : " it have become very difficult to exclude man from lesbian space , especially if those space , event , or group be advertise publicly . male be demand access to lesbian for date , and to shame , bully or threaten lesbian who refuse . this have have the effect of drive lesbian culture underground , which mean it be very difficult for young or isolated lesbian to make connection … young lesbian tell we that they be under a great deal of pressure to accept man in their space and as romantic partner . some of the lesbian in the group have be pressure to identify as trans because of their same - sex attraction … the campaign around Gender ideology legislation have embolden homophobe , who make lesbian feel that there be something shameful or bigote about our sexual orientation . lesbian who assert their sexual boundary be describe as be obsess with genital or as have a ' fetish ' or ' kink ' . " this be undeniable and unacceptable homophobia . in Scotland , the Sandyford clinic be continue with these discredit hormone treatment , and to date the Scottish Government have persist with the claim that this amount to " international good practice " . that be a claim we now know to be manifestly false and worthless . as highlight by the LGB Alliance , Dr Cass find that 89 % of girl and 81 % of boy refer to GIDS be ultimately not tran but be homosexual or bisexual . that indicate an alarming pattern of misdiagnosis and inappropriate , unnecessary and irreversible medical and surgical intervention , and confirm what many have fear : that the NHS GIDS ' adoption of gender affirmation as a model of care have lead to their , whether inadvertently or not , practise medical and surgical gay conversion therapy . it be incoherent to put sexual orientation and gender identity under the same conversion therapy umbrella . Parliament should not legislate in this area until sound clinical evidence on the good model of care have be properly develop and validate . in a letter to First Minister Humza Yousaf raise my concern about so - call " trans - inclusive conversion therapy " , which we now know be gay conversion therapy , I make the following point : " legislate to compel belief in gender ideology run counter to provision in the Equality Act 2010 put beyond doubt by the Maya Forstater v CGD Europe and Others rule . force an ideology or belief on other . . . would transform the Crown Office and Procurator Fiscals Service into a pseudo - theocratic enforcement agency and would thus preclude any notion of receive a fair trial . " the Scottish Government , under Nicola Sturgeon and Humza Yousaf , have abandon any pretence they be uphold their public sector equality duty , put woman , child and LGB people at risk . they have be warn repeatedly , but they call such concern invalid and go ahead anyway . this place must not do the same . both First Minister Humza Yousaf and Ms Somerville have defend the introduction of non - statutory school guidance , enable non - expert teacher to affirm and enable the so - call " social transitioning " of minor in the absence of parental involvement or consent , but in a landmark legal opinion , human right barrister Karon Monaghan conclude that school and council use such an approach be very likely to be in breach of equality and human right legislation , and at risk of be sue by exclude parent . as the hon . and learn Member for Edinburgh South West ( Joanna Cherry ) note recently , both the Equality Act 2010 and Human Rights Act 1998 be reserved matter , so the same risk of litigation should hold true in Scotland . there be little personal or professional protection for an activist teacher , give that this guidance be non - statutory , so the personal repercussion could be significant if they be pursue directly by exclude parent . all of those warning be state long before the Cass report be publish , but the virulent opposition to reason foster and facilitate by Stonewall ' s ideological capture across our public sphere have keep too many silent about the unfold tragedy . last week , I write to the Clerk of the House set out in detail the legal and political incongruence and substantiate risk of harm from ropey ideologically - drive legislation . therefore , I be seek confirmation from the Minister that any such legislation will be exclude from the upcoming Criminal Justice Bill — I be refer to new clause 37 — give the weight of evidence that Dr Cass have publish about the danger of embed such practice in statute . when I read the Cass Report and contrast its finding with the meticulous follow - up so carefully develop and provide to the child and young people I care for during their cancer journey , it make I furious and ashamed that clinician could ever behave in such a cavalier manner . the LGB and other vulnerable young people who go to GIDS be subject to life - alter treatment , only to be cast aside without follow - up . that must never be allow to happen again — it be unethical and unprofessional , and the damage inflict be , frustratingly , unknown . the evidence contain in the Cass report and the WPATH file be incontrovertible : in more than 80 % of case , gender - affirm " care " be gay conversion therapy . end the routine prescribing of hormone supressing treatment be very much to be welcome , but I wish to press the Minister far on the step the Government will take to ensure that clinician operate in private clinical practice and online pharmacy adhere to the NHS clinical guideline issue by NHS England . this be a matter for the Department of Health and Social Care , the Ministry of Justice and the equality hub to work on in concert . what further step will the Government take to ensure that private clinic and online pharmacy be not able to circumvent these clinical guideline ? what sanction and enforcement measure will be put in place ? will the Minister make it clear that never again will service for child and young people be exceptionalise in the way that they have be , and that Dr Cass ' s recommendation will be implement in full so that healthcare , clinical practice and equality will be base on evidence , the good interest of every child and young person , and clinical expertise ? in closing , I agree with Dr Cass that LGB and gender non - conform young people " deserve very much well " . member of this House no long have any excuse to look the other way or to hide . I thank the hon . member for Kirkcaldy and Cowdenbeath ( Neale Hanvey ) for secure this important debate . he have raise a number of very serious issue . as he will understand , we be still consider a lot of they , so I may not be able to go into too much detail at this moment , but I will be more than happy to write to he and update he on progress in each area . I completely agree with he on the need for we always to think about the safeguarding of child and young people , regardless of whether they be LGBT . we need to ensure we uphold our obligation in that regard . we welcome much in the Cass report — it be a comprehensive report . as the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care say to the House early , we will be consider and respond to a lot of point make in the report in due course . much of what the hon . Gentleman be say be that we need evidence - base decision , which will clearly be incredibly important . as I have mention at the Dispatch Box a number of time , this debate sometimes get toxic , which do not help anybody . there be strong view on all side of the debate , but for I it be really important that we base the debate on evidence and ensure we be careful in the way that we articulate our argument . there be people out there , particularly young people , who will listen to some of those word and feel very affected and pressurise , in whatever direction that may be . that be why the Government and I be commit to improve the outcome of young people , especially recognise that LGBT young people can face very specific challenge , which may include bully at school , an increase risk of mental health issue , which the hon . Gentleman allude to , difficult family environment or , occasionally , even homelessness as a result of their sexuality . I assure the hon . Gentleman that the other equality hub Ministers and I regularly engage with our counterpart across Government Departments on these important issue . to help achieve the goal of improve outcome for LGBT people , we have ensure that spending for child and young people ' s mental health service have increase . the hon . Gentleman be right to raise that important point . we have increase spending from £ 841 million in 2019 - 20 to just over £ 1 billion , but I will ensure that I write to my colleague in the Department of Health and Social Care to raise the point that the hon . Gentleman have make this evening . the Minister have raise the issue of mental healthcare for young people , include child and adolescent mental health service , which be extremely important to I . I wish to reflect on the statement that be make this afternoon by the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care and some of the comment that come from the opposition decry the long waiting list for good service . I would just like to make this point : in this area , there be an attrition rate of upwards of 80 % of young people . Most of those be on a waiting list for a long time , during which they work out that they be just lesbian , gay or bisexual , so they do not go through with the surgical medical treatment . do he not agree that those long waiting list may have save some young people from the harm that have be inflict on other , and that the focus now need to be on CAMHS funding to make sure that young people get the mental health support they need before they make these irreversible and irrevocable decision ? that be exactly why the Cass report be so important . it be very carefully consider , and the Government now need to take the time to consider our response . none the less , the hon . Gentleman be right : when young people be decide to come out or be wonder whether they be lesbian or gay , they should have the support that they need to help they to do that . we recognise that some may not have the sort of family support that I be fortunate enough to enjoy . I be bless with an amazing family who be very supportive of I , but I do recognise that that be not the case for many other . the hon . Gentleman have make some important point and , as I commit to a moment ago , I will ensure that I write to my colleague in the Department for Health and Social Care with the question that he raise . it be important to point out that we work in partnership with the Department for Education as well , because we need to ensure that there be plenty of work go on in the anti - bullying arena . the hon . Gentleman allude to some of the pressure that the people he have speak to have feel . that be why we have allocate a furth £ 3 million of funding , divide between five anti - bully organisation , to tackle bully in school . that be on top of the £ 4 million that have already be spend in this area since 2016 , and this include project that specifically target anti - lgbt hate - relate bullying . in October 2022 , we launch a victim support service for anyone affect by , or at risk of , conversion practice , regardless of sexual orientation , sex or transgender identity , and the helpline be there to provide support and information to anyone over the age of 13 . as I have say on many occasion , conversion practice be not a one - way street . conversion practice — change somebody from what they believe they be to something else — be , in my view , abhorrent and clearly wrong . as I say , it can go either way , and it be really important that we acknowledge that . I have also do a lot of work on homelessness . I have see so many instance of young people who find themselves in these challenging area end up homeless . that could be because of that lack of family support that I mention or because of mental health issue . that be why last year I and the Minister responsible for homelessness convene a roundtable for local authority and charitable organisation to ensure that we provide tailor support for LGBT people , which be something that we take incredibly seriously . the hon . Member also mention the issue in Scotland . it would not be responsible for I to answer on the Scottish Government ' s behalf , and I do not want to do that . but in term of what we be do here , we want to ensure that child be prepare for life in modern Britain , and they need to understand the world in which they be grow up . that be why the statutory guidance state that all pupil should receive teaching on LGBT content during their school year , include in secondary school . I thank the Minister for give way ; he be a good sport , as always . just for clarity on the issue in Scotland , the fundamental question be about the implementation and observation of responsibility in the Equality Act 2010 and uphold the Human Rights Act , which be both reserve matter . in particular , the public sector equality duty have be an issue across a whole range of public body , not least the Scottish Government , who seem to have their own , perhaps Stonewall , view of how that should be interpret . it be incumbent on all of we to refocus on the fundamental principle contain within that duty . the hon . member be absolutely right to raise the issue in regard to the Equality Act . this can get quite complex and I would be terrify of say the wrong word at the Dispatch Box , but if he allow I , I will write to he with a few more detail on those important point . I be talk about the process in the statutory guidance . our colleague in the Department for Education be review the statutory guidance and we expect that to go out to public consultation later this year . the review have be inform by an independent expert panel , which bring together input from health , curriculum and safeguarding . we hope that that will be a good piece of work that provide update on the guidance . as for guidance relate to gender - question student , the hon . Member will be aware that the Department for Education publish comprehensive draft guidance for teacher on how good to support pupil question their gender in school . parent , teacher and school leader be encourage to respond to that 12 - week consultation , which close on 12 March . a range of view will be consider , and I look forward to the publication of the consultation response as we continue to work in this sensitive area . it be important that we get that absolutely right and that parent be involve ; that be incredibly important . I feel like I have not give the hon . member a million answer at this stage , but I hope he will understand that we have just have the Cass report , and it be important that we take the time to consider it . we be go through the review of the guidance that I mention . it be important that those proper process take place . on the other issue that he have raise , I will write to my colleague in the Department for Health and Social Care , and I will update he when I have have a response . in the meantime , I thank the hon . member for raise this important area of work . my view be that we all want to help people to live their life as they wish , without prejudice or pressure , and there be a responsibility on all of we in this House to do that in a way that be humane and compassionate . I be grateful for the opportunity to outline what we be do as a Government to support that . question put and agree to . House adjourn .