I thank the shadow Minister for his response , and welcome he to his place . I know that he will want to be a keen champion for the early year sector , and I be glad to hear he welcome the update that I have give to the House . as I say in my statement , Labour be committed to the delivery of expand entitlement across Government . the last Government leave significant challenge , but we be not shirk that responsibility . with Labour , the early year sector can rest assure that we will be work tirelessly to deliver a wide sea change in early education , as well as high and rise standard throughout the education system . let I now deal with some of the hon . Gentleman ' s specific point . it be clear to I from my consultation and engagement with parent and provider so far that we have inherit a pledge without a plan , and the consequence of that be inherit delivery challenge relate to workforce and place . I appreciate the point that the hon . Gentleman make about the workforce ; I believe by reset the relationship with the workforce , we can have a much more positive relationship with the sector in the future . over 300 , 000 child have benefit from the entitlement offer since September this year , which demonstrate that we be actively engage and work with parent to promote opportunity to take up the offer . we will continue to do so . on school - base nursery , the pilot during the testing phase be for 300 place from April . our ambition be for 3 , 000 place over the course of this Parliament . I look forward to work with the hon . member constructively to bring about the change that early year education so desperately need . I thank my hon . friend for his question . I be absolutely delighted to hear of his enthusiasm for the scheme , which will make a huge difference to community up and down our country . we be start a test - and - learn phase in April ; the roll - out will be in September . we want to learn from that approach , and I would be delighted to work with he on this matter .