prayer the House meet on the first day of this Parliament , pursuant to Proclamation . Tom Goldsmith , Clerk of the House of Commons , Sarah davy , Clerk Assistant , and Tom Healey , Principal Clerk of the Table Office , attend in the House , and the other Clerks attend , accord to their duty . Antonia Romeo , Clerk of the Crown in Chancery in Great Britain , deliver to the say Sarah davy a book contain a list of the Members return to serve in this Parliament . Sir Edward Leigh , the Member for Gainsborough , take the Chair ( Standing Order no . 1 ) . message to attend the Lords Commissioners Message to attend the Lords Commissioners deliver by the Lady Usher of the Black Rod . the House go up to hear the Commission for open and hold the Parliament , and the Lords Commissioners direct the House to proceed to the Election of a Speaker and to present the Speaker - Elect in the House of Peers for the Royal Approbation . the House return . election of Speaker under the term of Standing Order No . 1A , I be now require to ascertain whether Sir Lindsay Hoyle be willing to be choose as Speaker . first , I thank my constituent of Chorley for return I to this House and allow I to put myself forward again as Speaker . it be an honour to serve the people of Chorley , as I have do steadfastly for the last 44 year , as a councillor on the local authority and then as their Member of Parliament for the past 27 year . I also thank my wife Catherine and daughter Emma , and the staff in the constituency office in Chorley , for all their support . of course , it be the first time in my political career that I campaign without hear the wise word of my late father Doug , give I his opinion on how to campaign — he be always go to give I that , whatever the poll be do and whatever need to be say . I can still hear he now , say , " Don ' t stop now . you have to keep go . " I must say , after 25 , 000 step a day during the campaign , I certainly do that . I want to give a warm welcome to all the new Members of the House . I also welcome Sir Edward Leigh to his new role as Father of the House , and Diane Abbott to her place as Mother of the House . Sir Edward , you have serve this place and your constituent for 41 year . diane , you have serve for 37 year , and break many glass ceiling along the way . I thank the former Father of the House , Sir Peter Bottomley , and of course the former Mother of the House , Baroness Harriet Harman , for the support they give I during my speakership . Sir Edward , I know you be a man who respect tradition . indeed , when you run for Speaker in 2019 , you be keen to bring back the use of the wig by the Speaker . hopefully , though , you will look kindly on I and agree that I still have a decent enough head of hair , although not quite as luscious as that of the former Member for Lichfield — [ Laughter . ] you know I be only joke , Michael ! I be think just the other day , Sir Edward , that you must be the only person who go to bed last Thursday evening as a father of six child , and wake up the father of 649 . on a serious note , it have be an absolute privilege to serve this House as the 158th Speaker . I must say that four and a half year have fly . with the authority of the Chair come great responsibility , which be something I have never take lightly or for grant . I know from experience that decision have consequence , but with experience come wisdom , and if re - elect , I will be guide by that experience as I continue to be fair , impartial and independent . to say that I have the most unusual speakership in the last Parliament be an understatement , from ensure that the House could function during the covid pandemic — new member might want to google the Rees - Mogg conga — to adapt technology develop during covid to allow President Zelensky to be the first world leader to broadcast to mps in this Chamber . it be , of course , an honour to represent this House at the lying in state of her Majesty Queen Elizabeth , to present the address to the new King in Westminster Hall , and to attend his coronation . needless to say , in this role , you need staying power . I have already be Speaker during the tenure of three Prime Ministers , two monarch — and one Jim Shannon ! [ laughter . ] there have never be a dull moment ; it be an incredible job , which I want to continue . there be so much more still to do , because I care about the reputation and the standard of this House . I care about enable the Government to do their job in this Chamber , and about enable the opposition to hold the Government to account . I care about support back Benchers to pursue issue that be important to their constituency — as someone who be a Back - Bench Member for many year , I know how important that be — and I care about you individually , both as member who have a job to do in this building and as people try to do those job with constituent , staff and family to consider . I have work tirelessly , and will continue to do so , to keep member safe , which be the fundamental part of protect democracy . on that basis , I submit myself to the House as your Speaker , seek to be your champion . I beg to move , that Sir Lindsay Hoyle do take the Chair of this House as Speaker . as far as I be concern , the good thing about have Lindsay as Speaker be how good it be to have someone in the Chair who do not have an accent . I have be talk to lot of my constituent over the past six week , and they agree with I ! so I have figure it out , Lindsay . we be not the one with the accent ; it be everyone else . but seriously , Lindsay be a great champion for Lancashire , just as he be for this House of Commons . none of we in Lancashire could have imagine that Nancy Pelosi would walk those famous cobble of Coronation Street , but Lindsay , you do it . it seem that no part of Lancashire ' s cultural reputation be out of bound for Lindsay when host international speaker — indeed , have a pint of mild in the Rovers Return with Nancy Pelosi . it be a great pleasure today to be able to speak about my good friend from Chorley . I have several friend from Chorley , include my office manager Steven , who often regale my Lancaster constituency office with tale of his childhood in Lancashire ' s second town . one of my favourite anecdote be of Chorley zoo — I do not know that Chorley have a zoo . apparently , it be know as Chog zoo ; that might be the first reference in Hansard to Chog , which be the slang for Chorley . upon further investigation , the zoo be in fact Pets Corner in Astley Park . however , to this day , I suspect that a young Steven be mistake the Hoyle household menagerie for an actual zoo . with cat , dog , parrot and tortoise , Lindsay Hoyle really do live out the truism that we be a nation of animal lover . if you head three hour south from Lancashire , you will find yourself here . arrive in this grand building as a newly elect Member be daunt — the weight of pressure that you feel to deliver for your constituent , use parliamentary procedure that seem so confusing to bring about the change you have promise , can be immense . it can be difficult to know where to start , but a good place to start be by elect a good Speaker of the House of Commons , one with experience of eventuality that could not be foresee . Lindsay recall in his remark the covid restriction we need to adapt to at speed during the pandemic . indeed , he be the Speaker who steer we through that pandemic and steer we through those Rees - Mogg congas . he adapt procedure for the time we find ourselves in . it be also important to know that we have a Speaker who champion the voice of we Back Benchers , and one who ensure that all voice — Government and Opposition — be hear . our Speaker be fair , impartial and independent . newly elect member will find a great friend in our Speaker , and I know I have . be from Lancashire myself , I have the good fortune of know Lindsay before I be elect , and over the year he have be a great source of advice and guidance , some of which I take and some of which I choose to ignore . all I can say be that the advice I ignore I regret ignore , and live to tell the consequence . despite be annoyingly right about many thing , which be a good Lancashire trait by the way , he will ensure that his door be open to all member at time of need . I can vouch that he do a good brew — it be Yorkshire Tea though — but for those who prefer something from the right side of the Pennines and from the red rose county , I can say that his be the only place on this estate outside my own office I have manage to get a hot vimto . however , we all have our character flaw , and regrettably Lindsay do not support Lancashire ' s fine football team , Barrow , instead don the colour of Bolton Wanderers . yay ! we have a Bolton Wanderers fan . we should note that that team have both blue and red on its crest , and I think that exemplify Mr Speaker ' s even - handedness . as a proud champion of Lancashire ' s rugby league tradition , outside Westminster his favourite place be cheer on Warrington Wolves , and in the summer month Lancashire county cricket club . like all good sport people , Lindsay know fair play and hard work . for all those reason and so many more , I be proud and honour to propose that Sir Lindsay Hoyle take the Chair today . question put forthwith ( Standing Order No . 1A ) , that Sir Lindsay Hoyle do take the Chair of this House as Speaker . question agree to . Sir Edward Leigh leave the Chair , and Sir Lindsay Hoyle be conduct to the Chair by Cat Smith and Sir David Davis . ( stand on the upper step ) : before I take the Chair as Speaker - Elect , I wish to thank the House for the honour it have again bestow upon I . I be aware that it be the great honour it can give any of its member . I propose to do all within my power to preserve and cherish its good tradition . [ hon . member : " hear , hear ! " ] I also thank both Cat and David . the Speaker - Elect sit down in the Chair and the Mace be place upon the table . before I call the Prime Minister , let I just say that we have a busy day ahead of we , with further ceremony in the House of Lords and the most return hon . member to be swear in . I therefore encourage the Prime Minister , the Leader of the Opposition and other leader to be quite brief today . I hope that member respect the fact that only leader will make speech ; I be sorry for other member who may wish to speak . I have to say a big thank you to the staff of this House for the way they have bring all new member in and show they the way around . I hope that the buddy and everybody involve have make a real difference . I must say it be light year from 1997 when I first come in , and long may we continue that . I call the Prime Minister , Sir Keir Starmer . Mr Speaker - Elect , on behalf of the whole House , may I be the first to congratulate you on your re - election ? those of we who be here in the previous Parliament will always remember the wonderful support you provide to the former Conservative Member , Craig Mackinlay , and his inspiring battle to overcome his injury from sepsis . all of those return will remember , as I do , the speech he give just a few week ago , which be inspire and move . we wish he well ; I have the privilege on that occasion to meet his family and young daughter . that support , Mr Speaker - Elect , be characteristic of your profound care for the interest and welfare of all member , especially Back Benchers . I be grateful that new member will be able to look to you as they begin the great privilege of serve their constituent in this House . may I , too , welcome each and every one of the new member who be here for the first time , start their great responsibility ? I also thank the right hon . member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) for preside over this election , and congratulate he on become the new Father of the House . More than 40 year of continuous service be a stunning achievement . back in the 1970 , Sir Edward write a book describe as " a personal collection of quotation date from 3000 BC to the present day which might be say to cast some light on the working of the Tory mind " . after the last six week , it might be time for a new edition . Mr Speaker - Elect , you preside over a new Parliament that be the most diverse by race and gender that this country have ever see , and I be proud of the part that my party , and every party , have play in that ; and this intake include the large cohort of LGBT + mp of any Parliament in the world . give all that diversity , Mr Speaker - Elect , I hope that you will not begrudge I a slight departure from convention to pay tribute to the new Mother of the House , my right hon . friend the Member for Hackney North and Stoke Newington ( Ms Abbott ) , who have do so much in her career , over so many year , to fight for a Parliament that truly represent modern Britain . we welcome she back to her place . as in any new Parliament , we now have the opportunity and responsibility to put an end to a politics that have too often seem self - serve and self - obsess , and to replace the politic of performance with the politic of service , because service be a precondition for hope and trust , and the need to restore trust should weigh heavily on every Member here , new and return alike . we all have a duty to show that politic can be a force for good , so whatever our political difference , it be time to turn the page , unite in a common endeavour of national renewal , and make this new Parliament a Parliament of service . I call the Leader of the Opposition , Rishi Sunak . Mr Speaker - Elect , I be pleased to join the Prime Minister in welcome you back to the Speaker ' s Chair , and may I also praise the wonderful speech from the hon . member for Lancaster and Wyre ( Cat Smith ) ? I start by congratulate the Prime Minister on his election victory ; as he take on his formidable task , he and his family deserve the good wish of all of we in this House . in our politic , we can argue vigorously , as the Prime Minister and I do over the past six week , but still respect each other , and whatever dispute we may have in this Parliament , I know that everyone in this House will not lose sight of the fact that we be all motivate by our desire to serve our constituent and our country , and to advance the principle that we honourably believe in . I welcome to their place every Member , new and old , and congratulate they on their result ; to be send to this place by one ' s constituent be the great honour , privilege and responsibility . I know that every one of we will try to repay the trust place in we , and I look forward to continue to represent the interest of my rural north Yorkshire constituent . one of the great aspect of our system be that no matter how high you rise , you still have that constituency , which keep you ground , and my advice to all Members be to appreciate the role that you have , every day that you have it . for those of we in my party , let I begin with a message to those who be no long sit behind I : I be sorry . we have lose too many diligent , community - spirited representative whose wisdom and expertise will be miss in the debate and discussion ahead . it be important that after 14 year in government , the conservative party rebuild , so we will now take up the crucial role of his Majesty ' s official opposition professionally , effectively and humbly . restore trust begin with remember that be here be an opportunity to do what those we serve expect from we . in our case , that mean hold the new Government to account . may I congratulate the Father of the House , my right hon . friend the Member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) ? he have give 41 year of remarkable , dedicated service to this House and his constituency . I know full well how ferociously my right hon . friend fight for the interest of his constituent , and I applaud he for that . he be also testament to the benefit of an early morning dip in the Serpentine . member may be interested to note that the Bottomleys have have a big influence on my right hon . friend ' s career : in 1974 , my right hon . friend run against Arthur Bottomley in Middlesbrough in his first effort to enter this place . today , he take over from Sir Peter , who will be miss . may I also congratulate the new Mother of the House , the right hon . member for Hackney North and Stoke Newington ( Ms Abbott ) ? we have our difference on policy , but no one can deny the right hon . Lady ' s important role in this House , and the inspiration she have provide for so many young woman of colour . the right hon . Lady be truly in every sense of the word a trailblazer . may I join you , Mr Speaker - Elect , in thank House staff for their hard work in welcome our new colleague to this House and their service over the come Parliament ? finally , may I congratulate you , Mr Speaker - Elect ? when you first ascend to the Speaker ' s Chair , you do so with a healthy majority , and that be testament to your wide appeal and the confidence that this House place in you and your judgment . the last conservative Prime Minister to speak from the Opposition Benches , the right hon . John Major , say about the role of the Speaker : " the job specification be pretty daunting : the patience of Job and the wisdom of Solomon be only the basic requirement . we demand also impartiality , independence and fairness . " — [ Official Report , 7 May 1997 ; Vol . 294 , c . 9 . ] Mr Speaker - Elect , you have show over the past four and a half year how to protect that careful balance . the past few year in this House have be at time difficult , and you , Sir , have always bring this House together . that be clear when we lose our colleague Sir David Amess . I know your guidance and support for member then be greatly appreciated . it be a privilege to be in this House . our democracy be powerful and , as we have witness , it can be definitive , but I know that this House will , true to its good tradition , hold the Executive to account , and that Mr Speaker - Elect will facilitate that . in conclusion , I have no doubt that we will face difficult day together in this place , but I also know that I speak for the whole House when I say that we will all welcome your leadership and guidance in the month and year ahead . I call the Father of the House . as the first Back Bencher to speak in this Parliament , let I say that I seem to remember that almost the very first thing you say in your distinguished career as our Speaker , Mr Speaker - Elect — you say it almost before you arrive in the Chair — be that your primary job be to defend we Back Benchers , and I know that you will do that with enormous spirit and diligence . this place be primarily about great event and the opposition hold the Government to account , but it be also about the right and duty of all we back Benchers to have our view and our say , even if some of our view be a bit idiosyncratic . we all welcome the fact that we be such a diverse Parliament in every single way , but above all , we be a Parliament of a diversity of view . we be all equal . to be fair , some be more equal than other , but you , Mr Speaker - Elect , will defend our right to speak our mind and to hold the Government to account . I pay tribute to my predecessor , Sir Peter Bottomley , who give such wonderful service to this House . he send I a lovely little note today . he say , " have fun , do some good , and make people happy . " you , Mr Speaker - Elect , can not make all of we happy all the time , but every single day , you try to make most of we happy for most of the time . I call the Mother of the House . I congratulate the Speaker - Elect on his election . he have be Speaker through tumultuous time , but he have never fail to serve with grace , expertise and fairness . I also congratulate the 304 new Members enter Parliament after the election , and say to they : it be a great job , and you will never regret come here . I congratulate the officer of the House , who have organise such a meticulous and careful induction . when I be a new MP , they just give you a bunch of key and tell you to get on with it . when I be a new Member in 1987 , there be only 40 female member of Parliament . today , we have 264 . some of we be glad that we have live to see this . I can not speak about the increase number of female member of Parliament without reference my predecessor , Baroness Harriet Harman , who do so much work to have an equal and diverse House . we be go into very tumultuous time . historically , the House have play a role in event both national and international . I be sure that it will be the same go forward , and that we will be preside over excellently by the Speaker - Elect . I call the leader of the Liberal Democrats . Mr Speaker - Elect , it be a real pleasure and privilege to say , on behalf of those on the liberal Democrat Benches , congratulation on your re - election . you know only too well how tough a task you be take on , so thank you for agree to serve . you have show time and again your commitment to the vital role that the House play in hold the Government of the day to account . as the Mother of the House say , the new Government face a difficult task in clear up the mess they have inherit . we on the liberal Democrat Benches will hold the Government to account ; that be our job . we will focus on the health and care crisis , on end the sewage scandal , and on help people with the cost of living crisis . Mr Speaker - Elect , the new Government have a huge majority , so it will be a particularly difficult job for the Speaker to help the opposition party as they do their job of hold the Government to account . I be sure that you will do it with independence and impartiality , as you always have . we want to work constructively with you on that , as the large third - party force in this Parliament for over 100 year . for the benefit of new Members , may I say , Mr Speaker - Elect , that you have always be a real champion of the security and safety of all member and staff , as well as look after our health and welfare ? we be grateful to you for do that , Sir . just yesterday , you ask after my health follow my active campaign . the House may be interested to know that after I have reassure you about it , you express real enthusiasm about bungee jumping . may I congratulate you again , and wish you the very good for this Parliament ? I call the leader of the Scottish National party . thank you very much , Mr Speaker - Elect . I wish to begin by welcome all new member to the Chamber , in particular those from scottish constituency . there be probably a few more new member from scottish constituency than I would have like , but I look forward to work constructively with they to deliver in the good interest of the people we be all so fortunate to represent . to you , Mr Speaker - Elect , I think it be safe to say that you and I do not always see eye to eye during the course of the last Parliament . but in politic , and in life , it be important to let bygone be bygone and to focus on the future . event of that time show we that we have quite a lot in common , both then and at the general election , because despite the good effort , and indeed the good intention , of certain people , we both manage to hang on to the seat that we hold so dear . I look forward to work constructively with you over the come week , month and year , to allow we to well represent the people we respect and the fine tradition of this House . I call the leader of the Democratic Unionist party . congratulation , Mr Speaker - Elect . we be thrilled to see you back in the Chair . some new Members of Parliament who have yet to understand just how this place work will learn through time that my hon . friend the Member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) need no further encouragement . while the reference be appreciate , no doubt , by his mother and other , member will see the consequence . we have all survive , and some of we even enjoy an energetic election campaign . all of we will have experience the odd one who approach we and say , " I ' m not vote for you . " I have my fair share , and there be no surprise in that . but in the Guildhall Square in Londonderry — somewhere I would not expect to get too many vote — this man come up and say , " I ' m not vote for you ; I ' m vote for Lindsay Hoyle . " he be a Chorley man , and he impress upon I the constituency ground you have , your commitment to the community , and the length of service you have give he , his neighbour and your neighbour . he impress upon I how fondly you be think of within your home constituency . I , in turn , be able to reflect to he how you have rise within the office you hold ; how over the last number of year we have see just how important it be to have a true champion of Back - Bench representative in Parliament . you have give we that . it be a pleasure for I to reflect to he , and to you and the House today , just how fond we be of you . you bring solemnity to the office you hold , but you never lose the steadfast and chirpy nature of your Lancashire root . thank you for put yourself forward and for be prepared to serve we — this House and democracy — in this way . on behalf of my party colleague and , I trust , those other represent Northern Ireland constituent , I wish you well and thank you for it . I call the leader of Reform UK . Mr Speaker - Elect , thank you very much . we be the new kid on the block . we have no experience in this Parliament whatsoever , even though some of we have try many time over the year to get here , so we can not judge you from work in this place , but we can judge you from how the outside world see you . I mean not just the United Kingdom but the world , because Prime Minister ' s question time be global , box office politic . it be pretty clear to everyone that you act with great neutrality and that you have bring tremendous dignity to the role as Speaker , so we absolutely endorse you entirely for this job . that is , I must say , in marked contrast to the little man who be there before you , who besmirch the office so dreadfully in do his good to overturn the big democratic result in the history of the country . we support you fully , Sir . I call the leader of Plaid Cymru . Diolch yn fawr iawn , Llefarydd . I , too , rise to congratulate you on your re - election as Speaker of this House , and to wish you well in preside over this historic Session of the new Parliament . I be hearten that , for the first time in history , the proportion of woman elect here be over 40 % . More than half of those be new to this House . it be fantastic to see steady progress towards proper representation . I would also like to take this opportunity to congratulate not just the incoming Government on their victory , but the small party in this place . all of we here , whether we belong to the large party , the small party or no party at all , be elect in the same way . whatever the size of our parliamentary grouping , the principle of one vote , one value be the foundation of our democracy . that principle should be cherish and defend for the sake of all our constituent . I repeat to the House what I say upon your election all those year ago : all those constituent be equal and they all deserve respect . we begin the work of represent and champion our constituent , and I have every confidence , Mr Speaker - Elect , that you will continue to ensure that representative here be treat fairly , because our constituent should be treat fairly , too . Diolch yn fawr iawn . I call the co - leader of the Green party . thank you very much , Mr Speaker - Elect , and congratulation on the support you have receive from across the House today . I can already say , on behalf of the new cohort of Green MPs , that we have be very pleased with the support you have give we . you have show that you go out of your way to support new member in this House , and to support mp from all party to be able to hold the Government to account and represent our constituent . I know that I speak on behalf of all the Green mps — and , I be sure , all new mps — in say that we be very conscious that we be here first and foremost to be constituency mp , to represent our resident . we appreciate your support in enable we to do that . may I associate myself with the remark of the Prime Minister about the importance of politic be about public service ? I very much hope that in this new Parliament we can all move to a less tribal form of politic , where we work together where we can agree and move thing forward in the national interest . Mr Speaker - Elect , thank you for your support , and congratulation . I call the leader of the Social Democratic and Labour party . thank you , Mr Speaker - Elect . I be very glad to be back and very glad to see the result of the election . many people in Northern Ireland be delighted with it . we look forward to hold the new Government to account for the promise that they have make to the people of the north of Ireland . I want to take this opportunity to welcome all the new member — even the one I profoundly disagree with . the one piece of advice I would give every new Member be to remember that the Speaker do not just chair the meeting ; he be the boss . he be in charge of everything around this place and it would do well for you not to fall out with he . in fact , even a bit of suck up be sometimes good . I want to take this opportunity , as I say that , Mr Speaker - Elect , to congratulate and thank you for all the fantastic work you do over the last Parliament . you be a champion , as you say yourself , for Back Benchers and for the small party . even when some of we push very close to the line , when we feel that certain thing have to be put on the record of this House — he know what I be talk about — you be there to protect we from some of the legal authority who would like to get at we . thank you very much for that . Mr Speaker - Elect , I wish you all the good in corral this new House . it be very diverse in term of representation and in term of opinion . I look forward to the end of tribal politic — I think that will be a sight to behold . congratulation . I call Sorcha - Lucy Eastwood , on behalf of the Alliance party . thank you , Mr Speaker - Elect . I warmly congratulate you on your re - election . I be here as the new MP for Lagan Valley and representative for the Alliance party of Northern Ireland . my presence here demonstrate a change , more shared and more integrated Northern Ireland . of that , we in Alliance be very proud . Mr Speaker - Elect , you have manage business smoothly and fairly , include ensure that small party have have their voice hear . give the great diversity of party in this House , that leadership and precedent become even more important . I also want to put on the record how well you represent Parliament on the world stage , and at the time of the passing of our late queen and the coronation of our new King . I also want to associate myself with the Prime Minister ' s remark about this job be one of public service . all of we in this House owe a debt of gratitude to our constituent . I will never forget the constituent of Lagan Valley , and I join everyone in the whole House in look forward to commit myself to public service for all . finally , I call Jim Allister to speak on behalf of Traditional Unionist Voice . I join in the congratulation and good wish express to you , Mr Speaker - Elect . I have observe your speakership from a distance , and now I will have the benefit of observe it rather more close up . with I on my good behaviour , and with you at your tolerant good , I trust that we will have a mutually cordial relationship . I will certainly draw on your guidance and the experience that you bring to this House . I come to this House on behalf of my constituent in Northern Ireland with a very clear message : Northern Ireland ' s place within this United Kingdom must be restore . we must end the partitioning of our kingdom by a foreign border , and we must end a situation in which 300 area of law in Northern Ireland be control not by this House , and not by Stormont , but by a foreign Parliament . that be an appalling constitutional affront , and my focus in this House will be on play my part in seek to redress that gross inequity . may I thank all the party representative for their kind word ? it would be remiss of I not to thank the previous Deputy Speakers as well , so I say a big thank you to Nigel , Rosie and Eleanor , and to Sir Roger for step in . I have to signify to the House the pleasure of his Majesty that the House should present their Speaker this day at 3 . 45 pm in the House of Peers for his Majesty ' s Royal Approbation . sitting suspend . on resume — message to attend the Lords Commissioners Message to attend the Lords Commissioners deliver by the Lady Usher of the Black Rod . the Speaker - Elect , with the House , go up to be present to the Lords Commissioners for his Majesty ' s Royal Approbation , and return . I have to report that this House have be in the House of Lords where his Majesty have be pleased , by his Majesty ' s Commissioners , to approve the choice make of myself for the office of Speaker . my first duty to the House be to repeat my respectful acknowledgment and my grateful thank for the great honour you have confer upon I in place I in the Chair , and to renew the assurance of my entire devotion to the service of this House . member swear I must now call on the member of the House , accord to the usual custom , to take the Oath of Allegiance or to affirm at the table of the House , first do so myself . the Speaker first , alone , stand on the upper step of the Chair , take and subscribe the oath require by law . I should remind hon . member that , until they take the Oath or affirm , they must not sit during any debate or vote in any Division of the House , and they will not receive any salary . hence I sign quickly . the arrangement for swear in be set out in the Chamber information note , and a guidance note be available from the Table Office and the Vote Office . I propose to call first the Father of the House , then the Mother of the House , then member of the Cabinet , then member of the shadow Cabinet , then Privy Counsellors not include in those two group , wherever they may be sit , and then other Ministers . thereafter , I shall call other hon . member broadly accord to the Parliament of their first entry or , for those with broken service , that of their most recent entry . the first group will be those who have be member since before the 2010 election . thereafter , I shall proceed to call member by successive Parliaments . I do not expect to call new member until tomorrow . I propose to remain in the Chair until about 9 o ' clock this evening , if member continue to come forward , with a suspension at around 6 . 30 pm until 7 . 30 pm . the House will sit tomorrow at 11 . 30 am . I propose to remain in the Chair until about 4 o ' clock , with a suspension between 1 . 30 and 2 . 30 pm . the House will sit at 9 . 30 be on Thursday , and I will be in the Chair for swear in until 11 . 30 am , by which time I hope we will have make enough progress to permit all member to swear in who wish to do so . the House will therefore not need to sit again before Wednesday 17 July , when we return for the King ' s Speech . I remind member that swear in , as a proceeding of the House , be record by the television camera , and that anything say or do by member may appear on television or in Quentin Letts ' s column , and may be pick up by the microphone . it will assist the broadcaster if new member clearly state their name and constituency when they come to the Dispatch Box . progress will depend , of course , on the number of member wish to swear in at any particular time . I advise member to watch the annunciator to establish progress , and to speak to their whip . before we proceed to swear in , it may assist member to know that the Government have indicate that they intend to table a motion to provide that the House should rise for the summer on Tuesday 30 July . the new Leader of the House ask I to read that out on her behalf , and she will announce further detail in due course . let we begin with the Father of the House . the following member take and subscribe the Oath , or make and subscribe the Affirmation require by law : right honourable Sir Edward Julian Egerton Leigh , for Gainsborough right honourable Diane Julie Abbott , Hackney North and Stoke Newington right honourable Keir Starmer , Holborn and St Pancras right honourable Angela Rayner , Ashton - under - Lyne right honourable Shabana Mahmood , Birmingham Ladywood right honourable Rachel Jane Reeves , Leeds West and Pudsey right honourable Lucy Maria Powell , Manchester Central right honourable Sir Alan Campbell , Tynemouth right honourable Yvette Cooper , Pontefract , Castleford and Knottingley right honourable David Lindon Lammy , Tottenham Peter John Kyle , Hove and Portslade Louise Margaret Haigh , Sheffield Heeley right honourable Elizabeth Louise Kendall , Leicester West Joanna Meriel Stevens , Cardiff East right honourable Lisa Eva Nandy , Wigan Steven Mark Ward Reed , Streatham and Croydon North right honourable Hilary James Benn , Leeds South Bridget Maeve Phillipson , Houghton and Sunderland South Ian Murray , Edinburgh South right honourable Edward Samuel Miliband , Doncaster North Wesley Paul William Streeting , Ilford North Darren Paul Jones , Bristol North West Anneliese Jane Dodds , Oxford East right honourable Rishi Sunak , Richmond and Northallerton right honourable Sir Oliver James Dowden , Hertsmere right honourable Jeremy Richard Streynsham Hunt , Godalming and Ash right honourable James Spencer Cleverly , Braintree right honourable Olukemi Olufunto Badenoch , North West Essex right honourable Stuart James Andrew , Daventry right honourable Chris Ian Brian Mynott Philp , Croydon South right honourable Victoria Atkins , Louth and Horncastle right honourable Laura Trott right honourable Melvyn John Stride right honourable Andrew John Bower Mitchell Michael Alex Burghart Andrew John Griffith right honourable Edward John Comport Argar right honourable Stephen Paul Barclay Richard Quentin Fuller James Roger Cartlidge Kevin Paul Hollinrake , Thirsk and Malton John Robert Lamont , Berwickshire , Roxburgh and Selkirk right honourable Damian Patrick George Hinds , East Hampshire right honourable John Philip Glen , Salisbury Miriam Jane Alice Davies , East Grinstead and Uckfield Helen Olivia Bicknell Whately , Faversham and Mid Kent Julia Louise Lopez , Hornchurch and Upminster Dame Rebecca Elizabeth Scott Harris , Castle Point Stuart Paul Anderson , South Shropshire right honourable Sir Jeremy Paul Wright , Kenilworth and Southam right honourable Mark Richard Tami , Alyn and Deeside right honourable Sir David Michael Davis , Goole and Pocklington right honourable Douglas Garven Alexander , Lothian East right honourable Emily Thornberry , Islington South and Finsbury right honourable Robert Edward Jenrick , Newark right honourable Mark Andrew Pritchard , the Wrekin right honourable Sir Desmond Angus Swayne , New Forest West Christopher Philip James Elmore , Bridgend Sir Christopher John Bryant , Rhondda and Ogmore Stephen John Doughty , Cardiff South and Penarth Matthew Thomas Pennycook , Greenwich and Woolwich James Ignatius o ' Rourke McMahon , Oldham West , Chadderton and Royton Catherine McKinnell , Newcastle upon Tyne North Catherine Elizabeth West , Hornsey and Friern Barnet right honourable Claire Coryl Julia Coutinho , East Surrey Fleur Anderson , Putney right honourable Valerie Carol Marian Vaz , Walsall and Bloxwich right honourable Sir Julian Murray Lewis , New Forest East right honourable Sir John Henry Hayes , South Holland and the deeping right honourable Esther Louise McVey , Tatton right honourable Sir Roger James Gale , Herne Bay and Sandwich right honourable Priti Sushil Patel , Witham right honourable Gavin James Robinson , Belfast East right honourable Dame Karen Anne Bradley , Staffordshire Moorlands right honourable Wendy Morton , Aldridge - Brownhills right honourable Sir Stephen Creswell Timms , East Ham Karl Turner , Kingston upon Hull East right honourable Sir Julian Richard Smith , Skipton and Ripon Daniel Owen Jarvis , Barnsley North Dame Nia Rhiannon Griffith , Llanelli Kerry Gillian McCarthy , Bristol East John Derek Twigg , Widnes and Halewood Gareth Thomas , Harrow West Jessica Elizabeth Morden , Newport East Luke Pollard , Plymouth Sutton and Devonport Dawn Petula Butler , Brent East right honourable Alexander Jesse Norman , Hereford and South Herefordshire right honourable Stephen Mark Flynn , Aberdeen South Nicholas Desmond John Smith , Blaenau Gwent and Rhymney Alison McGovern , Birkenhead Jessica Rose Phillips , Birmingham Yardley Colum Eastwood , Foyle Eleanor Claire Reeves , Lewisham West and East Dulwich Samantha Kate Dixon , Chester North and Neston Gagan Mohindra , South West Hertfordshire Joy Inboden Morrissey , Beaconsfield Paul John Holmes , Hamble Valley Clive James Charles Betts , Sheffield South East Michael Jon Wood , Kingswinford and South Staffordshire right honourable Maria Eagle , Liverpool Garston Andrew Campbell Bowie , West Aberdeenshire and Kincardine right honourable Sir George Iain Duncan Smith , Chingford and Woodford Green Simon James Hoare , North Dorset Gregory Lloyd Campbell , East Londonderry Zarah Sultana , Coventry South Feryal Demirci Clark , Enfield North Seema Malhotra - Saluja , Feltham and Heston Deborah Angela Elspeth Marie Abrahams , Oldham East and Saddleworth Mohammad Yasin , Bedford Karin Marguerite Smyth , Bristol South Richard James Shannon , Strangford Nigel Paul Huddleston , Droitwich and Evesham Marie Elizabeth Rimmer , St Helens South and Whiston right honourable Jeremy Bernard Corbyn , Islington North Barry Strachan Gardiner , Brent West Paula Barker , Liverpool Wavertree Rachel Louise Hopkins , Luton South and South Bedfordshire Stella Judith Creasy , Walthamstow Mary Kelly Foy , City of Durham Kim Marie Johnson , Liverpool Riverside Graham Eric Stringer , Blackley and Middleton South Clive Stanley Efford , Eltham and Chislehurst Christopher James Evans , Caerphilly right honourable Sir John Flasby Lawrance Whittingdale , Maldon Marsha Chantal De Cordova , Battersea Rosena Chantelle Allin - Khan , toot Rosemary Clare Duffield , Canterbury Sarah Deborah Champion , Rotherham Stephen James Morgan , Portsmouth South Florence Dauta Eshalomi , Vauxhall and Camberwell Green Kate Ofunne Osamor , Edmonton and Winchmore Hill Richard John Holden , Basildon and Billericay Catherine Jane Smith , Lancaster and Wyre Grahame Mark Morris , Easington Ian Lavery , Blyth and Ashington Jon Hedley Trickett , Normanton and Hemsworth right honourable Dame Diana Ruth Johnson , Kingston upon Hull North and Cottingham Peter Christopher Dowd , Bootle Luke Morgan Evans , Hinckley and Bosworth Antonia Louise Antoniazzi , Gower Claire Aisling Hanna , Belfast South and Mid Down right honourable Christopher Laurie Malthouse , North West Hampshire right honourable Alistair Carmichael , Orkney and Shetland Nusrat Munir Ul - Ghani , Sussex Weald Andrew Richard Rosindell , Romford Daniel Joseph Carden , Liverpool Walton Andrew John Gwynne , Gorton and Denton Navendu Prabhat Mishra , Stockport Naseem Akhtar Shah , Bradford West Alexandra Mary Davies - Jones , Pontypridd Dame Angela Eagle , Wallasey George William Freeman , Mid Norfolk Gillian Furniss , Sheffield Brightside and Hillsborough Matthew Richard Allen Rodda , read Central Preet Kaur Gill , Birmingham Edgbaston Timothy James Farron , Westmorland and Lonsdale Gerald Jones , Merthyr Tydfil and Aberdare Dame Caroline Julia Dinenage , Gosport right honourable Patrick Bosco McFadden , Wolverhampton South East right honourable Edward Jonathon Davey , Kingston and Surbiton Mark Robert Timothy Garnier , Wyre Forest Andrew Howard Western , Stretford and Urmston right honourable Caroline Fiona Ellen Nokes , Romsey and Southampton North William Roffen Esterson , Sefton Central Heidi Alexander , Swindon South Emma Elizabeth Reynolds , Wycombe Abena Oppong - Asare , Erith and Thamesmead Ruth Ashley Charman Dalton Paulette Adassa Hamilton Taiwo Victoria Owatemi Andrew Joseph McDonald Judith Mary Cummins Mohammed Afzal Khan Charalambos Charalambous Ruth Lorraine Jones , Newport West and Islwyn Anna Rhiannon McMorrin , Cardiff North Stephanie Louise Peacock , Barnsley South Jeffrey Smith , Manchester Withington Alan Mak , Havant Lilian Rachel Greenwood , Nottingham South Tulip Rizwana Siddiq , Hampstead and Highgate Helen Elizabeth Hayes , Dulwich and West Norwood Caroline Elizabeth Johnson , Sleaford and North Hykeham Alberto Castrenzse Costa , South Leicestershire Michael Lee Amesbury , Runcorn and Helsby Ian Robert Byrne , Liverpool West Derby Christine Anne Jardine , Edinburgh West Sarah Louise Green , Chesham and Amersham layla Michelle Moran , Oxford West and Abingdon Rebecca Long - Bailey , Salford Simon Robert Lightwood , Wakefield and Rothwell Wendy Anne Chamberlain , North East Fife Sorcha - Lucy Eastwood , Lagan Valley Christopher Murray Alexander Law , Dundee Central Sarah Siena Edwards , Tamworth Alistair Luke Strathern , Hitchin David Michael Doogan , Angus and Perthshire Glens Emma Louise Lewell - Buck , South Shields Rachael Helen Maskell , York Central Mary Theresa Glindon , Newcastle upon Tyne East and Wallsend Mary Elizabeth Twist , Blaydon and Consett Rupa Asha Huq , Ealing Central and Acton Benjamin Walter Jack Spencer , Runnymede and Weybridge Gareth Andrew Bacon , Orpington Munira Wilson , Twickenham Helen Margaret Lilian Morgan , North Shropshire Andrew Henry George , St ive genevieve Victoria Kitchen , Wellingborough and Rushden Keir Alexander Mather , Selby Greg Smith , Mid Buckinghamshire Daniel Rayne Kruger , East Wiltshire Neil Peter Hammerton Hudson , Epping Forest Wera Benedicta Hobhouse , Bath Janet Jessica Daby , Lewisham East Juliet Olive Campbell , Broxtowe Yasmin Qureshi , Bolton South and Walkden Helen Grant , Maidstone and Malling Brendan o ' Hara , Argyll , Bute and South Lochaber Neil John o ' Brien , Harborough , Oadby and Wigston Sarah Ann Jones , Croydon West Victoria Jane Foxcroft , Lewisham North Christian Wakeford , Bury South Sir Christopher Robert Chope , Christchurch Adam Habib Jogee , Newcastle - under - Lyme Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi , Slough Bradley Anthony Thomas , Bromsgrove Matthew John Patrick , Wirral West Lewis Christopher Cocking , Broxbourne Richard Burgon , leed East Nadia Edith Whittome , Nottingham East Sir Mark Phillip Hendrick , Preston Leigh Ingham , Stafford Maya Anneke Elsie Ellis , Ribble Valley Christopher McDonald , Stockton North Lauren Sullivan , Gravesham Dan Norris , North East Somerset and Hanham Alexandra Mayer , Dunstable and Leighton Buzzard Kim Michele Leadbeater , Spen Valley Andrew Francis Slaughter , Hammersmith and Chiswick Martin John Vickers , Brigg and Immingham Sarah Jane Olney , Richmond Park Sitting suspend . on resume — the following member take and subscribe the Oath , or make and subscribe the Affirmation require by law : Daisy Cooper , for St Albans Sir Ashley Peter Fox , Bridgwater Joshua Thomas Aderele Babarinde , Eastbourne Brian George Felton Mathew , Melksham and Devizes James Hugh Allister , North Antrim Alex Easton , North down Benedict Maguire , North Cornwall Adam James Dance , Yeovil John Martin Charles Wrigley , Newton Abbot Vikki Slade , Mid Dorset and North Poole Gideon John Amos , Taunton and Wellington Tessa Jane Munt , Wells and Mendip Hills Susan Catherine Murray , Mid Dunbartonshire Clive Richard Jones , Wokingham Sir Geoffrey Robert Clifton - Brown , North Cotswolds Sir Bernard Christison Jenkin , Harwich and North Essex Sharon Hodgson , Washington and Gateshead South Robert John Blackman , Harrow East Lee Raymond James Dillon , Newbury Tristan John Osborne , Chatham and Aylesford Jo White , Bassetlaw Andrew James Snowden , Fylde Sarah Dyke , Glastonbury and Somerton Thomas Gordon , Harrogate and Knaresborough Ben Obese - Jecty , Huntingdon Rebecca Sheila Paul , Reigate Jack Michael Rankin , Windsor Aphra Kendal Alice Brandreth , Chester South and Eddisbury Rebecca Jane Smith , South West Devon Alexandre Samuel Barros - Curtis , Cardiff West Kanishka Narayan , Vale of Glamorgan Damien Egan , Bristol North East Torsten Henricson Bell , Swansea West Gareth Craig Snell , Stoke - on - Trent Central Henry Tufnell , Mid and South Pembrokeshire Luke Sean Murphy , Basingstoke Luke Myer , Middlesbrough South and East Cleveland Steffan Luke Aquarone , North Norfolk Alicia Alexandra Martha Kearns , Rutland and Stamford Peter Alexander Bedford , Mid Leicestershire Caroline Jane Voaden , South Devon Rosalind Elizabeth Adriana Savage , South Cotswolds Sarah Gibson , Chippenham Anna Elizabeth Sabine , Frome and East Somerset Ian Fraser Sollom , St Neots and Mid Cambridgeshire Dame Harriett Mary Morison Baldwin , West Worcestershire Alexander James Jorden Norris , Nottingham North and Kimberley Emma Louise Foody , Cramlington and Killingworth right honourable Mark Gino Francois , Rayleigh and Wickford Lisa Smart , Hazel Grove Robert Peter Moore , Keighley and Ilkley Pamela Ann Catherine Nash , Motherwell , Wishaw and Carluke Justin Piers Richard Madders , Ellesmere Port and Bromborough Richard John Foord , Honiton and Sidmouth Joe Paul James Robertson , Isle of Wight East Louie Thomas French , Old Bexley and Sidcup Bobby Warren Dean , Carshalton and Wallington Monica Bernadette Etheldreda Harding , Esher and Walton Joshua Peter Reynolds , Maidenhead Sarah Bool , South Northamptonshire the sitting be suspend until 8 . 30 pm . the bell will ring five minute before the sitting resume . sitting suspend . on resume — the following member take and subscribe the Oath , or make and subscribe the Affirmation require by law : Manuela Perteghella , for Stratford - on - Avon Neil Shastri - Hurst , Solihull West and Shirley Maximilian Peter McGregor Wilkinson , Cheltenham Charles Alistair Geoffrey Dewhirst , Bridlington and the Wolds Ian Roome , North Devon Oliver David Ryan , Burnley Adjournment Resolved , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Christian Wakeford . ) House adjourn .