accord to Euro - Med Human Rights Monitor , Israeli have kill , seriously injure or maim well over 100 , 000 people in Gaza since 7 October , the vast majority of they civilian , and woman and child . More than 1 , 000 child have lose limb , and many have have to undergo amputation without anaesthetic . whole family and generation have be wipe out , and just this week the United Nations Human Rights Office say it believe that israeli soldier have engage in arbitrary detention , extrajudicial killing and sexual violence , include the rape and execution of woman and girl , and intentionally and publicly humiliate and degrade other . Israel itself have post video of its humiliation of civilian man . Israel do not even pause for breath in its slaughter in Gaza when the International Court of Justice put it on trial for genocide and order it to protect palestinian life . yet our Government continue to enable and assist the israeli military . the UK Government must explain why they have issue at least 27 arm licence to Israel in the last 137 day — British - make bomb and weapon kill civilian in Gaza . the UN World Health Organisation and other have be warn for week that famine and disease in Gaza be start to kill more civilian than bomb and bullet . the health system in Gaza have be bomb into collapse . famine be now in Gaza , and 80 % of the world ' s hungry people be in that tiny enclave . Israel be use starvation as a weapon of war . Palestinians be force to eat grass just to survive . Palestinians in Gaza be force to grind animal feed into flour just to survive . cut off funding for UNRWA , the United Nations aid organisation for Palestine , be a death sentence . only a fraction of the bare minimum for survival be be allow through in aid . Israel be bomb Rafah , where it drive almost the whole population for their suppose safety . Israel say that it plan a full invasion , which would trigger a catastrophe that would dwarf the horror we have see so far . the UK Government be under an obligation under international law to do everything in their power to stop genocide , yet they have not take a meaningful step to do so , and they will not even call for an immediate ceasefire to end the devastation . we must call for an immediate ceasefire , and it be ludicrous that we be engage in collective punishment . collective punishment be a war crime . forceable transfer and slaughter be war crime . we therefore need the motion that the SNP have put forward today , which call for an end to these war crime and an immediate ceasefire . I support it .