prayer the Clerk at the table have inform the House of the unavoidable absence , through illness , of the Speaker from the sitting of the House this week , the Chairman of Ways and Means take the Chair as Deputy Speaker ( Standing Order no . 3 ) . oral Answers to Questions Wales the Secretary of State be ask — inflation and Public Spending what assessment he have make of the impact of inflation on public spending in Wales . may I say how sorry I be to learn of the death of Baroness Kinnock ? I meet she when I be an intern in the European Parliament many year ago , and I have never forget how fearless , remarkable and determine she be . I send my deep condolence to the hon . member for Aberavon ( Stephen Kinnock ) and the wide Welsh Labour family , who also mourn the death of Allan Rogers , who serve in this House as the Member for Rhondda for 19 year . the UK economy have outperform expectation this year , and the Prime Minister have deliver on his pledge to halve inflation . follow the Chancellor ' s announcement at the autumn statement , the Welsh Government will receive £ 305 million in additional funding , which can be use to support public service in Wales . tory inflation and austerity mean that the Welsh budget be worth £ 900 million less than it be when it be set , and the autumn statement consequential do not make up for that . the Institute of Welsh Affairs have call the autumn statement " a return to austerity " with " tax cut at the cost of cut to public service delivery . " it be the people of Wales who be suffer poverty and cut to public service , so I ask the Minister : instead of the autumn statement tax handout to the wealthy in London and the south - east , will the Secretary of State not urge the Chancellor to tax the wealthy to well protect Welsh public service ? the House will not be surprised to learn that I completely disagree with the hon . Lady ' s assessment . it be not the amount of money the Welsh Government be receive but the way in which they be mismanage public service that be the problem . the 2021 spending review deliver the Welsh Government a record settlement of £ 18 billion a year , so I think that she need to recognise that the problem be on her own side in Wales . I call the shadow Minister . I welcome the hon . Lady to her role and thank she for her tribute to Baroness Kinnock and to Allan Rogers . Glenys Kinnock be an inspiration to our Labour movement , to her many friend and colleague around the world , but most of all to her family . as the Kinnock family grieve , we send they our love and deep sympathy . on public spending in Wales , the Prime Minister promise , when abandon hs2 , that the north Wales main line would be electrify , at a cost of £ 1 billion . in the past eight year , construction cost have increase by 7 % a year , because of the Government ' s economic mismanagement . will the Minister confirm that the last time any cost assessment be do on electrification be in 2015 and that the scheme will now cost between £ 1 . 5 billion and £ 1 . 8 billion ? I join the hon . Lady in her comment about the Kinnock family . it be important to recognise that this Government be the first in many decade to commit to that project . I be sorry that she appear to agree with her colleague in the Welsh Labour Government in Cardiff Bay , who seem to say that this be not a priority ; conservative Members feel that electrification and economic growth in north Wales be a priority , and I be sorry that she can not agree with that . if it be such a priority , why have nothing be do since 2015 , when the cost assessment be undertake ? the hon . Lady ' s Government promise to electrify the south Wales main line , but they do not do so . they promise to improve journey time and connection between south Wales and London , but they do not do that either . she have not give an answer on whether the Government will fully fund electrification , so how can she stand there and claim to the people in north Wales that this project have any prospect whatsoever of be complete by this hapless government ? I say again that the hon . Lady ' s party have already dismiss this project as not a priority . I also say again that north Wales be a priority for this government ; we be determined to level up right across this country and especially to focus on area that the Welsh Labour Government , in south Wales , have completely ignore . I add my condolence and those of my party to the Kinnock family on their sad loss . Wales ' s public service , assail by inflation and austerity , now face the further difficulty of recruit the skilled migrant who have become so vital to care for our age population , as the family threshold be to rise to £ 38 , 700 . that be £ 8 , 000 high than the average wage in Gwynedd , with many of my constituent earn significantly less . will the Minister tell I what representation she — or , rather , the Secretary of State — have make to the Home Secretary on the effect of the new threshold on Welsh public service ? as the hon . Gentleman will know , the Secretary of State have regular discussion with his Cabinet colleague about the issue . it be absolutely vital that we take tough measure to make sure that we sustain sensible level of migration . that be exactly what the Home Secretary have announce this week . the change in the salary threshold will affect real people with real family and real people receive care . my constituent Daniel Griffith be due to marry his brazilian partner next year . they intend to make their home in Wales , but it be far from clear at present whether they will be able to do that under the new income rule . why should Daniel , unlike the Secretary of State , the Minister and everyone else in this Chamber , have to choose between his wife and his country ? some of the policy put in place by the Welsh Labour Government , aid and abet by Plaid Cymru under the co - operation agreement , be disadvantage Wales , put off investor from create investment and job in Wales . again , I say to the hon . Gentleman that it be his colleague in Cardiff Bay who need to have a look at what they be do . Narrow Gauge Railway Tourism whether he have have discussion with the Welsh Government on promote and support narrow gauge railway tourism in Wales . narrow gauge and heritage railway be important for our tourism sector . although tourism be , of course , devolve , the UK Government have demonstrate their support for the sector . the Secretary of State see that at first hand on 2 June , when he open Corwen station , which be partly fund by the UK Government ' s levelling - up fund . first , I welcome my hon . friend to the Dispatch Box ; it be a pleasure to see she there . a little while back , a friend of mine from Rouen , Thierry Fontenay , come over to Tywyn in Gwynedd . I ask myself , " how can I amuse he ? " I take he on the Talyllyn railway , and we go from Tywyn to Abergynolwyn . he be over the moon — he take photograph of the engine and go on to the footplate . he tell I that there be no narrow gauge railway like that , if at all , in France . what can we do to promote in Europe these wonderful narrow gauge railway that we have in Wales ? my hon . friend be , of course , right : Wales ' s narrow gauge railway be part of our unique tourism offer , so it be vital that they be market to the world . that be why Visit Britain work to ensure that Wales ' s brand value be reflect in the broad great campaign . let I do visit Britain and visit Wales ' s job for they and warmly invite Monsieur Fontenay to come and see the premier narrow gauge railway — the Brecon Mountain railway . impact of Autumn Statement what assessment he have make of the impact of the autumn statement on the Welsh economy . the autumn statement set out the UK Government ' s plan to grow the economy and incentivise work so that economic growth can be feel throughout the United Kingdom . that will include a national insurance tax change from January , which will put £ 324 back into the pocket of 1 . 2 million worker across Wales . North Wales have always be the poor relative to south Wales , where the Welsh Labour Government in Cardiff fund their voter basis . however , thank to the foresight of this Conservative Government , money be now flow from Whitehall to Wrexham — £ 13 million from the levelling - up fund , £ 20 million from the town fund , £ 24 million from the share prosperity fund and the prospect of a £ 160 million investment zone . we be work on a civil service hub . do the Secretary of State agree that , after 20 year of neglect from the Welsh Labour Government , this Conservative Government have put Wrexham firmly on the map ? I be absolutely delighted to agree with my hon . friend : the UK Government be put Wrexham on the map . I be , of course , delight with the £ 160 million investment zone across Wrexham in Flintshire , which be mark by a visit from the Chancellor to the area . the £ 20 million town fund for Wrexham will ensure long - term certainty and investment for the area and for the growth deal . I believe that the freeport in north Wales will also benefit my hon . friend ' s constituent . accord to research from the Bevan Foundation , nearly one in four Welsh child have report have recently be worried about be cold , and around one in eight have worry about be hungry . what be the Government go to do about that ? the UK Government have spend £ 96 billion on measure to help the least well off across the United Kingdom throughout the difficult time bring about by the covid pandemic and the war in Ukraine . on top of that , in the autumn statement we be able to announce a cut in national insurance , which will put more money into people ' s pocket . I hope that the hon . Gentleman will be talk to his constituent , who be no doubt hit by the high taxis in the whole United Kingdom as a result of the policy of the Scottish National party Government . I call the shadow Minister . may I join other in pay tribute to Glenys Kinnock , who be much love by we all ? early this year , the Secretary of State tell my hon . friend the Member for Cardiff Central ( Jo Stevens ) that his Government would prioritise help the most vulnerable , yet Welsh household still face the consequence of 13 year of his Government ' s economic failure , with a historically high tax burden and his own constituent pay on average £ 240 more each month on their mortgage . can he explain , then , why his conservative colleague in the Senedd be call for the Welsh Government to withdraw their £ 40 million mortgage support scheme for those at risk of repossession ? the UK Government have already bring forward a mortgage charter to support anyone get into difficulty . I hope that the hon . Lady agree that the fact that the Government have deliver on their pledge to halve inflation over the past year will mean that everyone in Wales be well off ; that the cut to national insurance will mean that everyone in Wales be well off ; and that the increase in the living wage as well the Government ' s commitment to ensure that pension and benefit be uprated in line with inflation will mean that everyone on low salary be well off . tourism Sector Visitor Levy what recent discussion he have have with the Welsh Government on the potential financial impact of proposal to implement a visitor levy for Wales on the tourism sector . the UK Government be invest in Wales and in the Welsh tourism industry , which have be evidence most recently by the decision to allocate £ 500 , 000 to the Hay Festival — a project champion by my hon . friend the Under - Secretary . it be a pity that the Welsh Government be not take the same view about the importance of the tourism industry and be introduce a tax that signal that Wales be close for business . I thank my right hon . friend for his answer . it be no surprise that hit tourist with a tax be likely to deter they from want to visit Wales , despite the natural beauty of place such as Snowdonia and the attraction of visit location such as Anglesey . alongside highlight the folly of this move from the Welsh Labour Government , will he ensure that anyone advocate for a tax on tourism anywhere else in the UK be remind of the negative impact that it would have on our tourism sector ? I can assure my hon . friend that not only will I be remind the Welsh Labour Government about the importance of support the tourism industry and the folly of introduce a tax , but my conservative colleague in the Senedd will also be make that point . I hope that the Welsh Labour Government will listen to they and also listen to the Wales Tourism Alliance , which have say that this tax will be a tax on job and a tax on an industry that employ one in 10 people in Wales . Rural Communities : 20 mph Speed Limit what recent discussion he have have with the Welsh Government on the potential impact of the 20 mph speed limit on rural community . what recent discussion he have have with the Welsh Government on the potential impact of the 20 mph speed limit on rural community . all of we support speed limit in place where there be a risk to life . I have support speed limit outside school , hospital and other place in my constituency , but the Welsh Labour Government ' s policy of bring in a 20 mph speed limit on all 30 mph road — a blanket speed limit — be damage for the economy . by their own figure , they have suggest that it could create a £ 4 . 5 billion hit to the Welsh economy . they need to think again . I thank the Secretary of State for his answer . More than 8 , 700 people on Ynys M ô n and almost half a million across Wales have sign the Senedd petition to rescind and remove the disastrous 20 mph law . in fact , more people have sign the petition than vote for Labour in the last Senedd election . unlike the Welsh Labour Government , will the Secretary of State listen to people across Wales and join I in call for the Welsh Labour Government to reverse this new , disastrous 20 mph law ? I absolutely agree with my hon . friend and call on the Welsh Labour Government to rescind the policy of a blanket 20 mph speed limit across Wales . at the same time , I call on they to rescind their policy of build no new road ever again in Wales , and I call on they to scrap their policy of bring in road charge for use the motorway network . be it not interesting that not one Labour Member present be willing to stand up to defend their own Senedd Government policy ? we have already hear about the importance of tourism to the Welsh economy . have my right hon . Friend make any assessment of the impact on tourism , which will disappear from Wales as a result of this blanket ban ? my hon . friend make an interesting point . People will now not only have to pay extra money to come into Wales as a result of the Welsh Labour Government ' s tourism tax , but find it a lot slow to get around Wales as a result of the Welsh Labour Government ' s speed limit . in my constituency of Monmouthshire , the Labour council have recently decide for the first time ever to bring in charge for people who want to use the shop on a Sunday over the Christmas period , mean that it want we to slow down , but not to stop . local authority in Wales have have the opportunity to exempt road and village from the blanket application of a speed limit . Devon County Council have have less discretion . in May this year , 105 parish in Devon apply to the county council to have a 20 mph limit , but only six application be grant . do the Minister accept that an opt - in system for 20 mph zone depend on local authority have enough funding to exercise discretion ? the hon . Gentleman ' s party be in charge in Powys — I be not sure whether he be aware of that . the reality be that local authority across Wales need more funding to implement such policy , which have cost £ 30 million . the Welsh Labour Government be divert money from local authority so that they can spend it on their pet scheme , include extra Senedd Members . impact of Autumn Statement what discussion he have have with Cabinet colleague on the impact of the autumn statement on household in Wales . I have regular discussion with Cabinet colleague regard UK Government support for household in Wales , so I be absolutely delighted that in the autumn statement the Chancellor announce a 9 . 8 % rise in the national living wage , provide an extra £ 1 , 800 to the annual earning of full - time worker . we be all think of the lovely Glenys Kinnock and her family , especially my hon . friend the Member for Aberavon ( Stephen Kinnock ) , at this sad time . the number of emergency food parcel distribute by the Trussell — [ interruption . ] order . do it occur to hon . member when they be converse in a normal speak tone , rather than whispering , while a member be ask a question that it be really rude and discourteous ? thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . the number of emergency food parcel distribute by Trussell Trust food bank in Newport West be on the rise . in 2018 , the number of parcel distribute be 1 , 971 . in the same period this year , over 3 , 000 be distribute to family . there be nothing in the autumn statement that would make that situation well . why not ? with respect , I disagree with the hon . Lady . the fact that inflation have be halve will be of benefit to anyone receive food parcel . the fact that there have be a cut in national insurance will be beneficial for people . the fact that there have be an increase in the living wage will be beneficial for people . the fact that pension and benefit be go up in line with inflation be go to be beneficial for people in her constituency . what be not go to be beneficial for her constituent be the Welsh Labour Government want to spend over £ 100 million create extra Senedd Members . the Minister will be aware that he UK - EU Parliamentary Partnership Assembly have be meet in Westminster this week . it be make clear by the co - chair , Natalie Loiseau MEP that Glenys Kinnock have make a huge contribution in the European Parliament , particularly in advocate for woman ' s right . that be something that she want to record , so it be not just in this Parliament that Glenys Kinnock will be remember for her role in politic . do my right hon . friend agree that the cut in national insurance contribution , the improvement in the national living wage and the cutting of inflation be crucial to Welsh household , as they be across the UK ? I agree with my right hon . and learn Friend on all those point — first , that Glenys Kinnock make an enormous contribution to politic in this country , as have her husband , to whom we send our condolence , and as do her son who , at this very moment , be work hard to support steelmaking in south Wales . it be a pleasure to work with he on the transition board in Port Talbot , even though we have disagreement from time to time on political matter . may I add to the tribute and support everything that my right hon . and learn Friend say ? I agree that the recent change in the autumn statement will be beneficial for people in Wales . float Offshore wind : Celtic Sea what discussion he have have with Cabinet colleague on expedite the development of float offshore wind in the Celtic Sea . I have regular — in fact , frequent — conversation with Cabinet colleague and stakeholder to support the float offshore wind industry , which will create high - quality job in Wales . the Government fully support plan for up to 4 GW of float offshore wind in the Celtic sea , and we be work to bring forward an additional 12 GW through the 2030 , with the potential to bring forward up to £ 20 billion - worth of investment . previous offshore wind development on England ' s east coast have show that appropriate planning be need to minimise disruption to community . do my right hon . friend agree that the development of float offshore wind in the Celtic sea should mean single - cable corridor — one to his side of the water , and just one to the north coast of Devon or Cornwall — to reduce environmental and societal disruption ? I know that the electricity system operator be currently review the design of connection for offshore wind project . last week — or possibly early this week — I meet the Crown Estate , and I have be meet National Grid to discuss some of the issue around cable and the reconfiguration of the grid . the decision as to where the cable will go and how many of they there will be be a fairly technical one that I fear I be not qualified to take a view on , but I can assure my hon . friend that the Crown Estate and National Grid would be more than happy to talk to she about that . any onshore and offshore wind in the Celtic sea will affect fisherman in Northern Ireland as well . can the Secretary of State assure I that , when it come to plan for offshore wind , the fishing organisation in Northern Ireland , Scotland and Wales will all have input on where it happen , so that fishing will not be affect ? the hon . Gentleman make a good point . in spark a float offshore wind industry , certain challenge need to be deal with together with various other Government Departments — he have make reference to one challenge . I can assure he that I have already have informal discussion about that , and will be look to have more such discussion with the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs and other Government Departments to ensure that we overcome all the challenge and create a vibrant , sustainable industry for the future . Energy Bills what recent discussion he have have with Cabinet colleague on the cost of energy bill in Wales . I have regular discussion with Cabinet colleague on a variety of issue , include the cost of energy bill . the Government recognise the challenge pose by cost of living pressure , which be why we be provide on average £ 3 , 700 per household from 2022 - 23 to 2024 - 25 to support household and individual with the cost of living . the Minister may not be aware of the very successful Warm Wales programme in the noughtie , which see ten of thousand of home have their cavity and loft insulate , save resident in Neath , Port Talbot and Wrexham hundred of pound every year . do the Government recognise that concentrate scheme of that nature have a major impact on fuel poverty , and will Ministers steal our plan , which would see hundred of thousand more household benefit ? I be well aware that there be a number a renewable energy scheme that could have a positive benefit on householder in Wales , which be why the UK Government have be so supportive of the potential for float offshore wind in the Celtic sea , and why , in the last round , we arrange high strike price for tidal energy . we be look at a wide range of renewable energy system that can bring benefit to people in Wales . at the same time , in recognise the cost of living pressure , the UK Government ensure that we be pay around half the average fuel bill for homeowner during the last winter period . farm what step he be take to support farming in Wales . last week , I have the pleasure of talk to farmer at the Royal Welsh Agricultural Society winter fair , and at livestock market in Sennybridge and Talybont in my constituency . the UK Government be commit to back Welsh farming , most notably by allocate more than £ 900 million to the Welsh Government . that deliver on our manifesto commitment to maintain funding for farmer and land manager at 2019 level . farmer across the UK — from those in the country of Wales to those in the village of Wales in Rother Valley — face increase pressure . the Minister will know that I be hold my next farmer ' forum with the Minister for Food , Farming and Fisheries , my right hon . friend the Member for Sherwood ( Mark Spencer ) , early next year in Rother Valley . what be my hon . friend do to support farmer in the country of Wales , farmer in the village of Wales in Rother Valley and farmer across the whole of the UK ? I congratulate my hon . friend on his work to ensure that the voice of farming be hear by the Minister . like I , he understand that farmer across this country be the beat heart of the rural economy , drive growth in rural constituency such as mine . I must say , that attitude stand in stark contrast to that of the Labour party in Wales , which have already cut £ 37 million from the Welsh agriculture budget . we wait with trepidation to see what damage labour will do to Welsh farmer next week . I call Stephen Doughty — [ interruption . ] order . that just prove the point : member be not pay the least bit of attention to a colleague who be about to speak — he could not even hear his name be call . it be rude to keep talk when someone be try to ask an important question . rail Infrastructure what discussion he have have with Cabinet colleague on the adequacy of rail infrastructure in Wales . what discussion he have have with Cabinet colleague on the adequacy of rail infrastructure in Wales . thank you for your generosity , Madam Deputy Speaker . I , too , pay tribute to my very good friend in the Kinnock family after the loss of Glenys , who be a dear friend to all of we , and note the sad death of the former Member for Rhondda . I ask the Secretary of State — order . let the Minister respond to the question . the UK Government be commit to build a strong rail infrastructure network across Wales , which will improve connectivity and drive economic growth . my constituent want the parkway station to be build at St Mellons . that will require important work on the south Wales main line for relief line . will the Minister meet I and colleague , with the rail Minister — the Minister of State , Department for Transport , the hon . member for Bexhill and Battle ( Huw Merriman ) — to ensure that this important national investment be make , so that the station can go ahead ? I will be delighted to meet the hon . gentleman to discuss that and the investment that the UK Government be already put into rail infrastructure in Wales . the Secretary of State and the Minister should know that I have campaign for year to close the dangerous level crossing in Pencoed in my constituency . no levelling - up funding or transport bid funding have be approve for any of the application . will the Minister please talk to Department for Transport official to resolve this , rather than allow DFT official to keep announce more and more rail service , which mean close the crossing more by stealth ? that be not acceptable to my constituent . I work well with the hon . Gentleman when I be in the Government Whips Offices and I very much look forward to do so again . I will write to he to offer a meeting about that . before we proceed to Prime Minister ' s question , many colleague have ask I to pass on their good wish to Mr Speaker in his absence . I be happy to inform the House that , although Mr Speaker have test positive for covid and therefore can not be present in the Chamber , he be rapidly get well . just as soon as that little test show negative , he will be straight back here in his Chair . Prime Minister the Prime Minister be ask — West midland : economic Growth whether he have have recent discussion with the Mayor of the West Midlands on economic growth in that region . I welcome you to your place , Madam Deputy Speaker . I know that the whole House wish Mr Speaker a speedy recovery . before I answer my hon . friend ' s question , I also know that the whole House will want to join I in offer our condolence to the family and friend of Alistair Darling , Glenys Kinnock and Lord James Douglas - Hamilton . they each make an enormous contribution to public life and will be deeply miss . the Hillsborough family have suffer multiple injustice : the loss of 97 life , the blaming of the fan and the unforgivable institutional defensiveness of public body . I be profoundly sorry for what they have be through . today , the Government have publish their response to Bishop James Jones ' s report to ensure that the pain and suffering of the Hillsborough family be not repeat . I be immensely grateful that they share their experience . I hope to meet they in the new year , and the Lord Chancellor and Secretary of State for Justice will make an oral statement after pmq . turn to the question ask by my hon . friend the Member for Lichfield ( Michael Fabricant ) , the Government continue to work closely with the Mayor of the West Midlands to develop fully his plan to deliver growth . I join the Prime Minister in his comment about the Hillsborough family . it be thank to Margaret Thatcher and her robust treatment of militant trade union in the west midland , and to her contribution of £ 10 billion at today ' s price to the motor industry in the west midland that iconic name such as Jaguar and Land Rover still exist . do the Prime Minister share my boundless joy that on the road to Damascus and in recognition of her great heritage and all that she achieve , another fanboy have join in her great belief — the Leader of the Opposition ? my hon . friend be a fantastic champion for his area , and because of the pro - business policy of this government , I be delighted to see that Jaguar Land Rover have invest billion of pound in its move towards electrification in the region . he be absolutely right : I be always happy to welcome new Thatcherites from all side of this House , but it say something about the Leader of the Opposition that the main strong female leader that he could praise be Margaret Thatcher , not his own fantastic deputy . engagement if he will list his official engagement for Wednesday 6 December . this morning , I have meeting with ministerial colleague and other . in addition to my duty in this House , I shall have further such meeting later today . the Government be set to close the household support fund in March , cut off crucial free meal for 12 , 000 of Rotherham ' s child in the low - income family . with the Government ' s cost of live crisis in full swing and energy price about to increase again , how do the Prime Minister justify take food from the mouth of my poor child ? what we be do be ensure that no child should grow up in poverty . that be why we have not only provide considerable cost of live support this year , worth over £ 3 , 000 to a typical household , but provide more support this winter for pensioner , a record increase in the national living wage , and a full indexation and uplifting of welfare for the next financial year . when it come to child and food , not only do we fund free school meal for almost 2 million child , but we introduce the holiday activity and food programme . that programme provide not just food but enrich activity to deprive child up and down the entire country , include in the hon . Lady ' s local authority . if there be one place where everyone should feel safe , it be in their own home , but the reality be that for some of the most vulnerable people , home be precisely where they can be most at risk . they be terrorise by criminal who target they , move in , take control , and set up a base camp from which they sell drug or facilitate prostitution in a horrendous form of exploitation know as cuckooing . it have happen in Eastbourne , and it be happen across the country . it be not an offence , but it should be ; it be not cite in the Criminal Justice Bill that we debate last week , so will my right hon . friend and the Home Secretary meet with I and concerned colleague to far discuss the issue ? I agree with my hon . friend that cuckooing be an abhorrent practice that often prey on the most vulnerable in society . as part of the Government ' s antisocial behaviour action plan , the Home Office engage with relevant stakeholder about whether a new criminal offence be necessary . the result of that engagement demonstrate that a range of exist power can be use to disrupt that activity , but of course I will ensure that the relevant Minister meet with my hon . friend and update she on the work we be do to share effective practice to tackle this abhorrent problem . I call the Leader of the Opposition . it be very good to see you in your place , Madam Deputy Speaker . we wish Mr Speaker a speedy recovery . this week , we lose two giant of the Labour family , and I thank the Prime Minister for his comment . Alistair Darling be a man of unassuming intelligence , warmth and kindness . he bring a calm expertise and , in private , a cut wit , and his devoted love of his family be ever present . our thought be with Maggie , his wife , and Calum and Anna , whom he love so dearly . Glenys Kinnock be a passionate campaigner for social justice who change life at home and abroad . she be a loving and supportive partner and mother , and her death be a huge loss to all of we . we be think of Neil , Stephen , Rachel and all the family . I also echo the Prime Minister ' s comment in relation to Lord Douglas - Hamilton . in relation to the Hillsborough family , they deserve justice . in a previous capacity , I work with the family . they wait a very long time for the finding , thank to people in this House , and they have wait a long time for this response , but I be glad it be now come . if the purpose of the Rwanda gimmick be to solve a political headache of the Tories ' own making — to get people out of the country who they simply could not deal with — then it have be a resounding success . after all , they have manage to send three Home Secretaries there — an achievement for which the whole country can be grateful . apart from member of his own Cabinet , how many people have the Prime Minister send to Rwanda ? as I have be clear before , we will do everything it take — [ interruption . ] we will do everything it take to get this scheme work so that we can indeed stop the boat . that be why this week we have sign a new legally bind treaty with Rwanda , which , together with new legislation , will address all the concern that have be raise . everyone should be in no doubt about our absolute commitment to stop the boat and get flight off , because — this be the crucial point that the right hon . and learn Gentleman do not understand — deterrence be critical . even the National Crime Agency have say that " you need an effective removal and deterrence agreement " if you truly want to break the cycle of tragedy that we see . what we hear this morning from his own shadow Ministers be that they would scrap the scheme even when it be operational and work . once again , instead of be on the side of the british people , he find himself on the side of the people smuggler . when the Government first announce this gimmick , they claim Rwanda would settle ten of thousand of people — ten of thousand of people . then the former Deputy Prime Minister quickly whittle it down to mere hundred . then the Court of Appeal in June make it clear there be housing for just 100 . the current number of people send there remain stubbornly consistent — zero . at the same time , article 19 of the treaty say : " the party shall make arrangement for the United Kingdom to resettle a portion of Rwanda ' s most vulnerable refugee in the United Kingdom " . so how many refugee from Rwanda will be come here to the UK under the treaty ? Madam Deputy Speaker — [ interruption . ] order . the treaty , as I have say , address all the concern of the Supreme Court , but it be a point of pride that we be a compassionate country that do welcome people from around the world . let I just get the right hon . and learn Gentleman up to speed on what we be do : we have reduce the number of illegal arrival from Albania by 90 % ; increase the number of illegal work raid by 50 % ; and because of all the action we have take , the number of small boat arrival be down by one third . but what be the right hon . and learn Gentleman ' s plan ? what it come down to be that he simply do not have a plan to address this problem . [ interruption . ] no , no , I be probably be unfair , because he do have a plan : it be to cook up a deal with the EU that would see we accept 100 , 000 illegal migrant . Migration have treble on the Prime Minister ' s watch , and all he can do be make up number about the Labour party . it be really pitiful . I be not actually sure the Prime Minister can have read this thing . article 4 say the scheme be cap at Rwanda ' s capacity — that is 100 . article 5 say Rwanda can turn they away if it want . article 19 say we actually have to take refugee from Rwanda . how much do this " fantastic " deal cost we ? as the Home Secretary be crystal clear about , there be no incremental money . [ interruption . ] there be no incremental money that have be provide . this be about we ensure that the concern of the Supreme Court have all be address in a legally bind treaty that will allow we to operationalise the scheme . but I be glad the right hon . and learn Gentleman raise the topic of legal migration , which I agree be absolutely far too high . that be why this week we have outline a plan , big than that of any other Government before , to reduce the level of legal migration by 300 , 000 . it be an incredibly comprehensive plan , so if he care so much about it , the simple question for he be : do he support the plan ? he clearly hasn ' t read it . Annex A say that , on top of the £ 140 million he have already shower on Rwanda , when we send people there under this treaty , we will have to pay for their accommodation and upkeep for five year . and that be not all : a Minister admit this morning that anyone we send to Rwanda who commit a crime can be return to we . I be begin to see why the Home Secretary say the Rwanda scheme be — it be something to do with bat , wasn ' t it ? what do the Prime Minister think first attract Mr Kagame to hundred of million of pound for nothing in return ? I have slightly lose the thread of the question . the simple point be that if you believe in stop the boat , as we on this side of the House do , you need to have effective deterrence and a return agreement . it be as simple as that . the right hon . and learn Gentleman be not interested in stop the boat , which be why he be not interested in the Rwanda plan . in fact , we know they do not want to tackle this issue , because even when this Government be try to deport foreign national offender from this country , they oppose it . multiple shadow Front Benchers sign a letter to I to that effect , but I do not need to tell he that , because he sign it too ! [ interruption . ] order . that be enough . I would say that this treaty have more hole than a swiss cheese , but I do not want to wind up the Prime Minister by talk about a european country again . I have to give credit to the Rwandan Government . they see the Prime Minister come a mile off . I can only imagine their delight and sheer disbelief when , have already bank £ 140 million of british taxpayer ' money without housing a single asylum seeker , the Prime Minister appear again with another offer they can not refuse — a gimmick will send taxpayer ' money to Rwanda and refugee from Rwanda to Britain , and will not stop the boat . there be mention of Margaret Thatcher early — [ hon . member : " More ! " ] order . there be understandable excitement about the mention of the name , but the House must listen to the Leader of the Opposition . how do the Tory party go from " up yours delor " to " take our money , Kagame " ? when it come to this european thing and Margaret Thatcher , this be the week that the shadow Foreign Secretary do not rule out rejoin the European Union . the Leader of the opposition can roleplay Margaret Thatcher all he want but , when it come to Europe , his answer be the same : " yes , yes , yes . " forget the private jet ; the Prime Minister be obviously on a private planet of his own . Daily Mail reader learn this week that he have begin to feel sorry for himself . he have even be hear compare his plight to his beloved Southampton football club . I think that be a bit harsh , because the saint have be on an 11 - game unbeaten run while , as the song have it , the Prime Minister get batter everywhere he go . if we want the perfect example of how badly the Tories have break the asylum system , last week the Home Office admit that 17 , 000 people in the asylum system — [ interruption . ] order . come on now . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . if we want the perfect example of how badly the Tories have break the asylum system , last week the Home Office admit that 17 , 000 people in the asylum system have disappear . these be its exact word , and they be hard to believe : " I don ' t think we know where all those people be " . now , you might lose your car key , you might lose your headphone , you might lose your marble , but how do you lose 17 , 000 people ? on the topic of football team , the right hon . and learn Gentleman use to describe the Rwanda policy as immoral , yet his football team have a " Visit Rwanda " badge on the side of their shirt . in the week when he make his big economy speech , we be still wait to hear how he be go to borrow £ 28 billion and still cut taxis and reduce debt . it be the same old thing : the sum do not add up . while the opposition be struggle with their calculator , we be get on and deliver — a new treaty with Rwanda , the tough ever measure to cut legal migration , our school march up the table , and tax cut for million . whether it be control our border or lower our taxis , just like the Saints , the Conservatives be march on . I be get feed up of sit in traffic jam in my constituency cause by contractor dig up road , involve lane closure and temporary traffic light , often invoke utility company emergency power when it turn out not to be an emergency and often with no sign of anybody do any work , particularly over weekend . I set up a campaign to name and shame these inconsiderate contractor , but it turn out that when they cause all this chaos and breach the rule of their permit , the maximum penalty be an £ 80 fix penalty notice . will the Prime Minister back my campaign and support well enforcement and realistic level of fine ? my hon . friend make an excellent point . we have set aside £ 8 billion as a result of our plan on HS2 , which be enough to resurface over 5 , 000 mile of road to improve journey — a cornerstone of our plan — but we be also introduce a range of measure , as my hon . Friend say , to reduce congestion from roadwork . contain in the plan for driver be a scheme for great fine and penalty to ensure that work finish on time . I will make sure that we look at his suggestion , and I wholeheartedly back his campaign . I call the leader of the Scottish National party , Stephen Flynn . be the Prime Minister worry that he be project to be the first conservative party leader to lose a general election to a fellow Thatcherite ? [ interruption . ] order . we really must hear the Prime Minister , and we have a lot of question to get through . [ interruption . ] it be not the Prime Minister ' s opponent who be give he trouble . I say to the hon . Gentleman that Margaret Thatcher ' s view be to cut inflation , then cut taxis and then win an election , and that be very much my plan . of course , it be not just in relation to Margaret Thatcher that the Tory and Labour leader appear to agree ; the same be true of the Government ' s late migration policy . those of we on these Benches be not afraid to say that we believe migration be a good thing . it enrich our community , it enrich our economy , and it enrich our university , our school , our health service and , of course , our care sector . why do the Prime Minister think it be acceptable to ask people to come to these shore to care for our family member , while we show complete disregard for theirs ? what have become of this place ? that be completely wrong . as we have already say , we have a proud track record of welcome those who be most vulnerable around the world — over half a million over the past few year from Syria , Afghanistan , Ukraine , Hong Kong and elsewhere — and that be what this country will always do . but at the same time , when it come to economic migration and other form , it be absolutely right that we take strong action to curb the level that we have see , because they be simply far too high and place unsustainable pressure on our public service . I make no apology for say that or , indeed , for say that it be important that those who come here contribute to our public service . I welcome the Government ' s significant funding increase for two - year - old ' pre - school in 2023 , but the illustrative 2024 - 25 Department for Education funding to Dorset Council for two - year - old ' pre - school look to be a net 17p per hour less than it be today , and that be give West Dorset preschool some nervousness about their sustainability . will my right hon . friend support I to ensure that educational funding formula will take into account the challenge of rural living and allow excellent preschool to — order . I think we have get it . in a couple of year ' time , we will have increase spending to over £ 8 billion every year on free hour and early education , which will help work family with childcare cost ; indeed , it be the single big investment in childcare in England ever . but my hon . friend make an excellent point , and that be why we will ensure that there be a discretionary supplement in the local authority ' local funding formula for rural community to account for the small economy of scale , so that they can continue to deliver their vital work . nine month on from the Windsor framework , I thank the Prime Minister for his ongoing effort to restore the Northern Ireland Assembly and Executive . however , if and when the institution be restore , they will still be plague by the same structural weakness that have see repeat collapse and unfairness on thing such as designation . this week , the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee publish a report call for a review of the Good Friday agreement . many architect of the agreement , such as Tony Blair , John Major and Bertie Ahern , have recognise the case for reform . will the Prime Minister commit to an early review of the agreement to improve its stability , effectiveness and fairness ? I recognise the hon . member ' s campaign on this issue and I have great respect for his position . indeed , we have speak on a number of occasion both here and on my visit to Northern Ireland . my focus right now be on get the institution up and run , and my overarching priority be to get public service in Northern Ireland back on track , which I know be an ambition that he and I share . any reform of institution be well deal with with the support of all part of the community . when it come to restore the current institution , the Government be do everything they can to support effort , and I know that the Secretary of State will be in touch for engagement with the party imminently on that point . yesterday , 13 man die by suicide ; today , 88 man will die of heart disease ; tomorrow , and every day , 90 , 000 man will wake up in prison ; and today we have 2 . 2 million boy live at home with no dad . thankfully , we have an excellent Cabinet Minister for woman , and an excellent Minister for Women . will the Prime Minister meet I to discuss the merit of a Minister for man and boy ? as Warren Farrell have say , when one sex lose , " both sex lose " . my hon . friend should be commend for his tireless campaign on this issue . he be particularly right to focus on suicide , and I be grateful for his engagement with the suicide prevention strategy , which set out the action that we will take to reduce suicide in the come year . it be thank in part to his campaigning that on International Men ' s day we announce that we be appoint the first man ' s health ambassador and launch a man ' s health taskforce . I look forward to continue collaboration with he so that we can represent his concern adequately . convict criminal be be hold in police station cell across West Yorkshire because the Government have completely fail to deliver more prison place . two third of prison be overcrowded , criminal be let out early — if sentence at all — only 2 % of rapist reach court , serious violence be up by 60 % , knife crime be up by 70 % , and nearly 65 , 000 case be wait to be hear . how can the Prime Minister reassure the resident of Wakefield that they be safe on our street ? we have a clear plan to protect victim , punish criminal and cut crime . we be in fact invest £ 400 million more in prison place on top of the £ 4 billion that I announce as Chancellor , which be deliver 20 , 000 new cell . we be also make sure that rapist serve every day of their sentence and ensure that life mean life for the bad offender — something that I hope the Labour party will be support soon . my constituent Ceri and Frances Menai - Davis , who be in the Public Gallery , lose their son after a long battle with cancer , during which they visit he in hospital every day . they have set up a charity call it ' s never you to help parent in that situation , and on Monday I intend to present a Bill that will ask the Government to report on what support can be give to those parent . I hope the Prime Minister might ask Ministers to discuss that with I so that we can find a way forward to help parent in that dreadful situation . may I express my sympathy to my right hon . and learn Friend ' s constituent for what they have be through , and commend they for set up the it ' s never you charity ? I will ensure that he and the organiser get the appropriate meeting with the Minister to discuss its important work . he be absolutely right that parent who be in that situation should have all the support they need , and we will make sure that that happen . one in five of my resident live in fuel poverty and , accord to Cornwall Insight , this winter look to be the most brutal yet , with the current trajectory in energy price expect to be the new norm for the rest of the decade . as the Prime Minister will know , one of the good way to support household be through the introduction of a social tariff . he promise a consultation by summer this year , but we be still wait . when will the consultation be release ? we have also provide considerable support in the here and now for household with their energy bill : £ 900 of direct cost of live support this financial year on top of a record increase in benefit , along with winter fuel payment of up to £ 300 this winter for pensioner , because they be particularly vulnerable . we will continue to look at all the support we have to ensure that those who need it be get the help they deserve . during COP28 , will the Prime Minister salute South West Bedfordshire ' s contribution to our nation ' s energy security for have have the tall wind turbine in England , the large battery in Europe and now the most powerful wind turbine in England , which have local support ? can we also ensure that my constituent now get cheap energy bill for host this vital infrastructure ? we be look exactly at how local community can benefit when new infrastructure be in their vicinity , as part of our new plan for increase energy security . may I commend my hon . friend ' s local area for the contribution it be make to our clean energy transition ? it be a great example of this country ' s fantastic track record in deliver net zero and decarbonise fast than any other major economy , not something we will hear from the Labour party , but something that those of we on the Government Benches be very proud of . the Government fail in their legal duty to publish a report on spike by April , state that they be reconsider whether their rationale for not introduce a specific offence for spike be sound . will the Prime Minister clarify when and if the spike report will ever be publish ? do he agree with I and colleague right across the House that the only sound approach to this issue be to create a specific criminal offence for spike ? this issue have be review by legal police colleague . my late understanding be that exist law do cover the offence of spiking , but I be happy , of course , to ensure that the hon . Lady get a letter that explain the position . not content with be the third - most indebted council in England , with a debt of £ 670 million , Liberal Democrat Eastleigh Borough Council recently refinance its fail one Heaton Heath housing project to the tune of £ 148 million , with no house build and interest payment of £ 386 , 000 per month . will the Prime Minister now ask the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities to intervene and independently investigate the development ? may I ask for a meeting with the relevant Minister to discuss this terrible decision by Eastleigh Borough Council ? I be aware that some local authority , include the one my hon . friend mention , have take excessive risk with borrowing and investment practice . that be why we have take a range of measure to strengthen the regulatory framework to prevent that from happen . they include new power that make it quick and easy for the Government to step in when council take on excessive risk through borrowing . I will ensure that he get a meeting with the relevant Minister to raise his concern , because his constituent deserve well . National Energy Action say that 13 % of North Tynesiders be in fuel poverty , 3 , 000 home have legacy prepayment meter and we be in the bottom 5 % for energy efficiency , but the Chancellor announce no new funding to help people this winter . we be now in advent , so what Christmas message do the Prime Minister have for my constituent who be freeze in their home ? as I outline , we have provide considerable support for particularly vulnerable family this year and through this winter . we be also invest record sum in improve the energy efficiency and insulation of vulnerable home through our home upgrade scheme and the warm home discount , which on average can save people hundred of pound on their energy bill when they receive that support . we be expand those programme across the country , include in the north - east . the prosecutor of the International Criminal Court , Karim Khan KC , have conclude his first visit to Israel and Palestine , and have say : " we must show that the law be there , on the front line , and that it be capable of protect all " . what support will Britain offer the International Criminal Court to enable it to conduct investigation of the conduct of all party in Israel , Gaza and the west bank before and since 7 October ? as be well know , we be a strong and long - stand supporter of the International Criminal Court . when it come to the situation in Gaza , we have be consistent in say that international humanitarian law have to be respect . all party must take every possible step to avoid harm civilian , and I can say that I stress that point specifically just yesterday to Prime Minister Netanyahu . the Prime Minister be aware that the household tax know as the television licence fee be due to rise in April in line with inflation . give the ongoing household budget constraint with which all our constituent be face , such as increase childcare cost , as well as ongoing unresolved staffing issue at BBC Northern Ireland , national BBC television and national BBC radio , be this really the right time to proceed with an even large £ 3 . 7 billion licence fee budget , enhance yet again ? we have already agree a fair settlement with the BBC that will see the licence fee remain frozen until 2024 . however , the hon . Member have raise an excellent point . I have be clear about the fact that the BBC need to be realistic about what be possible in an environment like this , and the licence fee should rise only at a level that people can actually afford . the Culture Secretary have say that " we be look at " this issue right now , and she will set out more detail in due course . Longton , the large town in my constituency , have not benefit from future high street funding , from town deal , or from the late long - term plan for town . will my right hon . friend ensure that it can have some investment from the Government , and do he agree that some of the late National Lottery Heritage Fund award to Stoke - on - Trent should definitely be invest there ? my hon . friend be a tireless champion for his local community . I know that there have be considerable investment in his area over the past few year in plenty of way , but he have make an excellent point about make sure that no one miss out on the considerable resource that be be invest in Stoke , and I will ensure that the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities take his concern very seriously . rise — order . we be run way over time . I appreciate it would be a great disappointment to member whose name be on the Order Paper if they be not call , so I be try my good to call they all , but may I please make a plea for brevity ? when the Prime Minister be take a dip in his pool or be on the beach at his place in California , he do not have to worry about swim in sewage . the rest of we do not have it so good , so why will he not back Labour ' s plan for criminal liability for water company boss who fail to clean up their act ? we have already bring in regulation that ensure there can be unlimited fine for water company , and there have be dozen of criminal prosecution . I would also say , however , that when we have a debate in the House on exactly a plan that would do all this , who do not show up to vote ? it be the Labour party . in recent week I have see at first hand the extraordinary work conduct by specialist care staff in accident and emergency unit . as politician , we be often guilty of use the NHS as a political football , but when it become personal , one be remind that what we have in the UK be very special . will the Prime Minister join I in thank our superb NHS staff in Bracknell , across Berkshire , in neighbour Basingstoke and Frimley Park Hospitals , and beyond ? nhs staff be at the heart of what make our health service work . there would not be an NHS without they — without their skill , their expertise and their dedication . I be delighted I could pay they my thank last week in person . I join my hon . friend in thank NHS staff not just in his constituency but across the country for their dedicated hard work and public service . it be now six year since Bishop James Jones publish the Hillsborough report , and only today , finally , do we get the Government ' s response . when will the Government introduce not just a voluntary charter , an independent public advocate or a code of ethical policing , but a full Hillsborough law to force those in public office to co - operate fully with investigation , and to guarantee fair funding to enable those affect by a major tragedy to challenge public institution ? as I have say , I be profoundly sorry for what the Hillsborough family have be through , and my right hon . friend the Justice Secretary will be make a full statement immediately after pmq . I refer member to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . have work as a junior doctor , I understand that it be a demanding job and have sympathy with the challenge they face . however , the strike that be plan for the festive period threaten public safety and will delay treatment . cause patient suffer in the pursuit of more money for oneself be , in my view , morally indefensible . what concrete step be the Prime Minister take to prevent the strike , and will he bring forward minimum service legislation to protect patient in case they do go ahead ? my hon . friend make an excellent point and speak from a position of experience on this issue . the Government have now reach settlement with every other part of the public sector , include , most recently , consultant , and I be grateful to they for their constructive engagement with the Government . the junior doctor be take action in the face of a recommendation from an independent body of a 9 % pay rise , on average — the high increase across the entire public sector . the Government have go beyond that in conversation with they , but they have still decide to take damaging strike action . it be wrong , and that be why we have introduce minimum service level , to ensure that we can guarantee a safe level of care for patient across the NHS . it would be good to hear from the Labour party , at some point , whether they will get off the fence , condemn these strike and back these minimum service law . universal credit be break . one constituent tell I that the Department for Work and Pensions be refuse to reimburse her childcare payment because it be four day late due to a phone be break . she be down £ 1 , 200 and be unable to pay for childcare . she have lose her job and will likely have to move house . with three week to go before Christmas , she be extremely anxious and distressed . do the Prime Minister realise the real consequence for real people of this break system ? I be sorry to hear about the circumstance of the hon . Lady ' s constituent . if the hon . Lady write to I , I will make sure that we get specific support in place for her constituent and ensure that she can access what she need . when it come to universal credit , I strongly disagree with the hon . Lady . it be only because of the action of my right hon . friend the Member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) that universal credit be implement , and the only reason we be able to get support to million of vulnerable people during the pandemic be that we have replace the legacy system with universal credit , and that be oppose at every step by the Labour party . it be always a pleasure to work closely with my right hon . friend the Member for Montgomeryshire ( Craig Williams ) in deliver important project , such as the Llanymynech - Pant bypass on the border with north Shropshire , and today be another example of our partnership . he be unfortunately unable to ask a question , give his role as the Prime Minister ' s parliamentary private Secretary , so will the Prime Minister join I in highlight my right hon . friend ' s work with the Famers Union of Wales in organise the terrific celebration of Montgomeryshire Day in the Jubilee Room straight after Question Time ? my hon . friend be an excellent campaigner for his constituent , as indeed be my right hon . friend the Member for Montgomeryshire ( Craig Williams ) . it be fantastic to see these local project be deliver in their area — and I be grateful to my right hon . friend for teach I how to pronounce " Pant - Llanymynech " for my first Budget . I be delighted to declare from the Dispatch Box that today be now officially Montgomeryshire Day , and I look forward to everyone celebrate in the Jubilee Room straight after Question Time . I beg your indulgence briefly , Madam Deputy Speaker , to wish my constituent who be attack in yesterday ' s serious incident in Aberfan a speedy recovery . I thank the emergency service and school staff for their swift and professional response . Britain be get small on the world stage on this Prime Minister ' s watch . his climate failure mean that our child and grandchild will bear the brunt of the cost . his plan be undermine Britain ' s energy security and bill be still sky high for work family , yet he be hike the tax burden and real living standard be fall by more than 3 % . tinker with a reset just do not compensate for 13 year of failure , do it , Prime Minister ? first , can I say that my thought be with the victim and her family after the awful incident that take place on the street of Aberfan ? we wish they a full and speedy recovery , and I join the hon . gentleman in thank the emergency service for their immediate response . the hon . Gentleman talk about leave our child and grandchild with cost . he be right to raise that because it be important that we do not do that . the question , then , for he and the Labour party be : why do they want to embark on a green borrowing spree of £ 28 billion a year that will just mean high taxis for our child and grandchild and high mortgage rate ? it be the same old story : reckless borrowing and the british people pay the price . hillsborough : Bishop James Jones Report with permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I would like to make a statement on the Government ' s response to Bishop James Jones ' s report , " ' the patronising disposition of unaccountable power ' — a report to ensure the pain and suffering of the Hillsborough family be not repeat " , and on the step we will take to respond to the point of learning contain therein . Bishop James have do our nation a great service and his report be an exceptional piece of work . I salute the Hillsborough family for the assiduous care they have give to help to create the report and forge the response that flow from it . I have the privilege of meet many of the family in Liverpool in June this year , alongside the former Home Secretary . I be deeply move to hear of their experience , and by the dignity with which they share they , but perhaps even more affecting be their unflinche determination to make sense of the senseless and bring about change for other . that be the true mark of compassion : campaign selflessly for change , know that nothing that any Government can do will bring back their own love one or temper their grief . the Hillsborough family have , through their determined effort over decade , create a lasting legacy — a national legacy — that be a tribute to their love one . at the start of his report , Bishop James express his hope that " we might be a well nation for have listen to they . " we be , and they deserve the thank of our nation . I also pay tribute to those in this House who continue to campaign on behalf of the Hillsborough family and for family bereave by other tragedy , include the right hon . member for Garston and Halewood ( Maria Eagle ) and the hon . member for Halton ( Derek Twigg ) , for Wirral South ( Alison McGovern ) and for Liverpool , West Derby ( Ian Byrne ) . I thank former member of the House who have give important support to the family , include Steve Rotheram and Andy Burnham , and I of course thank the former Prime Minister , my right hon . friend the Member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) . I also thank Glenn Taylor for his vital work on the ongoing independent forensic pathology review . quite apart from its important recommendation , Bishop James ' s report lay bare the truly devastating experience of those bereave by the Hillsborough disaster on 15 April 1989 . an unimaginable tragedy unfold : 97 innocent man , woman and child ultimately lose their life ; hundred more be injure and traumatise by what they see . but for Hillsborough ' s bereaved and survivor , that terrible day be only day one of an endure ordeal , and in the day and decade thereafter , it become clear that they suffer a double injustice . first , there be the abject failure of the police and other at the ground to protect their love one — failure describe in Lord Justice Taylor ' s 1990 report as " blunder of the first magnitude " . then , they face year of unforgivable institutional defensiveness . secondly , the Hillsborough family and survivor suffer what can only be describe as cruelty , as innocent fan be cynically blame for their own death . but that , as be later to become clear , be a web of lie spin by those seek to protect their own reputation . I emphasise that point because although the disaster may have be more than 34 year ago , such baseless narrative inexplicably persist in some quarter today , so let I take this important opportunity to restate what be not a matter of opinion , but unassailable fact : fan attend Hillsborough stadium on 15 April 1989 bear absolutely no responsibility for the death and injury that occur . in make that statement , I echo what be say seven year ago by my right hon . friend the Member for Maidenhead at this Dispatch Box when she read out the full finding of the second inquest — namely , that 96 man , woman and child be unlawfully kill . since then , Andrew Devine , who suffer life - change injury at Hillsborough , pass away on 27 July 2021 , become the 97th fatality of the disaster . I would like to place on record my deep sympathy to Mr Devine ' s family and friend , and indeed to all those who lose love one . the Government ' s response to Bishop James ' s report have be a long time come — too long . for some of that time , it be necessarily hold back to avoid prejudice the outcome of criminal trial , but there have be delay since and I recognise that this have only compound the pain of the Hillsborough family and survivor . the Government apologise for that . as the House will be aware , the Government ' s response follow that of the police , which be publish in January this year . today , the Chief Coroner be also publish his response , which relate to his leadership role regard the coronial service . collectively , these response address the point raise by Bishop James , but this do not stop here . we will , of course , continue to listen to the family of those involve in all major incident and to their concern . Bishop James ' s report contain 25 point of learning . while he say that he consider each to be " vitally important " , he be clear that three in particular be , to use his word , " crucial " , so let I turn to those . first , he propose the creation of a charter for family bereave through public tragedy . Bishop James make it clear that he want to " help bring about cultural change " through commitment to change " relate to transparency and act in the public interest . " it be worth reflect that , in set out point of learn 13 regard the Hillsborough law , which I will come on to , Bishop James say that he have " draw heavily " on that law ' s principle in the drafting of the charter , so it be worth take a moment to consider the language of that charter . it commit signatory — the leader of public body — to strive to place the public interest above the reputation of their own organisation ; to approach all form of public scrutiny , include public inquiry and inquest , with candour in an open , honest and transparent way ; and to avoid seek to defend the indefensible . the Deputy Prime Minister have today sign what will be know as the Hillsborough charter on behalf of the Government . other signatory to the charter include the National Police Chiefs ' Council on behalf of all 43 police force , the College of Policing , the Crown Prosecution Service , the National Fire Chiefs Council and other . we want the charter to become part of the culture of what it mean to be a public servant in Britain , so the Deputy Prime Minister will be write to all Departments to ensure that everyone who work in Government be aware of the Hillsborough charter and what it mean for the way they work . a reference to the charter will also be add to the central induction to the civil service for all new joiner . the Hillsborough charter and Bishop James ' s report have also be add to the curriculum for every recruit who join the police . this charter will now be embed in our public life . the second crucial point of learn from Bishop James ' s report be what he describe as the " press need " for the " proper participation of bereaved family at inquest " . inquest be , first and foremost , about answer four question : who , where , when and how an individual have die . however , as Bishop James highlight , the Hillsborough family be let down by the very process that should have give they answer during the first inquest , and they then have to endure a second , which have be order by my right hon . friend the Member for Maidenhead . at the first inquest , the family be force to fund their own legal representation , with a single barrister between they . we recognise that proper involvement in an inquest will , in appropriate case , mean that bereaved family should get legal representation , especially when the state be represent . that be why change have be make such that , have the Hillsborough tragedy happen today , the family would have be eligible for free legal aid through the exceptional case funding scheme . the Government be determined to make this process as straightforward as possible , which be why in January 2022 the Ministry of Justice remove the mean test for representation in relation to ECF case and in September 2023 the mean test be remove for legal advice at inquest . we want to build on this progress , so I can announce today that we will consult on an expansion of legal aid for family bereave through public disaster where an independent public advocate be engage — I will come back to that — or in the aftermath of a terrorist incident . I acknowledge that Bishop James talk broadly about the proper participation of bereaved family at inquest where the state be represent . we will seek to far understand the experience of these individual , and I would welcome a conversation with Bishop James on that early in the new year . we support the principle raise in Bishop James ' s report that public body should not be able to spend " limitless " public fund on legal representation . that be why we have , for the first time , set out a requirement on Government Departments to " consider the number of lawyer instruct bear in mind the commitment to support an inquisitorial approach . " we will now go on to set out that central Government public body should publish their spend on legal representation at inquest and inquiry , reaffirm that this spend should be proportionate , and never excessive . we have also publish a set of principle to guide how public body should instruct lawyer at inquest . these include a requirement to approach the inquest with openness and honesty and to keep in mind that the bereaved should be at the heart of the inquest process . we will also publish guidance to set the clear expectation that central Government public body must instruct their lawyer in accordance with the principle of the Hillsborough charter , because how lawyer engage with the inqu process and with the bereaved family matter . I shall turn to the third of Bishop James ' s three crucial point of learn : a duty of candour for police officer . as he describe it , there be " a gap in police accountability arrangement " for officer who " fail to cooperate fully with investigation into alleged criminal offence or misconduct . " that be why a new offence of police corruption , applicable to police and National Crime Agency officer be introduce in 2017 , punishable by up to 14 year ' imprisonment . in 2020 , we update the Police ( Conduct ) regulation to introduce a new duty to co - operate for individual officer during investigation and inquiry . failure to do so can result in disciplinary sanction , include dismissal . last month , we introduce legislation to place an organisational duty of candour on police . through the Criminal Justice Bill , we will place a duty on the College of Policing to issue a code of practice for ethical policing , and for that code to include a duty of candour . this duty be design to promote a culture of openness , honesty and transparency , and chief constable will be hold to account for their force ' performance against the code . the new code of practice have be lay in Parliament today . we want to go beyond the police to consider healthcare setting too . in response to recent concern about openness in those setting , we will be conduct a review into the effectiveness of the exist duty of candour for health and social care provider — the term of reference for that have be publish today . I be aware that the Hillsborough law call for a duty of candour on all public authority . since the Hillsborough disaster , a comprehensive framework of duty and obligation have develop , which cover public official and the different official proceeding , such as inquest and inquiry . first , in central Government , the civil service code require civil servant to act with honesty and integrity . a breach of the code can result in a range of sanction , include dismissal . this sit alongside the nolan principle provide that : " holder of public office should act solely in term of the public interest . " secondly , the legal framework surround criminal investigation , statutory inquiry , inquest and most other formal proceeding require that all individual , regardless of whether they be a public official , co - operate with they . for example , there be a duty of candour in judicial review , which amount to a duty on public authority to lay card " face up on the table " . when it come to inquiry , importantly , these carry the potential for custodial sanction — prison sentence in plain English . thirdly , where a public official demonstrate a lack of candour , and where this form part of their duty as a public office holder , they can potentially be guilty of misconduct in public office , which be a criminal offence . we will keep these change under review to ensure that we achieve that culture of openness , honesty and candour , and we will not rule out take further action if it be need . today , the Government respond to all 25 point of learning , but I have focus this statement on those that Bishop James describe as " crucial " . very meaningful progress have be make , but we will not hesitate to go far if require . the discussion will continue , and the Government have commit to another debate in the new year to ensure that that dialogue progress . I would also be happy to meet the Hillsborough family should they wish to discuss any aspect of the Government ' s response . finally , I turn to improvement in the justice system . Bishop James make it searingly clear that the justice system , which should have support victim and the bereaved after the tragedy , be not set up to do so . our response set out the step this Government have take to ensure that bereaved family and survivor in the immediate aftermath of a public tragedy be guide through what can be a difficult , complicated and forbidding process . through the Victims and Prisoners Bill , we have introduce legislation to enable an independent public advocate . once establish , the IPA will be a strong voice for victim , the bereaved and whole community affect by major incident . the IPA , as promise by my right hon . friend the Member for Maidenhead , will make sure that those affect by major incident know their right , can access support service , and have their voice hear at inquest and inquiry . its design have be inform by the very difficulty that the Hillsborough family face and our commitment to make sure that other family do not suffer the same injustice . that can include hold public body to account for their commitment to abide by the Hillsborough charter . I be also grateful for the contribution of some of the family of victim of the Grenfell Tower fire and of the Manchester Arena bombing , tell we what would have help they most in the aftermath of those terrible event . after listen to concern of the Hillsborough family , set out so powerfully when I meet they early this year , as well as contribution from colleague across the House — I be look at the right hon . member for Garston and Halewood here — I decide that we must go far by establish a permanent IPA . it be vital that the IPA can be deploy as soon as possible after disaster strike and that they have time in advance to be as prepare as possible . a permanent advocate will be able to advise the Government on their response to major incident , such as any subsequent inquiry or review , and will ensure that the view of family be hear . importantly , they will also report independently to government about the experience of victim and bereaved family , as well as publish an annual report . all such report will be lay before Parliament . the Hillsborough family have be unrelenting in their pursuit of justice , and Bishop James have do essential work to support the family and have faithfully discharge the commission put upon he by the then Home Secretary and former Prime Minister to capture their perspective , so that it be not lose follow the second inquest . today be therefore an important day . it do not provide closure for the family , of course . as Bishop James himself write , " there can be no closure to love , nor should there be for someone you have love and lose . " . Grief be indeed a journey without a destination . but today be a milestone on that journey . it be a moment , I hope , when family will feel able to pause and take quiet pride in the enormity of what they have achieve , not for themselves , but for other — for the british people . but I hope they will serve to cement and strengthen the Hillsborough family ' legacy — the change they have make to benefit an entire nation and to help ensure that never again can our people be so betray by the very organisation and institution mean to protect they . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Minister . it be customary to thank the Government for advance sight of the statement , but give the gravity of this matter , the fact that the report be respond to have be with the Government for many year and the length of the Secretary of State ' s statement this morning , I be disappointed to have receive the copy of his statement much later than be customary . to describe the event of 15 April 1989 as " far - reach " be wholly inadequate . to say that they be " tragic " miss the point . the name " Hillsborough " stand to this day as an indictment of institution , individual and an entire culture in which transparency , accountability and even simple human compassion be absent . I be a child in 1989 , when 95 people die at Hillsborough stadium in the bad sporting disaster in this nation ' s history . ten year later , alongside thousand of other law student , I learn about the shockwave that the event of that day be still send through our court , to the continue pain of the family . that include the death in 1993 of the 96th victim , 22 - year - old Anthony Bland , who spend four year in a persistent vegetative state before a court make legal history by agree that it be in his good interest to withdraw his feeding tube . let we not forget that it be just two year ago that the disaster claim its 97th victim , 55 - year - old Andrew Devine , who have live with a serious brain injury for more than three decade . it have now be 34 year , and to say that justice delay be justice deny would be a significant understatement in this context . it be simply unendurable for any family to be make to wait this long for justice . I wish to echo the word of the Secretary of State by pay tribute to Bishop James Jones ; to the many campaigner , both inside and outside this House , who have work for so long to establish the truth ; and , above all , to the bereaved family . they have go beyond what anyone should have to endure to secure justice not only for their love one but for the victim of future disaster . they be an inspiration , and I speak for the whole House in say that all of we here know the debt we owe to all of they . I turn to the detail of the remark by the Secretary of State . the purpose of the Government ' s response must be centre on the experience of the family , just as Bishop James ' s report be , to ensure that their suffering be remember and , crucially , be never repeat . that be the commitment that the opposition , too , make : we will work to ensure that the Government ' s proposal deliver meaningful justice . we welcome the commitment to consult on expand legal aid for family bereave in a public disaster , but there be nothing in what we have see from the Government to date that go as far as we believe be necessary to require public authority to act with candour and transparency . to the public , a duty on all public body to be forthcoming with the truth be a basic requirement if justice be to be do in the wake of terrible event that scar community and change life forever . many will be shock to hear that this do not already exist as a matter of law . the Hillsborough Law now campaign which , as the Government know , include bereaved family who be still fight for accountability 34 year later , have tell we that without an effective duty of candour in place , the risk be that reform will simply add another layer of bureaucracy to what victim must already endure . it be for this reason that over a year ago , the Leader of the opposition commit to a Hillsborough law that would first and foremost impose a legal duty on public institution , public servant and official to act in the public interest and with transparency , candour and frankness when there have be a major incident . the Secretary of State know that we have seek to amend his recent Bill to introduce that more effective duty of candour during its passage through Parliament , but it be an approach that the Government have so far reject . we will continue our effort in that regard , because the Government ' s requirement for a code of ethic be not enough . we also welcome the commitment to a standing , independent public advocate , and have support the change to the Victims and Prisoners Bill . however , as the Secretary of State know , we also believe — and have say to he repeatedly — that the duty of candour be the miss piece , and it be vital to add it to make effective the change that have be introduce in respect of the independent public advocate . this issue be above party politic , but we have a duty to say to the Government that what they have announce do not yet go far enough . they must deliver on that vital promise that what happen in 1989 , and have continue to happen to the family for 34 year , will never happen again . I thank the hon . Lady for her response , and I shall seek to address each point in turn . on the issue of legal aid , we absolutely accept that in this particular case there be a manifest and completely unacceptable lack of equality of arm , because it be treat as an adversarial process , which be completely inimical to what the inquiry should have be design to get to the bottom of . the culture be wrong , in term of how the lawyer approach it , and the equality of arm be non - existent . we have seek to address that in two way . first , in appropriate case that become adversarial because people be defensive as they have probably get something wrong , it be necessary for the family to have the legal arm to take that on . that be why , if this happen today , that funding would be in place . this be not small amount of funding ; the total amount spend , quite properly — I have no complaint about this — in the second inquest be around £ 65 million . this be a very significant change that have already be make . as I say , we be consult on whether we should go far still . the critical issue be , of course , about candour . the importance of change the culture run through Bishop James Jones ' report like a message through a stick of rock . across the House — as the hon . Lady rightly point out , this be not a party political issue — we must do everything possible to change that culture . on the IPA , it be important to note that in point of learn 1 , which be about the charter , Bishop James say : " I welcome the government ' s commitment … to create an independent public advocate to act for bereaved family after a public disaster . once a public advocate have be appoint , I offer the charter to they as a benchmark against which they may assess the way in which public body treat those bereave by public tragedy " , before go on to talk about the text of the charter . we hope that it will play a very important part in embed that culture and hold people to account , but this job be not over . we continue to have the discussion , and I look forward to engage with the hon . Lady about it . I thank the Lord Chancellor for his statement and welcome the Government ' s response , although like he , I bemoan the fact that it have take so long to respond to this report . not only do I commission it when I be in office , but it report when I be still in office . what underpin the approach of the organ of the state at Hillsborough be a desire to protect themselves and their reputation , rather than serve the public they be there to protect or , indeed , search for truth and justice . that attitude do not occur just on that day : it have continue from those public authority through the decade since . do my right hon . and learn Friend agree , therefore , that almost the most important point in the charter be that it require organisation to place the public interest above their own reputation ? what specific step will the Government be take to ensure that that culture be instill across the whole public sector . as always , my right hon . friend get to the heart of the matter . the critical and most important point in the charter be no . 2 : " place the public interest above our own reputation . " as my right hon . friend have say , those be word ; she have ask how they will be weave into the culture . one powerful example be that today , the code of practice for ethical policing be be publish . that code state in paragraph 4 . 5 on page 7 , under the chapter head " ensure openness and candour " , that " chief officer have a duty to ensure openness and candour within their force , which will include the following . implement the Charter for Families bereave through Public Tragedy ( see Hillsborough stadium disaster : lesson that must be learn ) . " it will be there at the point of training for officer and induction for civil servant . it be go to become part of the warp and weft of this country — part of the culture of what it mean to be a civil servant in Britain . as someone with great affection for the people of Liverpool and Merseyside , I start by say that our thought be once again with the Hillsborough family . I join the hon . member for Birmingham , Ladywood ( Shabana Mahmood ) in her qualified thank for advance sight of the statement . I be pleased that the Lord Chancellor thank and congratulate hon . member , as well as Andy Burnham and Steve Rotheram , for their work in this area . I have three question for the Lord Chancellor . first , the chief executive of the College of Policing have describe Hillsborough as a touchstone for change , but in the year since , we have sadly see a familiar culture of cover - up in relation to tragedy such as Grenfell and the infected blood scandal . the Lord Chancellor appear to accept the principle ; do he also accept that at some point , the public will tire of hear about promise cultural change without visible action accompany it ? secondly , no police officer have be discipline or convict of any offence relate to the Hillsborough disaster . do he agree that in case where it be prove that false evidence be give or inaccurate statement be make , retrospective action up to and include prosecution must take place ? finally , part of the reason why the police be able to avoid full scrutiny around Hillsborough for so long be irresponsible reporting of the disaster by section of the medium . be the Lord Chancellor convince that reform in that area have go far enough , or do he agree with many of we that more reform in that area be sadly need ? I thank the hon . gentleman for those helpful and pertinent question . let I turn first to the issue of the police . yes , it be one thing to set the culture , which , I think it be reasonable to point out , will now be weave into police training , but accountability matter , too . one thing that matter be that schedule 2 to the Police ( Conduct ) Regulations 2020 , which , of course , post - date the report , include the follow : police officer must be " honest , act with integrity and . . . not compromise or abuse their position " , and " police officer have a responsibility to give appropriate cooperation during investigation , inquiry and formal proceeding , participate openly and professionally in line with the expectation of a police officer when identify as a witness . " those standard be in the regulation . their breach would provide a powerful case , as the hon . Gentleman may think , for dismissal or other suitable sanction . on the hon . Gentleman ' s point about retrospectivity , plainly , if evidence come to light about behaviour at the time , it can be consider in the normal way . I hope that he will be encourage by know that the offence of misconduct in a public office be be consider by the Law Commission , with its usual and typical diligence , and we will respond in the new year . it be reasonable to observe that it have not operate as we might have like , and be susceptible to reform . we be give that very active attention . on the medium and irresponsible coverage , my goodness , the hon . Gentleman have a point . I think that there still need to be a live conversation about whether thing have go far enough . the delay in the report have be unacceptable , but it be absolutely no fault of my right hon . and learn Friend the Lord Chancellor . I thank he for his statement , for its tone , which be characteristically generous - spirited , and for the work that he have do to expedite it . do my right hon . and learn Friend agree that it will be important to pick up on some of the learning from two Justice Committee report on the coronial system and on pre - legislative scrutiny of the draft victim Bill ? do he agree that , to achieve the proper outcome of a legacy for the victim of Hillsborough , we should work to the position where it would be the norm for there to be proper legal representation for victim and bereaved family at inquest ? that should be the norm rather than any form of exception . secondly , do my right hon . and learn Friend agree that the duty of candour should extend , in term of legal representation by Government Departments , to the full and early possible disclosure of all relevant material that be in the hand of Departments and their lawyer ? thirdly , do he agree that we should work with the excellent current Chief Coroner , whose predecessor give powerful evidence to our Committee , to ensure that there be great consistency in the standard and approach within the coronial system , which have not always be the case in the past ? do he agree that those be important matter , together with the assurance of equality of arm across the piece ? those be very helpful point . first , I pay tribute to the Justice Committee for its work , particularly the work on coroner ' inquest . indeed , in preparation for this statement , I go back and re - read some of the evidence give by the then Chief Coroner , Mark Lucraft , in which he talk about this important issue of equality of arm . he make the point — from his position as Chief Coroner , no less — that , yes , there be of course case in which it be important to have legal representation . we have make enormous stride , as have be indicate . equally , there will be those in which legal representation sometimes do not help terribly . that be why we have to proceed with care . the key issue be equality of arm , as my hon . friend rightly point out . the business about candour as regard early disclosure be critical . one important point that can sometimes be lose be that , lest we forget , under section 35 of the Inquiries Act 2005 , it be possible for someone to be hold criminally liable , on pain of a custodial sentence , if they fail to act with candour in term of produce information to an inquiry . that , it seem to I , be an important sanction , and I hope that judge will not hesitate to use it in appropriate circumstance . Bishop James call his report " the patronising disposition of unaccountable power " — the key word be " unaccountable . " thirty - four year after 97 man , woman and child be unlawfully kill at a televise event , for which the public inquiry interim report pin the blame on the police within four month , no one have be hold accountable for what happen at Hillsborough , and now nobody will be . accountability be key here . although culture change be good , we need legal change , too . the failure to legislate for a full duty of candour for all public official or to put the charter for family bereave by public tragedy into statute be inexplicable . as the Lord Chancellor know , I still think that the independent public advocate ' s power need to be beef up as the Lord Chancellor know , I still think that the independent public advocate ' s power need to be beef up to include an ability to compel transparency and be a data controller in order to torpedo attempt to cover up — what go wrong at Hillsborough be a cover - up , as much as anything . will the Lord Chancellor reconsider his apparent unwillingness to legislate to make it clear that this House and our nation require accountability , require candour and require public authority and those who work for they to act in the good interest of those bereave in the appalling public tragedy that have occur and will continue to occur ? I thank the right hon . Lady and say , entirely fairly , I hope , that the merit in this response — and it can reasonably be observe that there be a great number — be due in considerable part to her effort in engage with I to make change and improvement . on the issue of the independent public advocate , for example , there be no doubt — other have feed in as well , not least my right hon . friend the Member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) , the former Prime Minister — that the IPA will be permanent . that be not the original proposal . it will be able to make report of its own motion come before this House , and not just at the instigation of the state . it will also be able to make recommendation about what sort of inquiry should take place afterwards . that could be , as the right hon . Lady know , some sort of independent panel along the line of the one set up by Alan Johnson as Home Secretary , or it could be a statutory or non - statutory inquiry . this IPA be of a different order of muscularity from the one originally envisage , and the right hon . Lady have play an important part in that . the right hon . Lady and I have discuss the Hillsborough law . there be countervail consideration , as she know , but the point be that my door remain open , the conversation remain live and we will have a debate about the issue , I hope , in the new year . I look forward to discuss these matter far . my right hon . and learn Friend ' s statement go some way to tackle the institutional behaviour that put the reputational damage of organisation and public confidence in they ahead of the interest of the people they be mean to serve , but his comment have be very much in the context of major public incident . how far do he think the expectation enshrine in the charter can be apply to individual case ? I speak with particular reference to suicide . quite often , bereaved family attend inquest where the player be keen to avoid any suggestion of liability ; that could conflict with what he have describe in term of a duty of candour . I be so grateful to my hon . friend for raise that critical point . the issue be not just about major disaster , important though they be . when something dreadful have happen , the victim and family do not want to find themselves in an unnecessarily adversarial situation or one where people be , frankly , try to save their own skin and show institutional defensiveness . a lot of the issue come down to culture , frankly ; we be aware of that . there be two thing to say . first , on the equality of arm , if exceptional case funding be involve — that be to do with article 2 ; there be certain threshold — there will be legal representation . on culture , we have provide a new document , which include the principle guide the Government ' s approach when they hold interested person status at an inquest . those include approach " the inquest with openness and honesty , include support the disclosure of all relevant and disclosable information to the coroner . " in other word , the state should not be in the position of be defensive , whether there have be a major disaster or the case relate only to an individual . I thank the Lord Chancellor for his statement today and for the empathy and decency he have show on the subject of Hillsborough . I also thank he for his word about football supporter not be to blame ; that mean a lot to a lot of people . I be sorry , but that be where my thank you end . like many other , I feel let down today — as if we be a world away from the effective legislation that we desperately need . I be really worried that what have be decide will not prevent another hillsborough - style state cover - up . Bishop James Jones call for a duty of candour on police officer , but the Government ' s Criminal Justice Bill mention the duty of candour in clause 73 only in the context of a code of conduct . I feel that that be an insult to those affect by state cover - up and to the memory of the 97 . it do not establish or define the duty in law and provide no mechanism for compliance . crucially , the Government will not today introduce a statutory duty of candour on all public official , as demand by Hillsborough Law now campaigner and , thankfully , support by my own party . Secretary of State , without a legal duty of candour on all public servant hard - wire into our justice system , we will see continued injustice from public official who lie on the stand , act with impunity and no consequence . I have hope that today the Secretary of State would push back against the powerful vested interest that do not want to see this accountability in law , but , sadly , I feel as though they have win once again . will the Secretary of State reflect on the comment from across the House and work with we to ensure that we get a true Hillsborough law that the 97 , and everyone else who have suffer injustice at the hand of the state , fully deserve ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his word at the outset . I listen very carefully to what he say subsequently . he ask I if I will reflect . of course I will reflect . I will listen very carefully to what have be say . we be here to respond to Bishop James ' s report , which be not principally about the point that have move on since , which I know we all recognise . we want to change the culture . we remain committed to change the culture , and I will continue to have conversation about how we achieve that most effectively . I be just reflect on the fact that the last time we be here in the Chamber talk about this issue we be advise that the response would be produce in spring , so it be welcome to have it today . I welcome its general tone and nature . it be not just a lack of interest in find the truth that be the issue ; it be the fact that organ of the state set out to smear people , to lie and to cover up in order to save their own skin . we can say that it be 30 year ago , but we see worrying similarity at the Stade de France — although it be not in our jurisdiction — when there be an attempt to blame fan for a complete overreaction from the french law enforcement authority to some incident there . I find it interesting when the Secretary of State talk about the spend on legal representation , which be often disproportionate . he say it will be proportionate . who will determine that ? let we remember that some of the public body think it be perfectly proportionate to waste million of pound on try to save their own skin , rather than on find justice . that be an excellent point . my hon . Friend ask who will determine what be proportionate . the whole point about encourage department to publish material be that the public can make an assessment of whether it be proportionate . frankly , that be an ordinary english word and people should know what it mean . if they do not , that will become clear . I , too , thank the Lord Chancellor for today ' s statement , which , as he concede , be long overdue . I add my tribute to my right hon . friend the Member for Garston and Halewood ( Maria Eagle ) for the painstaking work she do to expose the evidence that exist but have never be take into account . I also pay tribute to the right hon . member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) , who recognise that there be an injustice that have to be put right and who set up the process by which Bishop James be able to bring all the lie and cover - up to light . follow the Hillsborough disaster , I and two of my constituent — Mr and Mrs Joynes , who have lose a son at Hillsborough — attend part of the first inquest . I be shock by the extent to which that inquest be such a travesty ; it seem to be aim at blame the fan , rather than the authority , for what happen . one thing that come out of that — I have say this before — be that there be a massive effort to stereotype football fan as responsible for something they be actually victim of . I welcome the fact that there will be a public advocate , but to be absolutely certain , we need to put that role on the statute book . I thank the right hon . gentleman for the support he have give to his constituent . I can confirm that the IPA be be put on the statute book . I be grateful to my right hon . and learn Friend the Lord Chancellor for bring forward today ' s statement . Hillsborough be synonymous with cover - up . innocent victim be blame for the failure of the police and the emergency service , and whistleblower be pivotal in bring forward a lot of the evidence . it be important that we have a duty of candour within the police service . right across public service , candour should be the golden thread that link they together . with whistleblower be so important on this issue and other , will he also look at have an office for the whistleblow so that , rather than simply rely on the duty of candour , people in organisation would know where to go to raise an issue or to get help ? I thank my hon . friend for that typically thoughtful and helpful suggestion . she make an excellent point . already in the civil service code , there ought to be arrangement for people to do precisely that , but , if we need to go far , let we discuss that . I would be happy to have that conversation with she . I wonder if I could explore with the Lord Chancellor what he say about Bishop James ' s recommendation on the press need for the proper participation of bereaved family at inquest . in the summer , the Joint Committee on Human Rights hold an evidence session on a propose Hillsborough law and strengthen human right . we be particularly interested in the impact of the inequality of funding for legal representative between the state and bereaved family at inquest and inquiry . in evidence , witness argue strongly that there should be proportionate equality of arm , distinguish that from mere parity of arm , and they see the wide use of exceptional case funding for article 2 case as one way of achieve that . do he agree with that evidence ? the hon . and learn Lady make an excellent point . of course , we think there should be equality of arm . the only point of potential hesitation come from the evidence of the Chief Coroner — as I say , I be read that in my preparation — who say that there be some case where although the state be represent and be an interested party , add lawyer would not necessarily assist . as he put it in paragraph 97 of his write evidence : " there be also argument which could be advanced that simply add more lawyer in to the system would not necessarily , uniformly help bereaved family in all case . " in our view , it will depend on the case . there will be some case — this be one — where it be manifestly necessary . there be other where there must be a more judicious approach . I be privileged to be able to watch regular football in Bracknell , Reading and Aldershot . follow the Lord Chancellor ' s statement , be he content that sufficient legal and institutional protection be in place to help prevent another event like Hillsborough ? I think that most recognise that significant change have take place . I hope we can feel confident that something like that could not happen , but , in the dreadful event that it be to , we need to be sure that the resource and support be in place so that family do not have to suffer as those year ago do . I thank the Lord Chancellor for the manner in which he open his statement , but it be really not good enough that it have take so long to get to this point . I want to put on record my deep disappointment that we have wait this long for today . I also think that to get the change that have be describe , what be be propose be not good enough . to achieve what we want through the legal process require , as the right hon . member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) point out so correctly , public body to place the public interest — that of the citizen of our country — above the reputation of their own organisation . as the Lord Chancellor say , it be not just about who be represent but about how lawyer engage in the inquest process and indeed with the bereaved family . it be about not just about establish inquest and inquiry but the culture of candour day in , day out , which he talk about . I be not a lawyer — he be — but I think that lawyer respond to the law . that be at the heart of why we be so disappointed not to have a Hillsborough law . I do not want a debate in January ; I want a law . will he meet I and other Members of the House to discuss how we move forward from this point ? my door be always open . of course , I will speak to the hon . Lady and other . it be also important to recognise that part of the statutory framework have move on . I have talk about the Police ( Conduct ) Regulations 2020 , for example , and I recognise , as do Bishop James Jones , that the key thing we want to do be to change the culture , and the law play a part in that . there have be change , so let we have a discussion in due course . we can not repeat often enough , because I do not think it be understand , just what a web of deceit and lie be put forward by part of the state , particularly the police and other , over the year . that have an effect on the family who lose love one . I be there on the day , in those terrible circumstance . we do not forget how bad it be . I sit through a number of day of the second inquest , and lie be still be tell until the family ' lawyer produce video evidence to say , " there you be . you didn ' t do what you say . " I be astounded . all those year later and people stick to those lie . as I say to the Justice Secretary early , we can have a culture change , but what happen at that inquest , and all the way up to it , show that the problem be so deep that it need something strong . that be why the duty of candour need a basis in legislation . I understand that there be some issue , whether it be national security or confidentiality , but we can get round that . the Justice Secretary have indicate that he will listen , so will he listen and make sure there be a legal , statutory duty ? I thank the hon . Gentleman , who speak with particular authority on these point . he talk about the second inquest , at which people continue to demonstrate a kind of institutional defensiveness . he may feel that what make a difference be that lawyer be there to hold people to account — that be the equality of arm point . I respectfully suggest that it be important to recognise that we be now in a situation where , in this kind of case , there will be lawyer to try to expose precisely that kind of defensiveness , which be extremely important . I deeply respect the point that he make , but he know there be countervail issue , to which he briefly advert . of course , we will have a conversation in due course . there be member of this House who have not be bear when Hillsborough happen , and we have all have life , career and family . for the family of the victim to have wait that length of time for justice be intolerable , and it have be compound by not have the one thing that would ensure they feel justice — the knowledge that it can not happen again . do the Lord Chancellor agree that perhaps the only way the family will ever feel they have justice be if we have a Hillsborough law to prevent it from happen again ? the critical thing , of course , be that we have to change the culture and ensure that people be hold to account for that culture . there be important change in these measure , as I hope the House will agree . I have indicate that I be prepared to discuss what further step be require . it have take six year to get to today ' s Hillsborough charter but , like many , I ask why it be not a Hillsborough law . the delay for the family of the 97 have be completely unacceptable . can I press the Lord Chancellor again on why the Government have launch a consultation on improve legal aid for victim of public disaster ? why not simply legislate to do it ? because we have already take very great step . as I indicate , the sum involve be very significant . the second inquest alone be around £ 65 million . we be consult on go far in respect of terrorism and case where the IPA be appoint , but as no less authority than a former Chief Coroner have indicate , one have to proceed with caution in this space . we will have a consultation , and we will take sensible step thereafter . I start by pay tribute to the family and my city for their determination for justice , and to James Jones for his report . however , six year and seven home Secretaries later , it do not go far enough . we need a duty of candour , so can the Lord Chancellor confirm that the family seek justice for Grenfell and Manchester Arena will get the support and the justice they deserve ? I thank the hon . Lady , and she be absolutely right that there need to be a duty of candour . indeed , that be the single most important thing that come out of the Hillsborough charter , and it will be buttress and support , and people will be hold to account , by an independent public advocate . on the duty of candour set out in the " Code of Practice for Ethical Policing " , which have be publish today , why be the duty to " ensure openness and candour " only on chief officer ? why be it not on every individual officer ? well , it be . there be two aspect to this . under the code , it be right that chief officer should have to be responsible for the culture and practice within their organisation . but there be also a further duty that exist on police officer , through the 2020 regulation I refer to early , and those can of course sound in disciplinary sanction , include dismissal . so it be available for both . contaminate blood , Grenfell , Hillsborough — the one thing they all have in common be that ordinary people suffer an incredible tragedy , and then the authority and the establishment circle the wagon to deny they justice . what this report have expose be a failure at the centre of the establishment to serve the public . this report be call for candour from the people who represent such public body , so why be it that the Government , after all this time , have come back and say no to that one request ? respectfully , that be not quite a fair representation . Bishop James Jones , in his point of learn 1 , talk about the Hillsborough charter , and in paragraph 3 of that recommendation , he talk about candour . we have accept that entirely . Bishop James Jones ' s report be not about the law , although he advert to it . as I have say , we be go to have further discussion , but it be important to notice what step have be take thus far . People , include those personally affect by the Hillsborough tragedy , will have listen to the Government ' s response today and be deeply disappointed . what be need , among other thing , be a duty of candour right across all public organisation , but also private organisation that be public - face , such as those involve in social housing , for example . what be also need be real equality of arm — not just some legal aid for the bereaved , but full equality of arm , mean the same spending for victim as for public body . the opposition support a Hillsborough law , and a Hillsborough law be necessary , as the family have call for , to deliver this . since the opposition support it , the Government could have get this through and pass it in a number of week , and they still can . I urge the Government , before the next general election , to work with the Opposition across the House to get this pass . it be what the bereaved family and those community deserve , and it be what people in future deserve as well . I thank the hon . gentleman for his observation , which I listen to with care . on the issue of equality of arm , it have to be observe , I hope , that the change that have be make be extremely significant , not least because there be a commitment to ensure be proportionality , so we can no long go back to a situation where the state be apparently use its deep pocket to unfairly load the dice against victim . that be be change , and we be very committed to that direction of travel . I listen very carefully to the Lord Chancellor ' s very consider statement , and the question that come to mind be : why not ? why not have a Hillsborough law ? that have not be answer . this have , of course , be consider very carefully across Government Departments , and there be countervail interest , which I be very happy to discuss with the hon . member . there be issue of concern , and if we look at how the Bill be initially draft by Andy Burnham , there be a very low bar — [ interruption . ] well , there be a lot of complexity to it , and I be very happy to discuss it with the hon . member . however , the central point I want to get across today be that Bishop James Jones be talk about change the culture . as he himself have note , legislation be not always the answer ; change the culture be critically important . through this charter , with the IPA , we will make enormous stride towards ensure that this be part of what it mean to be a public service in Britain . I thank the Lord Chancellor for his statement , and I commend the right hon . and hon . opposition Members who have fight doggedly the whole way through . at the heart of any announcement about Hillsborough should be the victim and the family they leave behind , who be devastate by the lack of urgency that they see from the Government . do the Lord Chancellor agree that at the crux of any legislation for a public disaster , the onus should be in favour of the victim and their family ? will he ensure that the correct provision be in place finally to compensate those who still live with that tragic event each and every minute of each and every day ? the hon . Gentleman make a powerful point . for the victim , the pain never end , and " grief be a journey " , as Bishop James Jones report . it be totally unacceptable for victim to be leave flounder in the agony of their grief in the immediate aftermath of a tragedy . that be why we set up the IPA and why it will be permanent , ready to swing into action not just to provide assistance , support and information , but to hold the relevant agency to account . I have listen carefully to what the Lord Chancellor have say , and I thank he for his measured , comprehensive and frank approach . the primary question to be ask be whether he genuinely believe that the family of the bereaved and those affect will be satisfied with what he have say . this statement be intend to respond to the 25 point of learn in Bishop James Jones ' s report . of course , because of the delay , which I have be pretty candid be too long , there have be a development in think thereafter , but the three of those point that be identify in particular by Bishop James Jones — the Hillsborough charter , the equality of arm and the police duty of candour — have be fulfil , and I think they have be fulfil in a way that massively advance the state of our country . of course people want to have further discussion — I respect that and will of course accommodate they — but it be important to note that in term of what be request , very significant change have be make . I thank the Lord Chancellor for his statement . Gender Recognition it be this Government ' s policy that the UK do not recognise self - identification for the purpose of obtain a gender recognition certificate . however , the Government be determined that everyone should be able to live their life free from unfair discrimination . we be proud to have pass the marriage ( same Sex Couples ) Act 2013 and ture ' s law . we also introduce a modernised and affordable gender - recognition process , while recognise the need to maintain check and balance . today , we be lay an order to update the list of approve overseas country and territory for parliamentary approval . that be provide for under section 1 ( 1 ) ( b ) of the Gender Recognition Act 2004 and follow previous periodic update . this be long overdue . the list of approve overseas country and territory be last update in 2011 . a commitment be make to keep the list under review , so this be a further step in implement our response to the Gender Recognition Act consultation . we be do this because some country and territory on the list have make change to their system and would not now be consider to have similarly rigorous system as the UK ' s . inadvertently allow self - ID for obtain GRCs be not government policy . it should not be possible for a person who do not satisfy the criterion for UK legal gender recognition to use the overseas route to do so . we also need to ensure parity with UK applicant : it would not be fair for the overseas route to be base on less rigorous evidential requirement . that would damage the integrity and credibility of the process in the Gender Recognition Act . we have finalise detail of overseas country and territory to be remove and add to the list lay today via an affirmative statutory instrument . we have undertake thorough check in collaboration with the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office to verify our understanding of each overseas system in question and measure it against the UK ' s standard route to obtain gender recognition . my official and I formally engage with colleague and Ministers from devolved government in advance of lay this statutory instrument . the Government be commit to ensure that this outcome of the 2020 Gender Recognition Act consultation be follow through and uphold , and the overseas list will be update via statutory instrument more regularly in future . this work be important because of the complex interaction between the Gender Recognition Act and the Equality Act 2010 . the complexity of the legal situation be reinforce by the judgment in December 2022 by Lady Haldane in the judicial review bring by for Women Scotland , uphold on appeal last month by the Inner House of the Court of Session , which effectively state that a gender recognition certificate change a person ' s sex for the purpose of the protection confer by the Equality Act . labour ' s Gender Recognition Act 2004 and Equality Act 2010 do not envisage that the word " sex " and " gender " would be use as differently as they be today . that be have an impact on all policy that draw on those act , include on tackle conversion practice and guidance for gender - question child . to that end , I be explore how we can rectify these issue across the board and provide legal certainty . that will reduce the tension that have emerge as a result of the confusion around the term " sex " and " gender " , first by ensure that we be evidence - lead in the approach we take — for example , when consider appropriate treatment of child on the NHS , we should be fully inform by the final report from the Cass review , which be due early next year ; give the complexity of this area , the review be understandably take long than originally expect — secondly , by ensure consistency in how we implement policy across the board ; and thirdly , by explore whether we need more clarity in law . for example , the Equality and Human Rights Commission have recommend that we clarify the definition of sex in the Equality Act , while ensure that any far propose legislation fully take into account the complexity of issue . we should not leave ordinary people to suffer unintended consequence because we in Parliament be shy of deal with difficult issue . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Minister . I thank the Minister for Women and Equalities for advance sight of her statement . I welcome the chance to respond to she on these important issue . such opportunity be vanishingly rare , give that I believe this be the first oral statement she have make on the woman and equality brief this year . like Santa Claus , it seem she get to work when Christmas be around the corner . I start this morning by join a debate on the Government ' s continued failure to ban conversion practice , a promise that be make over half a decade ago . I be sorry not to see the Minister there to explain that failure in person — no conversion practice ban , no commitment to make every strand of hate crime an aggravate offence in order to tackle the staggering rise in violent hate crime target LGBT + people , and no provision to school of the guidance that have be promise repeatedly but not deliver . she have be unable to deliver in any of those area , and she even try in her statement to say that legislation pass over 13 year ago have cause those delay — you couldn ' t make it up . let we be clear . there be million of british LGBT + people in this country . I would love to hear from the right hon . Lady what she be do for they , after her Government ditch their LGBT action plan , disband their LGBT advisory panel and fritter away taxpayer ' money on a cancel international conference that LGBT + organisation refuse to attend . of course it be important that the list of approve country be keep up to date . that be what Labour provide for when we pass the GRA back in 2004 . the list be last amend in 2011 , when two country be remove from it and nine add . at that time , the Government say that they expect that it would be necessary to update the list " within the next five year . " here we be 12 year later and the Minister have just get around to it . that be the kind of timescale our country have grow use to when it come to conservative delivery . indeed , even she herself say that it be long overdue . the right hon . Lady outline several change , and it be important that we understand fully why the decision have be make . why be there so little information on why they have be take ? as just one example , as I understand it , Germany approve self - ID this summer , but it be still on the list . be that because its change apply to birth certificate rather than to grc — it do not have such a certificate — or be it because of the timing of its reform ? there be no clarity and no information . we be talk about likely very small number of people , but for those individual it be important to get this right . it be extremely difficult to determine the Department ' s approach on the basis of an extremely thin explanation . many people live in this country who hold grc from the overseas route will be worried about what this mean for they . will the Minister be clear — do the change impact their right in any way ? what about those with application that be still outstanding ? as a result of the change , many country that be close ally of the UK have be remove from the list . will the Minister explain whether she have have bilateral discussion with each of they over the implication of this move ? she refer to thorough check , but not to any bilateral engagement ; do that mean that none take place ? if so , why be there no such engagement on an issue on which I suspect we as the UK would expect to be consult be the shoe on the other foot ? on that note , what assessment have the Minister make of the impact of the change on the mutual recognition of UK grc in other country ? do she consult her newly appoint colleague in the other place , the Foreign Secretary , about the diplomatic impact of the change ? if so , do he agree with they ? I note that , for example , China be now on the approve list , but our four close five Eyes ally be not . the Minister mention that there be consultation with the Scottish and northern irish authority , but she do not say what the upshot of that be . she also do not indicate what the impact of the change be on our arrangement with Ireland . will she please clarify that ? finally , change to the right of foreign national in this country may lead to wide concern about the mutual recognition of marriage right , and other right such as adoption . will the Minister clarify whether the Government have any plan in those policy area ? let I be clear : Labour want to modernise the Gender Recognition Act while make sure that that do not override the single - sex exemption in the Equality Act . we recognise that sex and gender be different , as the Equality Act do , but I be afraid the Minister ' s statement only underline how chaotic her Government ' s approach have become , with the Conservatives apparently completely divide on these issue and focus on rhetoric rather than delivery . LGBT + people deserve well . it be extraordinary that the hon . Lady would say that the Conservatives be divide on this issue . do the hon . member for Canterbury ( Rosie Duffield ) agree with she ? the disgraceful way that she have be treat by member of the Labour party show that we beg to differ . we be unite on this side of the House ; they be not . the hon . member for Oxford East ( Anneliese Dodds ) ask quite a number of question and I will take the time to go through they in sequence . first , she complain that this be the first time she have hear I give a statement on this issue . the fact of the matter be that I be in this House for oral statement and there be plenty of opportunity to ask question , and the Minister for Equalities have be in Westminster Hall . one thing I be very keen to do be to stop the Labour party use this issue as a political football . they have mess this — [ interruption . ] they laugh , but it be Labour party mp who , during the debacle over section 35 , stand on a platform , on stage , with an attempt murderer complain about this government , so I refuse to countenance any criticism from they . they have mess around so much on this issue . the hon . Lady claim that Labour have a policy on gender recognition . it be the policy we announce three year ago . hollow , empty , repetitive — they have do absolutely no work whatsoever on this issue . let I take her question in turn . she ask why country such as Germany have be remove from the list — rise — order . it be not possible to intervene while the Minister be respond during a statement . the hon . Lady question why certain country be on the list and other be not . again , I hear lot of laughter from member on the Back Benches . I be go to have to reinforce this really important point : this be not a tool for foreign policy . this be a tool that be use to make sure that other country ' system be as rigorous as ours . I understand why people will have concern , but this be not about virtue signal as to which country we like or which country we do not like — far from it . this be about whether another country ' s system meet our guideline . the hon . Lady talk about country such as China . it be a very good question and I will explain to she why some country that we might not expect to be be on the list . I will use the example of Kazakhstan , where to obtain gender recognition applicant must undergo gender reassignment surgery . that include force sterilisation , something which we condemn completely . it be ban in our country and be a form of conversion practice . recognise certification for someone who have undergo that be a compassionate acknowledgement of what some transgend people in other country have have to go through to obtain their certification . be we really go to say to people with grc from China or Kazakhstan who have be forcibly sterilise by their state that we do not think they be serious about legally change their gender ? of course not . that be why we have include certain country . if people have go through such extreme measure for gender recognition , we should not be give they any additional issue here . there be country with which we work very closely , and with which we carry out a good deal of extended engagement . I be also the Secretary of State for Business and Trade , and I work with embassy across the world and Ministers across the world . I speak to other country ' minister about this issue , and they recognise the sovereignty of the UK . ambassador have be notify . we engage in a great deal of collaboration with the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office throughout this process , and we be monitor the international reaction to the legislation . member can be assure that diplomatic post have be notify of the change , and we have provide they with comprehensive question - and - answer document that address any potential misconception about what this statutory instrument do . that return I to what I be say about why I be so careful with the intervention that I make about equality . Labour member do not do their homework . they stand up in the Chamber and produce repetitive line from social medium . they think that they can use LGBT people as a shield for silly policy . we be go to do the policy properly : we be take a lot of time to do this right . along with my right hon . friend the Member for Pudsey ( Stuart Andrew ) , the Minister for Equalities , I be keen to ensure that LGBT people across the UK understand that this Government be make sure that we be do thing in a way that will not collapse once it make contact with reality . I congratulate my right hon . friend on her statement . I agree with she that the law concern sex and gender need to be clarify , which be why later this afternoon I will present a private member ' s Bill to do just that . first , the Bill will make it clear that single - sex space and sex as define in the Equality Act 2010 be on the basis of biological sex , and secondly , it will protect those under 18 who be undergo hormone treatment for gender dysphoria . it will also ensure that the state do not formally recognise social transitioning for those under 18 . give what my right hon . friend have say , may I ask whether the Government will back my Bill ? I certainly support any effort to clarify the law , and we should start from first principle . no child be bear in the wrong body , and no child should be put on a pathway towards irreversible medical transition . I be also conscious that it will take time to amend law , and I be therefore focus on what will work for now . that be why we be publish guidance to give clarity to school as soon as possible . I remember discuss the grow problem of what we describe as social transitioning with my right hon . friend when she be the Minister for Women and Equalities . I be pleased that she have come round to my point of view , and I be keen to work with she to see how we can ensure that the legislation work properly in practice . I call the Scottish National party spokesperson . I thank the Minister for advance sight of her statement , although I would have welcome a good deal more detail . I do not know whether it be because the UK Government have be miss in action on their own commitment to ban conversion therapy for the last five year , but they seem much more interested in culture war than in look after the right of some of the most vulnerable people . of course , this be the same UK Government who be intent on block the democratic will , express across party , of the Scottish Parliament . again , they seem to be more interested in constitutional shenanigan than in human right . the Minister talk about unintended consequence . have she undertake an impact assessment of the impact of this change on the safety , health and wellbeing of those affect ? what conversation have she have with international counterpart , and what specific evidence do she receive ahead of the change that make she decide to remove these name territory ? can she tell we exactly what will happen to those already live here , and live under their new gender , who come from the place that she be now remove from the list ? can she say where this leave the motion of reciprocal arrangement ? what of those from the UK who be live elsewhere ? do she recognise that the UK be travel rapidly backwards on the right of LGBT people and that this decision be very much out of step with other progressive country around the world ? what consideration have she give to the UK ' s international reputation ? from send vulnerable refugee to Rwanda , place barrier in front of care worker who want to come to the UK and now this , we can see the dearth of compassion at the heart of the UK Government writ large . we have all hear the report that the conservative party intend to fight the general election on the trans debate and culture war , but nobody ' s identity should be in question . as the Minister herself say , nobody ' s identity should be use as a political football . we need to stop that . she need to reflect and she need to change tack . I completely disagree with the hon . Lady . she talk about our use this issue as a culture war football , yet the Labour Opposition spokesperson say that this be the first time that she have hear we say anything about this in the House . surely both can not be true . I think it be extraordinary that she be tell we that we be not compassionate . it be her Government in Scotland who be allow rapist to be house in woman ' s prison while use self - identity as a cover , so I will not accept that . we be the one who be think about woman ' s right . we be the one who be think about safeguard . we be the one who be think about vulnerability . the hon . Lady ask I about reciprocal arrangement . the fact be that our system be a lot more rigorous , so there be no reason for other to stop accept our certificate because they have not change . it be because other country have change their process that we be update this policy . we can not have a situation where there be rule for people in this country and where we allow people from other country with different rule to be able to access thing that people in the UK can not access . this be about equality before the law . this be about parity . reciprocal arrangement will be fine . she also ask about people already live here . this be not retrospective legislation , so it will not impact people who be already here . we be just make it clear : self - ID be not something that this Government support . we do not believe that this be something that people should just declare , because that create the very same problem that she see in Scotland in the Isla Bryson case , with rapist go into woman ' s prison . we will not allow that to happen on this Government ' s watch . of course we can not change biological sex . the GRC establish legal sex for the purpose of exercise certain right . give that we have have a massive shift in right since the Gender Recognition Act be pass in 2004 , particularly with same sex marriage , can my right hon . friend advise I exactly what additional right be grant through the giving of a GRC ? I thank my hon . friend for that question . this be one area where we be try to provide clarity . as a result of the Haldane judgment , there be now confusion between biological sex and legal sex and certainly in term of the interpretation that people put on it . a gender recognition certificate have different standard in term of what could be obtain until this judgment . we want to make it clear , for instance , that single - sex space will still be protect . we will do a lot more to clarify that . as I say , the Haldane judgment change that , which be one reason why we need to look at this very carefully . there be 30 page in the Appeal Court report , which show how complex this issue be . the law be no long clear . in fact , I would go so far as to say that the law be now a mess because of change time . we need to provide clarity . we can not assume that the wording as be intend in 2004 and 2010 still work in 2023 , and we be carry out work to fix that . I will be call only those who be here at the start of the statement . member will know if they be not here , so I do not expect they to stand . well , Madam Deputy Speaker , not wish to be upstage by the ex - Home Secretary , the Minister whose job it be to defend vulnerable minority choose to make her first statement this year in the House to announce two measure attack transgend people . why do she think that the UK , which be the first for four year up until 2015 in the european league of LGBT right , and have now fall to 17th under her watch ? I completely reject the right hon . Gentleman ' s assertion . I have come to the Floor of the House for an SI , which be unusual for a Secretary of State , because I think it be important that member across the House have the opportunity to ask question . I be not afraid of anybody on the Opposition Benches . I be not afraid of a single one of they , because I know that they do not take this seriously . the right hon . Gentleman ask why we have fall . it be because self - ID be something that we differ in opinion with from other country — [ interruption . ] it be . it be a fact . we be different . but just because other country believe that self - ID be the way do not mean that we in the UK have to do what everybody else be do . the issue of gender recognition and self - ID that my right hon . friend be work to clarify be increasingly an issue in amateur and professional sport , with the risk of serious injury to woman and girl and also example of unfairness . do she agree that , in general , for most sport , it be safe and fair to separate on the basis of biological sex ? I do agree . certainly in the majority of physical sport it be fair and safe to separate on the basis of biological sex , and it be crucial that sporting body understand their responsibility to woman . a poor understanding of equality law have lead to woman such as the pool player Lynne Pinches have to take legal action to ensure fair competition in their sport , and girl often fear be physically injure by biological male . rather than speak up about the abuse , they endure it because they be scared of be call bigot . I would say to people across the House that call people transphobic and call they bigot when they express concern be create a chilling effect . I have a group of schoolchildren , teenage girl , in my office who tell I that because of mixed - sex sport they be bully and push around — one of they talk about her glass be break — because the boy be use the opportunity to bully . we should think about child and we should think about protect they , so I disagree with the labelling of anyone who have a different opinion as transphobic . that be what be cause the problem in this debate , and I be determined to bring some light rather than the heat that other continue to generate . I actually agree with the Secretary of State that put label of any sort on people in any part of this debate be unacceptable and we should not indulge it . the Secretary of State also say that this be an important decision , and I agree with that too ; it be an important statement . she also say that this have to be evidence - base , and I completely agree with that . could she tell we which organisation in this country concern with LGBT right and with human right generally she consult on this statement , and what their response and recommendation be ? the hon . Lady be right ; we do carry out extensive consultation , but remember , this be something that we do repeatedly and periodically . the fact that we have not carry this out since 2011 show that we have be remiss in our duty , and that be something that I be fix . one of the issue be that a lot of people do not understand the law when it come to self - identification . we be provide clarity there . we have engage with numerous LGBT group , but the fact of the matter be that many of they support self - ID . that be not this Government ' s policy . Stonewall do not decide the law in this country — [ hon . member : " hear , hear ! " ] whatever it be that people want to campaign on , we will listen and we will hear , but we have be very clear about this . this be something that we be not budge on . we be update the law in accordance with Government policy , and we will continue to do so . I warmly welcome my right hon . friend ' s statement , which provide some much - need clarity , because self - ID do threaten the dignity and safety of woman and girl . she be absolutely right to say that the UK should not recognise grc from country that operate policy of self - ID . sex matter , in life and in law , and it be right that the UK have its own rigorous process for gain grc , but these safeguard do not apply to the process of change sex marker on passport and drive licence , which be far more commonly use for identification in everyday life . will my right hon . friend look again at the Passport Office ' s 2021 review and decide whether we can stop this self - ID by the back door through drive licence and passport ? I thank my hon . friend for her question . it be a good one . this be one of the thing that come to light as we look at Government policy across the board and it be an example of how the law need update . the reason that we have this be not that the Government support self - ID but that before the same - sex marriage law come into be we want people to be able to change their legal document so that they could get marry . now that we have a law that have fix that , we should again look at some of the measure we put in place early , and that be why my hon . friend be right to raise this . it be a Home Office issue , but I will raise it with the Home Secretary and see what we can do to repair it . I will say this as gently as I can . as a gay man , I feel less safe today than I do three year or five year ago . why ? sometimes it be because of the rhetoric use in the public debate , include by the Minister . [ interruption . ] I be afraid we be not able to have a debate . let we have a debate ; I would be very happy to debate . I be just make the point that many of we feel less safe today , and when people over there on the government Benches cheer , as they just do , it chill I to the bone — it genuinely do . I will ask the Minister two very simple question . first , how many people do she think today ' s decision will affect — a precise number ? secondly , she will know that there be lot of people in the UK who have enter into a same - sex civil partnership or marriage and would like that to be recognise in other country around the world , so that they can live their life there , wherever it may be . what have she do since be in power to ensure that more country recognise same - sex civil partnership and marriage ? I , too , will speak very gently . the hon . Gentleman say that my rhetoric chill he to the bone . I would be really keen to hear what exactly it be that I have say , either in this statement or previously , that be so chilling . I will tell he what chill I . in May 2021 , against official advice — I stress that official say , " you should not have this meeting " — I meet a young lady call Keira Bell , a lesbian , who tell I of the horrific experience she have have at the Tavistock clinic . it be an eye - open experience . the hon . member for Kirkcaldy and Cowdenbeath ( Neale Hanvey ) talk about " transe away the gay " in his speech in Westminster Hall . we be see , I would say , almost an epidemic of young gay child be tell that they be tran and be put on a medical pathway for irreversible decision , and they be regret it . this be what I be do for young LGBT child : I be make sure that they do not find themselves be sterilise because they be be exploit by people who do not understand what these issue be . I be say this on the advice of clinician and academic , because clinician from the Tavistock clinic have be whistleblowe , talk about what these issue be . the hon . Gentleman say that he be traumatise ; we be traumatise by what be happen to young child , and we will run away from this issue no long . like million of people across this country , include the LGB Alliance , I be concern by the erosion of hard - win right of woman and girl , not least the right to female - only space . do my right hon . friend agree that we need a coherent policy across the whole of Government — every single Department — to ensure that we protect female - only space , and that we should make that a core commitment ahead of the next election ? I do agree , and I agree that it have to be across the board in Government . some of that work be already under way . but I think it go far beyond that . this can not be a left or right issue , and it can not be an issue on which certain people be personally invest in their own campaign and can not see the other point of view ; it need to be something that we work on together , on both side of the House . if , while I be make a technical statement and explain our thinking , member across the House be talk about how they be traumatise , that be not serious policymake . we need to be able to have a proper conversation , take the heat out of the debate and speak properly , as Members of Parliament represent all our constituent . it infuriate I to hear people in this Chamber speak about the LGBT community as if it be one homogenous group . we be not one homogenous group , and there be many LGB and t people who oppose self - ID for obvious reason . one of the issue that I be deeply concerned about be that many public body have not be observe their public sector equality duty properly . in some case they have be erase sex from legislation , which be outwith that duty . what action can be take to ensure that legislation be fit for purpose and match all the protect characteristic contain in the Equality Act 2010 ? the hon . Gentleman be quite right to raise that issue . that be why I mention the work that we be do on clarify the difference between sex and gender . as I say , these term be use interchangeably when we originally legislate in the House , which have create confusion in term of understanding . public authority should aim for clarity in what they do . many organisation , particularly hospital , think that remove the term " woman " be more inclusive . it really be not — it be exclude . I would gently say to they that if they be use phrase such as " chest feeding " or remove word such as " mother " from paperwork and form , they be not help . they be make thing bad and they be create confusion . I be go to work with public authority . the Minister for Women be also a Health Minister . we take this issue very seriously , and we will see what more we can do to provide clarity . provide clarity be the key point . woman ' s participation in sport be significantly low than man ' s . we need to encourage more girl and woman to participate in sport because it be good for their long - term health as well as their mental wellbeing . we have hear story — and I have hear story in my constituency — of woman and girl be put off sport by the presence of male for safety , privacy or fairness reason . what be the Secretary of State do to encourage girl to participate in sport and to protect integrity , fairness and privacy in woman ' s sport ? this be something that I have say it be crucial that sporting body understand . they be responsible for manage the rule in this space , and quite a lot of they have update their guidance to reflect that , but not all of they . young woman in competitive sport should not have to silently accept that biological man will always beat they and take their chance to win gold . generation of woman before they have work really hard to ensure that woman have a place in sport and that those who excel be reward for that and be recognise . the Equality Act 2010 be not a barrier to fair sport for woman . it permit it , and it even require it , so I shall work with my colleague in the Department for Culture , Media and Sport — the Minister for Equalities be a DCMS Minister — to ensure that fair sport be a right that every woman and every girl can enjoy . I welcome the commitment by the Secretary of State to evidence - base policymaking and to await the outcome of the Cass review . she will be aware , like I , that the interim report from the review state that it have hear from young lesbian who feel pressurised to identify as transgender male . as a lesbian , that be something that concern I . as well as have evidence - base policymaking , do the Secretary of State think that it be important to be clear about what be and be not our obligation under international law ? do she agree that there be no international treaty to which the United Kingdom be a signatory that require we to have a system of self - identification ? the current system we have be legally compliant and be compliant with the european convention on human right . while some people talk about self - ID as good practice , that be no more than an expression of their opinion . do she recognise that self - identification raise real issue not just for the safety of woman and girl but for their privacy and dignity , as well as for the right of same - sex - attract people freely to associate ? the hon . and learn Lady be absolutely right . self - ID impact on all the thing she mention . we speak less about freedom of association and the impact on that . it go to the point make by the hon . member for Kirkcaldy and Cowdenbeath ( Neale Hanvey ) that we need in many respect to separate sexual orientation from what we refer to now as gender identity — that is , what be under the " t " . we have lump they together before . that be helpful in many circumstance , but I have see this issue arise in other equality work that I have do around race , where we use the term BAME to lump together lot of different group . when that occur , we miss a lot of information about what be happen within those group . we need as much granularity as possible if we be to serve people who be LGB as well as people who be t . the hon . and learn Lady ask what work we be do to stop lesbian be make to feel as if they have to be tran - identify male . I have ask the Equality Hub to do some work with the Lesbian Project , which I know be interested in fix this problem . on the point of international treaty , she be absolutely right in what she say . so much of the criticism about how our international standing will fall be not evidence - base policy , but " not a good look - ism " . it say , " this be not a good look and we probably should not do it , " but that be not how we should be make policy . we should be look at the fact , think clearly about the outcome we want and act accordingly . that be the way the Equality Hub , under my leadership , will continue to behave . the Secretary of State for Education say today that to completely stop child be able to socially transition at school require change in equality law , yet child who do socially transition can end up on a pathway to puberty blocker , cross - sex hormone and surgery that leave they infertile and have an impact on their bone , and even their brain , development . this be tear family apart up and down this country , and we can not continue to let it happen in our school . I will therefore be support the Bill from my right hon . friend the Member for South West Norfolk ( Elizabeth Truss ) this afternoon when she lay it before Parliament . will the Secretary of State meet concerned colleague from across the House to change this law in order to protect our child at school , because that be a must ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . I be happy to meet member from across the House on this issue , but I stress that change the law be not go to be easy . it will not be straightforward and it will need consensus , broadly , across the House , because of many of the issue I allude to early . on his early point about social transitioning , he be actually right . it be probably worth my putting on the record what social transitioning be , because I know that a lot of people may not necessarily be clear about what I be refer to . Social transitioning be a relatively new phenomenon . it be root in gender identity theory , which I must stress be a very contested ideology . the term be often use to refer to a range of action that a child may take to appear more like the opposite sex , accompany by an expectation that they will be treat as if they be . that may include request for a child to change their name , the pronoun associate with they or their uniform , or to use different facility from those provide for their biological sex . not all of those request will comply with legal duty on school , particularly those to safeguard child . Social transitioning be not a neutral act , as it have be recognise that it can have formative effect on a child ' s future development , which be what my hon . friend be allude to when he talk about cross - sex hormone . we be take this very seriously . we will have the gender question guidance out very shortly , and I hope it will address many of the issue he be concerned about . I commend the Minister for her wisdom in her answer to all the question she have be ask today . will she confirm that just as a person can have a full drive licence at 16 in the United States of America and yet would not be able to apply for a full licence in the UK until our legal age be attain , the same premise be in operation here , in that our law supersede those of other nation in this sovereign matter ? in other word , decision be make here by our Minister and our Government . we do need to make sure that there be clarity across the board that it be Ministers in this country who be make those decision clearly and be hold to account in Parliament . a lot of loophole have become apparent that allow people to change thing through different mean other than via Parliament . some of that be about change the colloquial meaning of quite a lot of expression . bring as much as possible into law to provide clarity will be really important . may I invite my right hon . friend to agree that , despite some of the rhetoric we have hear in the House today , the United Kingdom be an immeasurably well place to grow up as a gay person than it be in decade go by and that this House be at its good when it can find moderate consensus on what be right for our citizen ? in that light , I ask she whether it be still the Government ' s intention to bring forward conversion therapy ban legislation to this House . if the Government do intend to do that , will she give I and , through I , the House and the country an assurance that we will put often confused , vulnerable and frighten young people at the very heart of that , and that evidence - base decision will inform the legislation the Government bring forward ? I be very happy to confirm that , and I thank my right hon . friend for the measured tone in which he ask his question — it be a model for Opposition Members . we have do so much work under this specific government and even under my watch , include on our HIV action plan and on trans healthcare . we have establish five new community - base clinic for adult in this country . there be a lot that we be do , so it be wrong to characterise we as not care about LGBT people , and it also send the wrong signal to our international partner . if they feel that we be not do well , it be not because of what we be do , but because of what member be say . on conversion practice , let I give a little more clarity about what we be do with a long answer than normal . this be a matter of deep interest across this House , so I would like to set out my thinking fully . a commitment be give to publish a draft conversion practice Bill for pre - legislative scrutiny . I be determined to meet that promise , as be the Minister for Equalities . attempt at so - call conversion therapy be abhorrent and be largely already illegal , so a Bill would identify those practice as a particular threat to gay people and confirm the illegality of harmful process intend to change someone ' s sexuality . in the time since that Bill be first promise , the issue have develop . now , the threat to many young gay people be not conversion relate to their sexuality , but conversion relate to gender identity . girl such Keira Bell , who be rush on to puberty blocker by the NHS and have a double mastectomy , now regret the irreversible damage do to they . I believe that this be a new form of conversion therapy . respected clinician , such as those who leave Tavistock , have make clear that they be fearful of give honest clinical advice to a child because if they do not automatically affirm and medicalise a child ' s new gender , they will be label transphobic . any Bill need to address many of those issue , and that be why we be go to publish a draft Bill . it be a shame that the Secretary of State be not make a full statement on the issue of conversion therapy , because it be a concern for many Opposition Members , and we would like some actual fact , which she have not provide until now . she also have not provide the statutory instrument refer to in the statement ; I do not see it lie on the table , it be not in the Vote Office and it be not online , so we can not scrutinise the name of the country that be to be add to or remove from the list . from the Dispatch Box , could the Secretary of State could list those country and clarify whether they include the United States ? have she receive any diplomatic representation from the United States , or any other country whose status be due to be change , oppose the decision she have announce ? I apologise to the hon . Gentleman about the statutory instrument . as far as I be aware , it have be lay . that be what I be tell , so it be news to I . that should have be the case . all the detail that the hon . Gentleman have ask for will be provide in the SI . I be not go to read out a long list of country from the Dispatch Box , but I have not receive any message from the United States , so I do not think that that be an issue . I thank my right hon . friend for a clear and cogent explanation of why the Government be take the action that they have . do she agree that as we seek to address this very sensitive and important issue , it be important that we avoid the kind of language that we hear from the hon . member for Rhondda ( Sir Chris Bryant ) , precisely because it obscure the fact that we be try to find a legislative way forward that protect the interest of vulnerable young people rather than see they signpost — often prematurely — in a direction that be irreversibly harmful to they ? I completely agree with my right hon . friend — he have say it far well than I could . let we have the debate in this House , rather than have people out there have the debate , which create the climate of fear that many have refer to . the hard they make it for people to speak honestly in this Chamber , the bad the situation will get , so I urge member across the House to listen to my right hon . friend , because the point he have make be really important . we in this House need to set an example ; shout , barrack and call people " bigot " and " transphobic " be not go to help LGBT people in this country . will the Secretary of State talk about what the implication would be if sex be define in law as biological ? would exist tran people have to act in all public appearance in accordance with their biological sex , so , unless they have a gender recognition certificate , trans man would have to use female toilet and tran woman would have to use male toilet ? I be genuinely try to find out the implication of what she have announce , without any paper before we to look at . the hon . Lady ask a good question . the way I would explain it be that this be not an issue that we have before . I wish that we do not have to make these change , but the fact be that many trans people be live their life peacefully and with dignity until other start exploit the loophole . it be not tran people whom we be try to limit ; it be the predator who be use the loophole and give the trans community a bad name . we be try to protect against the example that I use before : male prisoner claim that they be female and go into female prison . we need to continue to provide clarity , because many public authority be confused and do not understand . People should use the toilet for their biological sex in the vast majority of case . in some case , that will be difficult , but we need to provide more clarity so that predator do not exploit the loophole . that be what we be try to do . as I say , in the vast majority of case , we be try to protect vulnerable people . this be my first time comment on this issue . recently , the " genderbread person " concept be find on a school intranet in Ipswich . it promote the idea that biology do not matter and that it be all about what be in your head — complete self - identification . it also promote outdated gender stereotype and a list of hobby and job associate with man and woman , so presumably , if someone like football , somebody might say to they , " have you think about be a boy ? " that be completely regressive . do the Minister agree that there be no place for a " genderbread " person in school at all , and that we should be incredibly careful about promote anything to do with gender ideology in primary school ? my hon . friend raise a good point . that be one thing that I be seek to resolve . as we have not provide clarity in the law , a lot of the space have be fill by many dubious organisation that produce very dubious material with no basis whatsoever in biology or law . they push it because they think that they can get away with it . we as a Government have a responsibility to clear out that material from school . I think that the Secretary of State for Education be look at the material that be be teach under relationship , sex and health education . as my hon . friend make clear , it be important that primary school child in particular be protect . that be why the guidance that we will put out on gender - question child will address that issue — except in the most extreme safeguarding case — and I expect it to include clinical advice . we should not be socially transition any primary school child at all , or introduce they to those theory . I thank the Secretary of State for her statement . my fear , and that of my constituent , be that the aggressive activism with regard to gender put gay and lesbian people in real danger of hate crime and different activism . we also need to protect man , boy , woman and girl . my big fear in all this be that self - identify man in particular will cause confusion for woman , who still do not have equality . we must ensure that woman be safe in health treatment setting and single - sex space . my hon . friend be right . we need to ensure that we provide accurate datum so that public authority across the board , particularly hospital , know exactly who and what they be deal with . we have see example of people not receive the right medical care after be identify as the wrong sex because of a GRC or a self - declare difference in sex or gender . we need to ensure that do not happen . we have see issue across the board . the ONS be again look at how to make the census clear , because it be obvious that many people who complete it do not understand the question . that be what we be try to say : this be a new space , a new area . lot of thing be develop . we should not be rush to legislate ; we should legislate carefully . that be why many of the thing that people have be expect be take time . we be wait for the Cass review , but we will carry out this work . a few year ago , a love , caring , intelligent and thoughtful married couple come to my surgery , and they be very distressed because they have just find out that their child have be question their gender at school and the school have , for several month , not inform they . this child have be counsel by two adult who have no appropriate qualification . as we seek clarity on the law and the guideline , will my right hon . friend assure I that parent will be inform and include in those conversation , except in the most extraordinary circumstance ? I confirm that I want to make sure of that . as we see in the guidance on gender - question child , it be absurd for such a significant change to be take place without parent know . of course , that may not be possible in the most extreme circumstance , but the vast majority of parent love their child and care for they . we should not treat parent as the enemy . they need to know what be go on because , quite a lot of the time , gender - question child have comorbiditie — perhaps they be autistic or perhaps there be something else go on in the mental health space that need clinical advice , rather than just put they on the social transitioning pathway . I thank the Secretary of State for reassure we that the Government remain committed to protect woman ' s right and child with policy that be base on biological reality , not extreme ideology that conflate sex and gender . do she agree that today ' s statement will help to stop people find loophole around this ? yes , I agree . the purpose of this SI be to provide clarity . the law have not really be update since 2011 . we need more frequent update to ensure we keep up with what be happen in this space . in answer to early question about the availability of the SI , it be table at 12 noon . I be sorry that it be not ready for member . I spend my entire professional career work in state secondary school as a teacher , and the one place where debate around gender self - identification should never apply be with child . as we have see divisive critical race theory enter our school , we be now see an equally divisive gender ideology . will the Secretary of State confirm for my resident in Stoke - on - Trent North , Kidsgrove and Talke that her announcement will help to ensure the classroom be a safe space for vulnerable young people ? I welcome my hon . friend ' s question . as a teacher , he know how carefully we need to look after child , and how carefully we need to ensure we be safeguard across the board . he be right , and this SI be just one step we be take to provide clarity . there be more come , and not all of it will be legislative . we will bring in measure to help people understand exactly what be go on . we should not assume that the knowledge we have in this House be present in the population . I have meet people who do not understand the difference between be gay and be tran . [ interruption . ] the hon . member for Manchester Central ( Lucy Powell ) be complain that my answer be long . it be because I want people to hear the truth and to understand what the Government be do . the main feature of country that have come off the list seem to be their adoption of law that remove all safeguard on change gender . do my right hon . friend agree that this approach be dangerous ? what further step be she take to address its expansion ? I can not control what other country do . all we can do be emphasise our own policy . across the House , we have conversation with international counterpart . there have be a lot of interest in what we be do . I remember speak to a Minister who say their country — I will not name the country — have bring in self - ID early because they think we be go to do it , and that they be now think again . there be country , even in Europe , that be take step to limit this , because they have see the consequence and do not think that the benefit outweigh the disbenefit . I be glad that we in the UK be set a standard for evidence - base policymake and be show other how to get this right . point of Order rise — I call Stephen Doughty to make his point of order first , because it relate to the statement and I believe the Secretary of State may be able to provide clarification . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . far to the point I raise in my question to the Minister for Women and Equalities about the information that have not be provide to the House , I have a list here that appear to be a list of country and territory that be change status as a result of the statement and the order that be be lay , but it do not appear to have be publish or to be available in the Vote Office . it include a large number of australian state , canadian province and state of the United States , include Colorado and New Mexico , as well as New York city and New York state , and other place . it actually include some european country — Malta , Luxembourg — as well as Mexico in Latin America and many other location . could the Minister confirm for the House ' s interest whether this list be correct ? first , I believe the Minister do confirm that the order have be lay , and it should therefore be available in the Vote Office . however , the Secretary of State may like to confirm that , or if she do not have the information immediately available , to say that she will report back about it . far to that point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I would like to confirm that the order have be lay . I have just hear from official that it have be lay . after the statement . we will ensure that it be available in the Vote Office . it be lay well before the statement to the House . I be sorry it have not be publish , but it be lay , so we have do our bit . I think the Minister have confirm that it be lay . we will find out why it be not in the Vote Office and come back to the hon . member for Cardiff South and Penarth ( Stephen Doughty ) . I call the shadow Leader of the House . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . have you be give notice of any oral statement by the Home Secretary today , give that he sign a treaty with Rwanda yesterday ? as you be aware , the Government have repeatedly make major announcement outside this House and have not be forthcoming in bring forward opportunity for member to scrutinise they here . I note that the Home Secretary be in fact in his place for Prime Minister ' s question today , so he would have be able to give an oral statement . can you also confirm that statement can be make at any time during the day , and have you be give notice of whether one will be make later today ? I thank the hon . Lady for her point of order , and for give I notice of it . as she know , the Speaker have be very clear on the importance of minister make statement first to this House . I can confirm that it be possible for a statement to be make at an unusual time — in other word , not straight after question , as would be the norm . the Government would need to notify the Speaker of their wish to do so , and if that do happen later today , I be sure the whole House will be notify in good time . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I would like to seek your advice because , on 6 December 1923 , the first three female Labour Members of Parliament be elect — Margaret Bondfield , Dorothy Jewson and Susan Lawrence — and these three woman campaign tirelessly for election against all odd . between 1929 and 1931 , Margaret Bondfield become the UK ' s first woman Cabinet Minister after be name the Minister of Labour . that be a profoundly important anniversary in our country ' s history . can I seek your advice about how it can be mark on the record of this House ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady for her point of order , and for give I notice of it . all I can say be that I think the hon . Lady have answer her own point of order in draw our attention to this anniversary in the way she have do . personal Statement before I call the right hon . and learn Member for Fareham ( Suella Braverman ) to make her personal statement , I remind the House that such statement be hear in silence and without interruption . if anybody feel that they can not abide by that , they be welcome to leave now . I repeat — in silence and without interruption . I be very grateful for the opportunity to make this statement . I would like put on the record my wish to Mr Speaker and hope that he make a speedy recovery . serve in Cabinet for just under four year have be a true honour . I be thankful for the opportunity and grateful to the many civil servant and Ministers with whom I work . we achieve a great deal in the last 12 month : landmark legislation in the Public Order Act 2023 and the National Security Act 2023 ; 20 , 000 new police officer , more than England and Wales have ever see before ; one of the large ever pay rise for the police ; great power to dismiss rogue officer ; and a review of the legal protection to empower our brave firearm officer . but I want to talk about the crisis on which I spend more time work than any other : mass , uncontrolle , illegal immigration . all of we here be familiar with the problem : ten of thousand of mostly young man , many with value and social more at odd with our own , pour into our country day after day , month after month , year after year . many come from safe country . many be not refugee , but be economic migrant . all have pay thousand of pound to criminal gang to break into Britain . all have come from a safe country , France , which — let we face it — should be do so much more to stop they . that be put unsustainable pressure on our public finance and our public service . it be strain community cohesion , jeopardise national security and harm public safety . the british people all understand this . the question be , do the Government , and will they now finally act to stop it ? the Prime Minister rightly commit to do whatever it take to stop the boat . he should be commend for dedicate more time and toil than any of his predecessor to that endeavour . unlike the Leader of the Opposition , who would rather bury his head in the sand , he have actually advance a plan . we make some progress during my tenure as Home Secretary : the overall crossing have fall by 30 % ; the number of illegal albanian arrival be down by 90 % ; and we be start to close down asylum hotel . but " crossing be down " be not the same as " stop the boat " . as Home Secretary , I consistently advocate legislative measure that would have secure the delivery of our Rwanda partnership as soon as a Bill become law . last summer , follow defeat in the Court of Appeal , I advise that we should scrap rather than continue passage of the Illegal Migration Bill , in favour of a more robust alternative that exclude international and human right law . when that be reject , I urge that we need to work up a credible plan b in the event of a Supreme Court loss . follow defeat in the Supreme Court , the Prime Minister have finally agree to introduce emergency legislation . I welcome his decision , but it be now three week on from the judgment and we be yet to see a Bill . I be tell that its publication be imminent , but we be run out of time . this be an emergency , and we need to see the Bill now . my deep concern , however , relate to the substance of what may be in that Bill . previous attempt have fail because they do not address the root cause of the problem : expansive human right law , flow from the european convention on human right and replicate in Labour ' s Human Rights Act 1998 , be be interpret elastically by court domestic and foreign to literally prevent our Rwanda plan from get off the ground . this problem relate to so much more than just illegal arrival . from my time as Home Secretary , I can say that the same human right framework be produce insanity that the public would scarcely believe : foreign terrorist we can not deport because of their human right ; terrorist we have to let back in because of their human right ; foreign rapist and paedophile who should have be remove but be release back into the community only to reoffend — yes , because of their human right ; violent criminal pull off deportation flight at the last minute thank to the help of Labour mp , free to wander the street and commit further horrific crime include murder ; protestor let off the hook for tear down statue and glue themselves to road ; and our brave military veteran harass through the court some 40 year after their service . it be no secret that I support leave the european convention on human right and replace the Human Rights Act with a british Bill of Rights that protect the vulnerable and our national security , and finish the job of Brexit by extricate we from the foreign court and restore real parliamentary supremacy , but I accept that the Government will not do that and that it be a debate for another day . crucially , when it come to stop the boat now , leave the echr be not the only way to cut the gordian knot . emergency legislation would enable this only if it meet the follow test . first , the Bill must address the Supreme Court ' s concern about the safety of Rwanda . secondly , the Bill must enable flight before the next election by block off all route of challenge . the power to detain and remove must be exercisable notwithstanding the Human Rights Act , the european convention on human right , the refugee convention and all other international law . thirdly , the Bill must remedy deficiency in the Illegal Migration Act 2023 to ensure that removal can take place within day , rather than allow individual claim and challenge that drag on for month . fourthly , the Bill must enable the administrative detention of illegal arrival until they be remove . and just as we rapidly build Nightingale hospital to deal with covid , so we must build Nightingale - style detention facility to deliver the necessary capacity . Greece and Turkey have do so . the only way to do this , as I advocate for in government , be with the support of the Ministry of Defence . fifthly , Parliament must be prepared to sit over Christmas to get the Bill do . all of this come down to a simple question : who govern Britain ? where do ultimate authority for the UK lie ? be it with the british people and their elect representative , or be it in the vague , shift and unaccountable concept of international law ? on Monday , the Prime Minister announce measure that start to well reflect public frustration on legal migration . he can now follow that up with a Bill that reflect public fury on illegal migration and actually stop the boat . it be now or never . the conservative party face electoral oblivion in a matter of month if we introduce yet another Bill destine to fail . do we fight for sovereignty , or do we let our party die ? now , I may not have always find the right word in the past , but I refuse to sit by and allow we to fail . the trust that million of people place in we can not be discard as an inconvenient detail . if we summon the political courage to do what be truly necessary , difficult though it may be — to fight for the british people — we will regain their trust . if the Prime Minister lead that fight , he have my total support . Bills present Building Societies Act 1986 ( Amendment ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Julie Elliott , support by Dame Angela Eagle , Damian Green , Siobhain McDonagh , Yvonne Fovargue , Wendy Chamberlain , Sir Mark Hendrick , Ian Mearns , John Stevenson , Alison Thewliss and Dame Meg Hillier , present a Bill to make provision about the funding of building society and the assimilation of the law relate to company and the law relate to build society . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 19 January 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 18 ) . share Parental Leave and Pay ( Bereavement ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Chris Elmore present a Bill to make provision about share parental leave and pay in certain case where a mother have die ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 26 January 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 19 ) . pension ( Special Rules for end of Life ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Mr Laurence Robertson present a Bill to change the period of life expectancy relevant to certain pension rule . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 2 February 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 20 ) . Strategic Litigation against Public Participation Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) christian Wakeford , on behalf of Wayne David , present a Bill to make provision about the misuse of litigation to suppress freedom of speech . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 23 February 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 21 ) . conversion Practices ( prohibition ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Alicia Kearns , on behalf of Lloyd Russell - Moyle , support by Elliot Colburn , Mr William Wragg , Dr Jamie Wallis , Caroline Nokes , Gary Sambrook , Dehenna Davison , Iain Stewart and Michael Fabricant , present a Bill to prohibit practice whose predetermined purpose be to change a person ' s sexual orientation or to change a person to or from be transgender ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 1 March 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 22 ) . Animal Welfare ( Import of Dogs , Cats and Ferrets ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Selaine Saxby present a Bill to make provision for and in connection with restrict the importation and non - commercial movement of dog , cat and ferret . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 15 March 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 23 ) . hunt trophy ( Import Prohibition ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Mark Tami , on behalf of John Spellar , support by Henry Smith , present a Bill to make provision prohibit the import of hunt trophy into Great Britain . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 22 March 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 24 ) . High Streets ( Designation , Review and Improvement Plan ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Jack Brereton , support by Jonathan Gullis , Jo Gideon , Eddie Hughes , Andrew Lewer , Grahame Morris , Damien Moore , Martin Vickers , David Morris , Neil o ' Brien , Mrs Sharon Hodgson and Nick Fletcher , present a Bill to require local authority to designate high street in their area ; to require local authority to undertake and publish periodic review of the condition of those high street ; to require local authority to develop action plan for the improvement of the condition of those high street ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 26 January 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 25 ) . Pet Abduction Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Anna Firth present a Bill to create offence of dog abduction and cat abduction and to confer a power to make corresponding provision relate to the abduction of other animal commonly keep as pet . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 19 January 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 26 ) . Joint Enterprise ( Significant Contribution ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Kim Johnson , support by Sir Robert Neill , Mr Barry Sheerman , John McDonnell , Paula Barker , Rachel Hopkins , Kate Osamor , Liz Saville Roberts , Kenny MacAskill and Chris Stephens , present a Bill to amend the Accessories and Abettors Act 1861 to provide that only a person who directly commit , or who make a significant contribution to the commission of , an offence may be hold criminally liable . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 2 February 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 27 ) . Space Industry ( Indemnities ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Mr Jonathan Lord present a Bill to require operator licence authorise the carrying out of spaceflight activity to specify the licensee ' s indemnity limit . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 23 February 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 28 ) . Public Procurement ( british Goods and Services ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Sarah Champion present a Bill to make provision about public procurement in respect of british good and service ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 15 March 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 29 ) . Greater London Low Emission Zone Charging ( Amendment ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Gareth Johnson , support by Sir David Evennett , Mr Louie French , Dean Russell , Sir Robert Goodwill , Theresa Villiers , Elliot Colburn , Bob Blackman , Steve Tuckwell , Mrs Heather Wheeler , Mr Mark Francois and Julie Marson , present a Bill to amend the boundary of the Greater London Low Emission Zone and Ultra Low Emission Zone ; to provide that Transport for London may not make an order amend those boundary without the consent of the Secretary of State ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 22 March 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 30 ) . unauthorised Entry to Football Matches Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Kevin Brennan , support by Steve Brine , Dame Caroline Dinenage , Clive Efford , Julie Elliott , Damian Green , Dr Rupa Huq , Simon Jupp , Jane Stevenson and Giles Watling , present a Bill to create an offence of unauthorised entry at football match ; and to provide for the offence to be list as an offence for which a football ban order can be impose follow conviction . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 23 February 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 31 ) . license Hours Extensions Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Mrs Emma Lewell - Buck present a Bill to amend the Licensing Act 2003 so that license hour order can be make by negative resolution statutory instrument . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 19 January 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 32 ) . british Citizenship ( Northern Ireland ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Gavin Robinson present a Bill to make provision about british citizenship in respect of people bear in Ireland after 31 December 1948 who be , or have be , resident in Northern Ireland ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 26 January 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 33 ) . community and suspend Sentences ( Notification of Details ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Ruth Jones present a Bill to require offender serve community and certain other sentence to provide information about name use and contact detail . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 23 February 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 34 ) . Health and Equality act ( Amendment ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Elizabeth Truss , support by Dame Priti Patel , Ian Paisley , Jackie Doyle - Price , Dr Caroline Johnson , Nick Fletcher , Miriam Cates , Ben Bradley , Tom Hunt , Robin Millar , Andrew Lewer and Marco Longhi , present a Bill to regulate access to hormone therapy for child under the age of 18 ; to make provision relate to social transition practice in school and other setting ; to make provision regard the meaning of the protect characteristic of sex ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 15 March 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 35 ) . Hereditary Titles ( Female Succession ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Harriett Baldwin , support by Ms Harriet Harman , Nickie Aiken , Tim Loughton , Sarah Champion , Philip Davies , Dame Maria Miller and Jess Phillips , present a Bill to make provision for the succession of female heir to hereditary title ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 23 February 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 36 ) . off - Road Vehicles ( registration ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Anne McLaughlin present a Bill to make provision for a compulsory registration scheme for certain off - road vehicle ; to require such vehicle to display a registration plate ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 19 April 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 37 ) . sentencing Bill Second reading [ relevant document : tenth Report of the Justice Committee of Session 2022 - 23 , public opinion and understanding of sentencing , HC 305 ; correspondence from the Chair of the Justice Committee to the Lord Chancellor , on the Criminal Justice Bill and the Sentencing Bill , report to the House on 28 November 2023 . ] I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . it be a privilege to move second reading of the Government ' s recently introduce Sentencing Bill . the first responsibility of any Government be to protect the public . level of crime have come down by more than 50 % since 2010 . violent crime be also down by over 50 % in the last 13 year , and when it come to reoffende , the rate be down by six percentage point since 2010 . indeed , his Majesty ' s chief inspector of constabulary have say that " England and Wales be arguably safe than they have ever be " . the Bill build on that record to put public protection at the heart of sentencing . it will enable we to remove from circulation those who pose the most risk and to follow the evidence on the most effective way to reduce reoffende and cut crime . let I start with the most dangerous offender . I be refer to those whose crime be so appalling and who present such a high risk that send they to prison for as long as possible be the only way to protect the public . as the House will know , follow the Criminal Justice Act 2003 , all prisoner give a standard determinate sentence be entitle to be release automatically at the halfway point , no matter their crime or the length of their sentence . I want to be crystal clear about what that mean . that mean that a rapist sentence to 12 year be out of prison in six . they be release at that point and there be no power to detain they in prison for long . through the Release of Prisoners ( Alteration of Relevant Proportion of Sentence ) Order 2020 , we legislate to ensure that serious violent and sexual offender sentence to seven year or more have to serve two third of their sentence in custody , with the rest under strict licence condition . in the same year , the terrorist Offenders ( restriction of Early Release ) Act 2020 ensure that terrorist offender also serve at least two third of their sentence or custodial term in custody and be not release without the agreement of the Parole Board . we go far in 2021 . a new type of sentence be create in the Counter - Terrorism and Sentencing Act 2021 that mean that the most serious and dangerous terrorist offender will now serve a minimum custodial term of 14 year . just last year , we pass the Police , Crime , Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 , which put a stop to the automatic halfway release of other serious sexual and violent offender who be sentence to a standard determinate sentence of four year or more . the net effect be that they , too , should now serve two third of their sentence in prison . the Act also allow for the overriding of the automatic release date of offender sentence to a standard determinate sentence who be find to be dangerous while in custody , and for increase sentence for cause death by dangerous driving and cause or allow the death of a child . all those be sensible change to sentencing that be design to protect the british people from harm . now , we go far . under the provision on whole - life order , for the very bad offender who kill in the most appalling circumstance , life really will mean life . I be grateful to my right hon . and learn Friend for give way so early in his speech . will he confirm that the proposal he be present to the House on the Government ' s behalf will ensure that anyone who commit an offence like those commit by Colin Pitchfork , who brutally rape and murder two young woman , and who might very well be release tomorrow after the Parole Board decision on the matter , will likely spend the whole of their natural life behind bar ? let I take this opportunity to pay tribute to my hon . friend . he have raise this issue on behalf of his constituent with such assiduity and so conscientiously , with I personally and , indeed , in the House . he be absolutely right to do so : that crime be truly abominable and utterly atrocious . at its very heart , this part of the Bill cater for precisely those sort of offence , where there be murder accompany by sexual or sadistic conduct , so that in such circumstance , when the offender hear the clang of the prison gate , that will be the last time that they breathe free air . let I turn to the very bad offender who kill in the most appalling circumstance . clause 1 create a new duty for the court to impose a whole - life order in case of the murder of a child that involve the abduction of the child , murder involve sexual or sadistic conduct , and murder carry out for the purpose of advance a political , religious , racial or ideological cause . there will be judicial discretion in exceptional circumstance . the clause will also impose whole - life order for the murder of a single victim that involve sexual or sadistic conduct , so that murderer like the killer of Sarah Everard and Zara Aleena will never enjoy the freedom that they cruelly deny their victim . the measure will ensure that severe punishment be available for those who commit the very bad crime . in my statement to the House on 16 October , I set out the Government ' s intention to legislate so that rapist and serious sexual offender serve their whole custodial term . again , the Bill make good on that promise . clause 2 to 5 and clause 7 will mean , when implement , that those convict of rape or serious sexual offence will now serve every single day of their custodial term in custody , without the possibility of their case be refer to the Parole Board . that mean that the custodial term hand down by the judge on the day they be sentence will be exactly how long they initially spend in prison . they will then have a period on licence in the community after their custodial term end . this will ensure that their victim get the justice they deserve and the public can be protect . all the offence in clause 2 have a maximum life sentence , so the propose new power to require offender to attend sentencing hearing would apply . however , will my right hon . and learn Friend look at extend that power ? it would not cover other serious crime , include serious sexual offence such as the sexual assault of a child under 13 , as happen in a case in my constituency , where the offender hide in his cell . he would not be compel to come to sentencing under the power we be propose . I pay tribute to my hon . friend for raise that appalling case . it be important to note that in respect of this Bill and the provision to require offender to serve the entirety of their sentence , clause 2 relate to section 8 of the Sexual Offences Act 2003 , on cause or incite a child under 13 to engage in sexual activity , so that be cover . on my hon . friend ' s separate point about attendance , we be very clear , follow the case of Lucy Letby and other , that it be a grievous affront to victim and family for defendant who have be convict , after a fair trial , not to face the music , in simple term . they need to be there in front of the court so that they can hear society ' s condemnation express through the sentencing remark of the judge , and so that the peace that have be deny their victim should be deny they as well . they need to understand that condemnation . my hon . friend raise an interesting point about the scope of the requirement for people to attend court ; it be a fair one and we should certainly discuss that . I turn to the second aim of the Bill : to cut crime . ultimately , that be how we protect the public . as it stand , the situation be that , too often , offender be lock up for short period at exorbitant cost . the experience make they bad , and they end up commit further offence as a result . clause 6 will introduce a presumption to suspend short sentence of 12 month or less , direct the court to hand down a suspend sentence order instead . the fact be that almost 80 % of convict offending every year be reoffende ; much of the crime in our country be commit by someone who have have at least one brush with the law . the criminal justice system be mean to punish wrongdoing — of course it be . but , in the interest of society , it be also there to rehabilitate wrongdoer and set they on the right path so that they do not reoffend and make more victim of crime in the process . if we want to protect the public and cut crime , the most effective thing we can do be intervene to break the cycle of offend — punish , of course , but rehabilitate too . to do that we must properly examine the evidence available to we . I thank the Justice Secretary for give way and very much welcome the introduction of the presumption against short sentence as a way , as he say , of cut reoffende , cut crime , cut the number of victim and help to turn life around . however , that will mean great pressure on probation service to do the job of rehabilitation outside a custodial setting . Lord Ramsbotham , who be sadly miss in this place and more widely , produce an excellent report , which I have commission , call " People be not thing " , about the future of a successful probation service . will the Justice Secretary agree to meet I and representative from the probation service to look at Lord Ramsbotham ' s report and see how it could help to build the kind of probation service that we need ? I be at pain to meet directly with the probation service — not just the leader , important though they be , but frontline practitioner . they do an exceptionally important job . my mum train as a probation officer and I know how much of a difference they make . I be speak to they directly about the workload that they face and how they can target it to protect the public most effectively . as the Secretary of State know , I do not accept the argument that the good way to protect the public be to send thousand few criminal to prison , but I be sure we will continue that debate later . obviously , what he have announce be such a big departure from how we have do thing in the past . will he confirm that the Government would introduce a sunset clause into the legislation , so that we can check whether it have achieve what he hope or what I fear and that we can come back to the issue later ? my second point be that I be sure the Secretary of State would not want the new measure to apply to people convict of knife crime , which be a scourge of many community around the country . will he confirm that knife crime would not be include and make sure that that be clear in the legislation ? I thank my hon . friend for engage with I so closely , carefully and constructively on the Bill . his point about sunset clause and knife be well understand and well make ; it seem to we that there be real merit in they . I look forward to discuss those with he in due course . we certainly see the force of those point . I have obviously look carefully at the definition relate to those who would simply not be incarcerate as a result of the new measure . the Centre for Social Justice have do a huge amount of work on this . the key point , exclude those who commit violent crime , be that most prisoner have an average reading age of a 10 - year - old . they have fail in the academic system . they often come from broken home and have drug addiction . the key problem be not so much about sentencing but about what we do to try to put they straight and rehabilitate they . the question have to be about how formidable , strong and determine what we do will be and the extent to which failure on that will come back into the prison service . my right hon . friend speak with great authority about this point , and I agree with every syllable of what he have say . one of the problem be that the — how can I put it ? — deficiency with which some individual unfortunately suffer , such as illiteracy , of which I have a huge understanding , be not susceptible of be address through short sentence . the question be how good to ensure that they can be address — and it be not just a question of illiteracy ; the deficiency could be drug addiction . one encouraging factor which lie behind this be the additional £ 532 million in drug rehabilitation support from the Department of Health and Social Care , together with criminal justice staff , to assist with the health and addiction side of it . however , my right hon . Friend make a powerful point . if we want to rehabilitate people , we will not be able to do so unless we address the issue of literacy . however , prison be not necessarily the good place in which to resolve it in the short term , as oppose to the long term . rise — I be extremely grateful — hang on , I haven ' t give way yet . [ laughter . ] I give way to my right hon . friend the Member for South Holland and the Deepings . my right hon . and learn Friend be such a tease . as my right hon . and learn Friend will know , 6 % of the offence that attract a 12 - month sentence be indeed for the possession of an article with a blade or point , in other word a knife , and a further 9 % be for common assault and battery . those be the kind of sentence that we be speak about here , and if you be a victim of assault , you do not really worry about whether your attacker be literate or illiterate ; you just worry about have be attack . there be some important point to make about this . as my right hon . friend will know , there be a whole suite and hierarchy of offence of assault . there be common assault , but if there be even a reddening of a skin , that become assault occasion actual bodily harm , which carry a five - year maximum sentence — although , of course , this apply only to those who be give sentence of under 12 month . however , if the skin be pierce in any way or there be any serious harm , that be charge as grievous bodily harm , either simpliciter or with intent , and carry a maximum of life imprisonment . we must therefore be very clear on what we be talk about and what we be not talk about , and we be not talk about grievous bodily harm . let I also stress that the two high category of offence that fall within the 12 - month sentencing period be drive offence and offence relate to class b drug . however , I take on board the important point make by my right hon . friend , and I refer he to the remark I make to our hon . friend the Member for Shipley ( Philip Davies ) . I be grateful to the Secretary of State for give way . he be be very generous . the presumption of suspend the sentence do not apply in exceptional circumstance . can the Secretary of State give we two or three example of what he consider to be exceptional circumstance ? this be a formulation that be well understand by the court . it apply , for example , in respect of possession of a firearm contrary to the Firearms Act 1968 , as be . I once defend a young woman , 16 year old , who be in possession of a firearm — although , in fact , she be not . her boyfriend , who have subject she to coercive and control behaviour , have say , " you have to hold on to the gun , because I think the police will come and find I . " she have the gun in her house , but she do not touch it or do anything with it . the police come , raid her house , find the gun , and say , " there be a mandatory minimum sentence of three year . " she have never commit an offence in her life : she be of completely good character . should the judge have sentence she immediately to three year ' custody — it would have be at least five year if she have be 18 or over — or should he have consider that there be exceptional circumstance ? in that case he find that there be , and that be the sort of case in which that might apply . the evidence be clear . More than 50 % of those who be sentence to less than 12 month will go on to commit another offence within a year of release , and the cost to taxpayer of keep someone in custody for that time be a staggering £ 47 , 000 per year , per prisoner . in the case of offender who be give suspend sentence in the community — those be still custodial sentence which go on to their record as sentence of imprisonment — the reoffende rate be much low , at about 24 % . this type of community sentencing can have tough condition attach to it , such as tagging , strict curfew — incidentally , we have extend the maximum period for which a curfew can apply to 20 hour out of 24 — and exclusion zone , which be design to protect the public and keep offender out of trouble . a requirement to receive treatment for addiction or mental health problem can also help offender to address what be so often contribute factor to their offending . critically , as this should be about punishment as well , that can also enable they to stay in work and participate in community payback , such as pick up litter , remove graffiti and otherwise repay their debt to society . rise — order . just before the Secretary of State take an intervention , I wish to remind hon . and right hon . member that if they be go to intervene on a speaker , it be polite to stay to the end of the speech — as well as to be there at the beginning . I believe that the Secretary of State be about to give way to Neil o ' Brien . yes , I give way to my hon . friend . be we really compare like with like here ? the statistic produce by the Ministry of Justice compare the effect of community sentence on reoffende from the start of the community sentence , but the end of the prison sentence , therefore completely ignore the effect on reoffende of the actual prison sentence itself . surely if we want to understand the effect of short prison sentence on the community , we must take into account the actual effect on crime of the prison sentence itself . I have look very carefully at the extremely rigorous analysis that my hon . friend have provide . have sit down , wrap a wet towel round my head and look at the stat , here be the position . somebody who complete a custodial sentence and come out be , for that 12 month thereafter , more than 50 % likely to commit an offence , but for somebody who complete a suspend sentence order and come out , the figure be around half that for the 12 month thereafter . [ interruption . ] I just want to finish the point . this be not something that be peculiar to England and Wales ; as I have observe from the datum . this be a pattern that be see in Australia , the Netherlands , France and Northern Ireland . in simple term , it be because , with the technology that we have now , there be a sword of Damocles hang over someone ' s head . if , for example , the trigger for their offending have be that they drink too much and their index offence be that they thump someone in the queue in Gartree in Leicestershire , by put on that alcohol tag they know that if they breach that tag by drink — I thank my right hon . friend the Member for North West Hampshire ( Kit Malthouse ) who roll out those alcohol tag — it mean that they can expect to be breach and bring back before the court where they can then go to prison . it be a sharp sword of Damocles that hang over they . rise — I will make a bit of progress , but I will give way to my right hon . friend the Member for North West Hampshire . as my right hon . and learn Friend know , I support this move , and I say so when he make the previous statement to the House . however , he will have pick up , as I have , a sense that this be a diminution of the retribution element of sentencing . I wonder whether he would consider during the passage of the Bill look at whether the alternative disposal to prison could be make in many way much tough to satisfy that requirement from so many victim that there need to be a sense of punishment . for example : extend the time that people be on home detention and curfew ; extend the time that they be on a sobriety tag from a maximum , I think , of 120 day to a year or 18 month . many people would see a trade there — okay , he be not go to prison for three month , but he will be on a curfew for 18 month . they would see that as a well trade than like for like . that be a brilliant point , and I agree with it wholeheartedly . I think there be furth that we can go . the position at present be that there be a maximum number of hour that a person can do unpaid work . in simple term , that be design to ensure that it be complete within a reasonable period of time , but , absolutely , we need to consider whether we have get it right . my right hon . friend make a very important point about the extent to which we can use technology to punish effectively . in the old day , the maximum period of time a person could be put on a curfew be about 12 or 16 hour , but we have extend that , which be oppose by those on the Opposition Benches — [ interruption . ] you do . extend the time be important because it be part of the punishment . equally , those with alcohol tag effectively have someone supervise they — man - mark they — to ensure that they can not do something that they would ordinarily like to do . however , we should consider whether to go far . my right hon . friend , as always , make an excellent point . rise — I will make a bit of progress and then I will take an intervention . requirement to receive treatment for addiction or mental health problem can also support and address what be so often contribute factor to offend , as I have already indicate . so , what be go wrong with some of these short sentence ? one explanation be that when offender be send to prison for short period , there be not enough time for our prison staff to work with they to tackle their addiction , improve their employability , manage their behaviour , and reduce their risk of reoffende . they be often more likely to meet harden criminal keen to direct they ever far on the road to ruin . it be important to look at the evidence through the lens of the new technology that be available to we — modern solution that can support a modern sentencing approach , which be simply not available in our criminal justice system 10 year ago . other nation have spot that and we should too , which be why we be double the number of GPS tag available to court to ensure that offender comply with strict condition impose to curtail their liberty . my only concern about the reply my right hon . and learn Friend give I a few moment ago be that we be no long make a comparison with the same cohort . in a previous analysis by the Ministry of Justice , we have a like - for - like cohort and we look at the period from the end of the prison sentence and the start of the community sentence . will he agree to rerun that analysis with a matched cohort , this time with a like - for - like comparison begin at the start of the prison sentence , so that we have that incapacitation effect and can have a fair comparison ? I be certainly happy to look at the datum , but whichever way we slice it , the central message be unassailable . essentially , those who have a sentence of imprisonment that be suspend be less likely to offend — because of the sword of Damocles effect , as I have call it — than those who serve short custodial sentence . of course I will look at the datum , and I would be grateful for my hon . friend ' s assistance in do so . during my 17 year represent people before the criminal court , by far the large cohort be drug - addict shoplifter . I be afraid I must ask the Lord Chancellor for some clarity about what he say . many people I represent have 200 previous conviction , with 50 previous conviction for breach community order . I wonder whether , in the search for the perfect answer with the correct motivation , we be give a clean slate to shoplifter to continue offend with no risk whatsoever of a custodial term . I can not see how they would ever reach the exceptional circumstance test . first , I pay tribute to my hon . friend , who bring such expertise to the House and use it in the public interest as a member of the Justice Committee and , indeed , by lobby Ministers . it be precisely because of the circumstance of the people he have defend in the past that we have frame the Bill as we have . it have a really important aspect to which he do not advert . if someone be arrest , charge , convict and disgrace for commit an offence that would attract a short custodial sentence while they be subject to an order , the presumption do not apply . he know that all too often people in that group — I have see they in court as well — will be subject to a community order or some other order . community order , as he remember , can last up to three year . if anyone commit an offence during the currency of that order , the presumption do not apply . it be really important to make that point crystal clear . the Bill send a clear message , which go a bit like this : either someone comply with a court order or they go to prison . that be a really important message that we send . we underscore the authority of court order to give offender a clear choice : either they do what they should do — repay their debt to society , rehabilitate themselves , and stay off the booze , if that be what the court require — or they go to prison . it be up to they . let I move on . the tag enable the court to monitor whether offender be get on with their life by go to work and observe robust curfew of up to 20 hour a day , but we can also put in place exclusion zone to monitor whether offender be stay out of area where they be most likely to get into trouble — for example , a particular high street . they allow we to ensure that there be proper compliance with the punishment give out by the court — for example , unpaid work requirement . that mean that offender be visibly repay their debt to the community they offend against , but without it cost the taxpayer many ten of thousand of pound to effectively pay for bed and breakfast . if they breach any of those condition , the probation service be quickly notify so that action can be take . our high - tech alcohol tag have only be available for the past few year — my right hon . friend the Member for North West Hampshire do more than any other Minister to roll they out . they take a reading of the offender ' s sweat every 30 minute to make sure that they be confront the issue with alcohol that likely land they in trouble with the law in the first place . the result speak for themselves : offender who be order to wear those tag and have a complete ban on drink stay sober , on average , 97 % of the time . it not only mean that they stay out of trouble , but give they the opportunity to face up to their issue and turn their life around . it be easy to see why : they know that within minute of have a drink , any breach will be detect and a report will be send to the probation service . the offender be then at risk of be bring back before the court and face alternative disposal . offender mandate by the court to wear tag have that sword of Damocles hang over their head . they know that if they step even one inch out of line , they can be send straight to prison by the court . essentially , the new tag be the equivalent of expand the workforce so that we can man - mark individual offender . it be clear not only that we need this new approach , but that advance in technology mean that a new approach be possible . rise — I want to turn to the issue of exclusion , because they matter , but I sense that my right hon . friend want to intervene . my right hon . and learn Friend be be so generous — it be kind of he . give what he have say about technology , do he share the view that for the first time in offender management , whether post - sentence or during sentencing , we be able to insert certainty of detection of breach through technology ? thus far , detection have be uncertain , and offender have be able to gamble with their freedom . with sobriety tag they can not gamble , and we have see that face with the certainty of detection and the knowledge that if they breach , incarceration be certain , they make the right choice . as my right hon . and learn Friend say , they comply 97 % of the time . as he move towards this presumption , will he reassure member on all side of the House that that certainty of detection of breach will be reinforce as much as possible by the use of this technology ? my right hon . friend get right to the point . I would not be make this argument unless I have physically be to look at some of the tag and ask question of the supplier about what they can and can not do . let I tell he a little bit about the tag , although I recognise that he know about they already . first , they can tell if a person be in an environment where other be drink . in other word , a probation officer can say , " hang on , be you hang around with the wrong crowd , which be a risk factor for you ? " secondly , the probation officer can tell within half an hour whether that person have have a drink . I know that right hon . and hon . friend will be say , " hang on a second . " [ interruption . ] opposition member be say it too . they will be say , " I bet you there ' s a way round it , like put some foil between my leg and the sensor . " not a bit of it — that do not work . they will be think , " I could just snip it off . " no , because there be a circuit that then send the alarm . some offender have even try to put a sliver of ham between their skin and the tag — [ interruption . ] yes , or chicken skin . that do not work . these be highly sophisticated bit of equipment that be not available more than two year ago , and they work . yes , each one cost about £ 1 , 300 , but that be an awful lot cheap than £ 47 , 000 a year . we have deliberately design the Bill to ensure that there be exclusion from the presumption where offender threaten the safety of other , or where a court order be already in place . judge will retain the discretion to send offender straight to prison where they pose a significant risk of physical or psychological harm to a particular individual or be in breach of a court order , such as for stalk prevention — as member will know , we have introduce stalk prevention order . that will give victim of domestic abuse the space and time they need to rebuild their life , and will send a clear message to their tormentor that they can expect to go inside . that be really important , and I want to be crystal clear about that . a huge amount of work have take place over the past 10 year to protect woman and girl . we have introduce the Domestic Abuse Act 2021 , make the sentence for rape long , and create the offence of stalk and stalk protection order . let I be clear : where there be a significant risk of physical or psychological harm to a particular individual , the presumption do not apply . there will also be no duty on a judge to suspend a sentence where further offence be commit while an offender be on licence or subject to post - sentence supervision , and a court may still impose a sentence of immediate custody where it deem there be exceptional circumstance that justify not pass a suspend sentence . as I have say , the presumption do not apply if a court have impose an order , which send a powerful message to offender . I turn to home detention curfew measure . as the House know , HDC be introduce in 1999 to manage the transition of offender from custody back into the community while maintain significant restriction on their liberty . when HDC be introduce , more than half of prisoner be serve sentence of less than four year ; today , it be less than a quarter . because sentence have grow long , clause 8 will recalibrate HDC to restore eligibility to its original intention . this be a limited measure to adjust the HDC model , which have be successful in ensure that offender make the smooth transition possible from custody into the community , while continue to have their liberty appropriately curtail . I understand colleague ' representation on the Bill . this be just a first step in the legislative process . the Government will of course continue to engage seriously with member on their specific and important concern as we look to strike the right balance in sentencing . we believe it be possible to create a Bill that will enable the court to protect the public and to prevent more people from become victim , keep the british people safe from the most dangerous offender for long , while ensure that robust community sentence reduce reoffende and cut crime . I commend the Bill to the House . we be here to debate the Second reading of the Sentencing Bill , but it be impossible to consider the Bill properly without acknowledge what lie behind it : the prison capacity crisis . if prison in this country be not at crisis point , I doubt the Government would have propose the Bill . the prison crisis be very much the elephant in the room , and something that the Government be loth to discuss in detail — I notice it do not feature in the Secretary of State ' s opening remark — not least because , I imagine , they do not want to admit their failure over 13 year in government . this will not surprise the Secretary of State , but I can not let he get away with that . the true story of the Bill and its measure on short sentence and home detention curfew be that it be a rush response to the Government ' s own failure to manage the prison capacity crisis . the Bill be about reduce number , first and foremost , and not about get the criminal justice system to function more effectively or reduce reoffende . there be a case for careful consideration of how good we reduce reoffende and make rehabilitation a true success story of our criminal justice system , but act primarily because you be worried about the number and be about to run out of prison place be a very different exercise . the Government be act out of desperation , not principle , and the public deserve well . on the Government ' s watch , we have now reach 99 % capacity in the prison estate . of the 20 , 000 prison place that we be suppose to see by next year , few than half be on track to meet the deadline , and the total will not be deliver before 2030 . that have happen despite more than a decade of warning that the demand for prison place be on course to exceed supply , from everyone from the Justice Committee to the National Audit Office . the situation have be so bad for so long that early this year , the previous Justice Secretary , the right hon . member for Esher and Walton ( Dominic Raab ) , write to judge to make they aware of the significant population in prison , so that they could take it into account when pass sentence or decide whether to remand people in custody . as far back as 2016 , the Government have pledge to build 10 , 000 new prison place by 2020 . they do not get anywhere near that figure . in fact , the Public Accounts Committee find that they have manage to add only 206 place by that point . in November 2020 , the Government pledge 18 , 000 new prison place , but still with no real plan for delivery . a year later , they say that they would make it 20 , 000 by the mid - 2020s . accord to the late figure , no more than 8 , 200 place be set to be build by the end of 2025 . that represent a shortfall of 60 % . that be an abysmal record — a total failure to deliver by the so - call party of law and order and by a Government who can not seem to get anything build . our prison be completely full and now the Government have run out of space and time . as a result , we have the reform on short sentence . as the Secretary of State say , the Bill will introduce a presumption that sentence of 12 month or more will be suspend and instead serve in the community . accord to the Government ' s own impact assessment , the reform will mean that nearly 7 , 000 few offender go to prison , and yet these be exactly the same proposal that the Secretary of State ' s predecessor ' s predecessor — there have be many — tell we four year ago be not " the right way forward " . what have change , Secretary of State ? do he expect anyone to believe that it be nothing at all to do with the prison crisis ? the Government say today that these measure will aid rehabilitation and break the cycle of reoffende . they be right to say that the reoffende rate for those leave prison after serve less than 12 month be 50 % and for those on suspend order with condition it be 22 % , but if that be truly their priority and if there be a newfound zeal to deal with this problem — it be , I acknowledge again , a real problem — perhaps they would have do something before now about the 80 % of offender who have a previous conviction or caution . and even if I be to believe the Secretary of State and accept that this desire to cut reoffende be entirely unconnected to the fact that he have run out of prison place , the truth be that the Government be introduce these change without any thought - through or proper consideration of the infrastructure and resource that would support programme such as suspend sentence . the truth be that the Government will not break the cycle of reoffende without a function probation service . it be therefore astonishing that there be nothing in the Bill or any accompanying document that prioritise or appropriately resource the probation service . under this government , we have see the botched privatisation of the probation service . in fact , it be so disastrous that the Government then have to renationalise the same service . only these Conservatives could manage to make an absolute mess of both . today our probation service be understaffed , undervalue and overstretch . workload be soar , almost 50 , 000 working day among probation staff have be lose due to stress and nearly 20 % of the new trainee probation officer that the Government boast about recruiting have already quit . we have a probation service under huge pressure , and the problem of chronic understaffing point to a demoralised workforce and overstretch probation officer . in fact , the probation service be in such a poor state that in the 31 inspection since it be reunify in June 2021 , only one have receive a report of " good " . the rest be rate either as " require improvement " or " inadequate " . the Government be simply fail to keep the probation service properly staff , and these shortfall could have dangerous consequence . further pressure cause by the measure in the Bill and the end - of - custody supervise licence scheme have the potential to make matter much bad , and the Government ' s strategy appear to be to take the pressure off the prison service , only to transfer it to the probation service instead . that be not good enough . the Secretary of State have previously claim that he be give an additional £ 155 million a year to the probation service , but he know — and I know , and this House will know — that that be not new money . it be announce in 2020 as part of the reunification of the probation service , to help the service at that point to recruit staff , bring down caseload and deliver well supervision of offender in the community . it be fair to say that that money have not yet result in a service that be function as well as we would all , I be sure , want to see , and now there be to be a huge increase in its workload as a result of the measure in this Bill . the Government have provide no new funding , no new resource and no action plan to deal with the significant additional workload for the probation service . that be not credible , not reasonable and not safe . we will be table amendment in Committee to push the Government on their plan for the probation service , to ensure that it be work effectively and can deliver these new change in a way that do not compromise public protection . we have all be witness to the tragic outcome when the probation service fail , and it be paramount that the staffing and capacity issue in the service be urgently address before its workload be hugely increase by the measure in the Bill . let I turn to how the suspend sentence will work . in theory , both suspend sentence and community sentence should involve robust condition that work to protect the public and change offender ’ behaviour , such as a curfew or be prohibit from do a particular activity or go to a particular area , as the Secretary of State explain in his opening remark . the Government have be particularly keen to talk up the benefit of unpaid work requirement such as clean up graffiti . none of this be new . these type of sentence have exist since the last Labour Government , but we have plenty of evidence that 13 year of conservative neglect have completely squander their potential , because we know there have be a huge decline in the use of community sentence during that time , reportedly because judge do not have confidence that condition such as unpaid work will actually be deliver . let we look at the Government ' s most eye - catch attempt at a rebrand , the so - call " rapid deployment " unpaid work pilot . these be just the late example of the Government ' s failure to deliver on justice and law and order . this scheme be suppose to see offender , some of whom be on suspend sentence , deliver 20 , 000 hour of unpaid work in six month . four month in and , accord to the Ministry of Justice ' s own management information , the scheme have manage just over 2 , 000 hour . give the Government ' s track record , how can they reasonably expect the public to believe their promise that more suspend sentence will lead to meaningful , properly enforce community payback ? just as we will be press the Government on their plan for the probation service , we will also seek to push they to return to the House with proposal to make community sentence effective in respect of both reduce reoffende and , crucially , ensure public protection . I be surprised , and I believe the public will be too , that the Government be not specifically exclude any offence from the new presumption that short sentence will be suspend — not stalk , not domestic abuse and not even sexual offence . the main safeguard on which the Government be rely seem to be that the presumption will not apply in case where an offender have breach an order , or where the court believe that suspend the sentence would put a particular individual at significant risk of harm . we do not believe that be good enough . it do not protect the next partner of a know domestic abuser — an abuser she have not yet have the misfortune to meet — nor do it protect the many potential future victim of sex offender and stalker . we do not believe the court should effectively be strongarme into keep out of prison people who commit predatory and abusive crime in which vulnerable woman be most often the target . again , we will return to this in Committee , have table amendment to ensure that the court be free to send these potentially dangerous offender to prison without have to shoehorn they into the arbitrary and inadequate exception that the Bill currently provide . I note with interest that some conservative Back Benchers would like to see other exclusion in this Bill , and I be sure we will return to that debate in Committee . we only have to look at medium report to know that not exempt domestic abuser from these proposal could have serious consequence , and I will put two recent example before the House . under these new measure , violent offender such as Brendan Dugan , who launch a torture attack in which he bite his partner on the nose and strangle she until she think she be go to die , could avoid be lock up . after a disagreement with his girlfriend , Brendan become violent . he throw object around their home and then start his attack . he pin she down on the bed with his knee and put a pillow over her head before she push he off . he then get on top of she again and strangle she for about 30 second , while tell she that he be go to kill she . this man receive a 10 - month sentence and , under the Government ' s proposal , he could avoid prison time altogether . similarly , Lee David Smith be jail for harass , headbutt and threaten his ex - partner with a knife , as well as for threaten to burn down her house . he receive a sentence of eight month and he , too , could avoid jail time under these new proposal . we think such case be a good reason for far strengthen the Bill , and we look forward to those discussion in Committee . although the Government ' s recently announce end of custody supervise licence scheme be not include in the Bill , I must take this opportunity , which I believe the Government have be seek to avoid , to bring some much - need scrutiny to this emergency measure that be already under way . we now know that the Government be let thousand of people out early on so - call compassionate ground . compassion for whom ? stalker , domestic abuser and other dangerous offender . People whom a court have decide should be in prison . all of this , yet again , without a word on how the probation service be suppose to manage the flurry of new demand . I have already write to the Secretary of State to express my concern about the Government ' s absence of transparency on this matter . the end of custody supervise licence scheme be announce to Parliament and the public in a statement to this House on 16 October , but without a word on when it be expect to start . it have emerge through medium reporting and write question in Parliament that the scheme in fact begin the very next day . no detail have be publish on the working of the scheme , include in which prison it be operational , exactly which offender be eligible and how the risk to the public be be monitor . no number of prisoner release under the scheme or of those recall for breach their licence condition in the week that it have apparently be in use have be make available . the Labour Government , unlike this government , be clear and transparent out of respect for both this House and the public when they introduce the end of custody licence scheme in 2007 . the then Justice Secretary announce , from the place where the current one now sit , that he have write to prison governor that day , and he in turn publish the guidance that they be use for all to see and scrutinise . however , we have be tell by the Minister with responsibility for prison , probation and parole — the Minister of State , Ministry of Justice , the right hon . member for Charnwood ( Edward Argar ) — that there be no plan to publish the guidance issue to prison . this be an astonishing failure , and the lack of transparency in this matter be a huge mark of disrespect to Parliament , the whole of the public and , indeed , victim of crime . justice will not be deliver if man who have do real harm be quietly let out when a court intend that they should still be behind bar . justice can not be deliver in secret . the Secretary of State have have the chance to come clean on this issue for week , but instead he be hope that no one will notice . the opposition believe that prison be where sex offender , stalker and domestic abuser need to serve their time , instead of in the community , where the risk to their victim and future victim be simply too high . under Labour , court will never be require to suspend the sentence of an abuser or predator who receive a custodial sentence . these offender will not be allow out of prison before their intend release date , nor will potentially thousand of offender be release into our community without member of Parliament even know it be happen . again , we will seek to amend the Bill in Committee to make that a reality . the Bill also introduce measure to let serious offender — those on sentence of four year or more — go home up to six month early on electronic monitoring if they be deem " suitable " . once again , we be assure by the Government that violent offender , sex offender and domestic abuser will continue to be exclude , but they have not tell we exactly who this will include . what exactly do it mean for a person who be guilty of such a serious crime that our independent court have judge that only a sentence of four year or more be appropriate to be consider suitable for release perhaps just 18 month later ? what do this mean for victim ? at the very same time that the Government be assure they that their right will be enhance by the long - delay and inadequate Victims and Prisoners Bill , victim can no long be assure that people who have seriously harm they will serve the prison term they be sentence to . once again , there be not a word from the Secretary of State on how the probation service be suppose to cope with all this . the proposal for whole - life order be in line with our commitment to tougher sentence for those who commit the most truly heinous murder , and ensure that those convict of rape and serious sexual offence serve more prison time . those be measure that we will support as the Bill progress . however , let we be clear that those provision be not the main point of this Bill , and the Government should expect that we will stay focused on the short sentence reform and early release provision , as the Bill progress . we will not vote against the passage of this Bill today , even if we do believe that the Government owe it to this House and , more importantly , to all our constituent and victim of crime to be more honest about the real reason why this Bill be before we . these be emergency measure dress up as principled reform , and the Government ' s own failure have force their hand . we have grave concern that too many dangerous offender have be keep in scope for suspend sentence and early release , and that the vital public protection work of our probation service have be overlook , with potentially disastrous consequence . we will be press the Government in Committee and beyond to ensure that this Bill have a plan for an effective probation service , that they make sentence in the community truly effective and that the court will in no way be fetter in their ability to send domestic abuser , stalker and sex offender to prison , which be exactly where I be sure all of we in this House agree they all belong . I call the Chair of the Justice Committee . I shall be support the Bill without hesitation tonight , and I hope to do so without indulge in some of the party political knockabout that have bedevil debate around sentencing and prison for too long . frankly , our political system have fail the justice system over many decade , so let we try to step back and put the Bill into context , because context be sometimes lack in these debate . for the first time ever , the Criminal Justice Act 2003 set down five statutory purpose of sentencing : the punishment of offender , the reduction of crime , the reform and rehabilitation of offender , the protection of the public and the making of reparation to victim . there will always be a balance act between those statutory purpose , and the way in which the balance fall will vary , perfectly properly , accord to the nature of the offence and the circumstance of the offender . as with all sentencing , that must ultimately be decide by our independent judiciary . it be perfectly proper that Parliament set the legal framework within which the judiciary operate — that be a matter of public policy — but the application of those balance to an individual case will ultimately be decide by the judge or the magistrate , and we have a highly experienced Court of Appeal to put the judge right if he or she get it wrong in a very small minority of case . that be part of the check and balance of our system . it be equally clear to those of we who serve on the Justice Committee and those of we who , like the Lord Chancellor , have spend the whole of our work life in the criminal justice system and the criminal court of this country — both prosecute and defend — that court do not , and do not pretend to , sentence in a vacuum . of course judge be aware of public opinion , so engage in debate about sentencing policy be legitimate and justified , but we also owe it to the public to do that in a temperate , consider and evidence - base fashion . all too often , I be afraid , we get a bidding war as to who can have the tough rhetoric around sentencing policy , but toughness have very little to do with deliver impact on the ground . it be against that background that I think the proposal in the Bill be a sensible package . let we look at what the Bill do and do not achieve . the Justice Committee carry out a very detailed piece of scrutiny , and we have publish a report , " public opinion and understanding of sentencing " . in seek to put some context into the debate around sentencing , we do not just leave it to the view of expert witness or our own view as politician ; we make a more extensive effort at public engagement than any Select Committee before we . for example , we commission a public polling exercise . some 2 , 057 adult in England and Wales be ask about their knowledge of , and view on , sentencing . we also use Involve , a well - establish participation charity , to facilitate a deliberate engagement exercise , and we have some 25 adult in England and Wales meet over three half - day session to discuss the aim and objective of sentencing . the public — perhaps no one can blame they — get very little information about how sentencing work and how the justice system work , so their information be very patchy . as an example , only 22 % of respondent be aware that Parliament be responsible for set the maximum sentence in law for a criminal offence . so if we be to have a proper debate about sentencing , that must be do from a properly inform basis . we find that the public ' s opinion , although sometimes have that lack of information about how sentencing work , show a certain degree of consistency and common sense about what the objective of it be . People certainly want to see the public protect . they also want to see justice do to the victim , and reoffende prevent . those , again , be all part of the balance . it be interesting that when member of the public be ask in the abstract about sentencing , their view on sentencing be much harsh than when they be ask about the fact of an individual case . some time ago — some Members may remember this — the Ministry of Justice have an online tool call " you be the Judge " . that consistently show that when people be ask in the abstract what they think a sentence should be , they would say , " Whack — go hard ! " but when the fact of the case and circumstance of the offender be put to they — the very balance that the sentencer must always use — they adopt a much more nuanced approach . once the public have the proper information , they be not simplistic in their view in the way that some politician and some of the medium like to suggest , so we owe they that proper and informed debate . the other interesting point that arise be that the public think that prison sentence be much soft than they actually be . a majority of the people we speak to actually think that those sentence have get soft or light in recent year , whereas the evidence clearly demonstrate that exactly the reverse be true . sentence for indictable offence have grow significantly over the last 10 to 15 year . we actually imprison more people as a percentage of those convict of serious offence , and we imprison they for long . that place very real pressure on our prison system . we must therefore be honest with the public about what the trade - off be in this regard . as the former Lord Chief Justice , Lord Burnett of Maldon , say when he give evidence to our inquiry , judge be aware that public opinion have harden in relation to offence of a sexual nature and violence . that be reflect in what the Lord Chancellor and Secretary of State be propose to do in the Bill . the public expect that those who be dangerous will get long sentence . I have no trouble with that at all , but , equally , £ 47 , 000 a year be an expensive amount to be spend . it be money well spend on the dangerous people — as the Lord Chancellor may have once say , imprisonment be really for those we be rightly frightened of ; those who be a threat to we . but , as my right hon . friend the Member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) say , many of the people we have in prison at the moment be there because of many failure in their life . those be sometimes self - inflict , or sometimes a result of circumstance beyond their control that have lead to poor mental health , illiteracy , poor education , alcohol and drug addiction , break - up in family relationship early in their life and chaotic life . all those thing lead many of the people in prison — perhaps the majority — into prison . that chime with my own experience in 30 year at the Bar . I prosecute and defend in serious criminal case , as the Lord Chancellor have , and I have meet some thoroughly evil people in my time ; so , I suspect , have the Lord Chancellor — [ interruption . ] I hasten to add that that be purely at the Bar and in the court . I have also meet an awful lot of people who come into that category of mix - up people with failure in their life . we need to be more nuanced , and in fact I think the public recognise that , when it come to a sensible approach to sentencing . I be a little surprised that some colleague in the House have accuse we of be a bit soft in relation to some of these matter . there be nothing soft about the Lord Chancellor ' s experience . dare I say to some of my right hon . and hon . friend and other member that the Lord Chancellor have lock up more dangerous criminal , or have a hand in do so , than anybody else in the House ? he need take no lesson from anybody about be tough on criminal . he have do it every work day of his life and have the great credibility for it . [ interruption . ] terrorist , murderer — you name it . he have actually do the job , rather than pontificate about it from the green leather Benches . against that background , we ought to give credibility to the proposal . what , then , do we need to do ? it be not a question of harsh sentencing or soft sentencing . that be a sterile debate . what we really ought to be talk about be smart sentencing . that mean lock up dangerous people for as long as necessary and be honest with the public about the cost , but it also mean find well and cleverer way to deal with those who can be rehabilitate . not everyone can be , but the majority probably can be . give how overcrowded our prison be at the moment — old , victorian and with too many people in they — it be impossible to do the rehabilitative work necessary to turn life around . we simply can not get the education do , and we can not get the drug and alcohol treatment course do sufficiently to get people clean . we can not enable they to come out and get a job , because we simply have too many people in there at the moment . that be not serve the purpose of imprisonment very well at all . I might make one point in pass to the Lord Chancellor . I refer to the statutory purpose of sentencing at the beginning of my speech . interestingly , there be no statutory definition of the purpose of prison . perhaps we should look at that as the Bill progress . it might concentrate the mind as to what government and Oppositions constructively want to do and what we want as a society from the prison system that cost we so much . we might take that forward constructively — I hope on a cross - party basis — as the Bill go forward . against that background , I want to turn very briefly to the measure in the Bill . whole - life order have be discuss . there be a balance to be strike , but my one concern — the Lord Chancellor will know it — be what be the incentive now for a person charge with murder , who be go to get a whole - life order , to plead guilty ? that be a trouble because we all know that for a victim to relive an experience in court , or for a family to have the death of their love one relive in court , eke out over many day , be a real trauma . therefore , the discount for a guilty plea be an important part in the justice system . it not only speed up the trial , but above all it relieve victim and their family of a trauma . I would be concerned if we inadvertently create a reduction in the number of people plead guilty . it be not a high number for offence of this kind compare with other type of offence , but we should bear in mind any unintended consequence . it seem eminently sensible to extend the home detention curfew arrangement , not least because when they be bring in they relate to four year ' imprisonment . because of sentence inflation — sentence have get long — the percentage of the prison population sentence to imprisonment of four year or less and qualify for early release have diminish . what we be do , in effect , be catch up with sentence inflation by make release on home detention available , which be eminently sensible . the truth be that if people can make it work early , it be all the well . the soon we can get people reintegrate into society , the easy that will be . our report in the past have urge that more be do to ensure that people come out of prison with a place to live and an opportunity to get work . release on home detention will ease that transition . at the moment , there can be something of a cliff edge . People come out with their discharge grant and very little else — they be on their own . that be why period of post - sentence release be very valuable , and this be a sensible way to do that . finally , let I turn to the presumption in favour of suspend sentence of less than 12 month . the first thing to say be that it be a presumption . ultimately , it will still be for the judge or magistrate to decide . it be perfectly reasonable as a matter of public policy to say that unless there be exceptional circumstance , short sentence shall be suspend . ultimately , though , there will be case in which the judge will , perfectly properly , decide that that be not appropriate . let I give one example . reference be make to case of domestic violence ; clearly that be something we can look at . a very different case that be often raise with I be that of pervert the course of justice , when someone , for example , tell a lie about who be drive a car when they get a speed ticket — something not wholly unknown even in this place . the person who give the lie evidence to the court about that undermine the justice system , and it have be feel that the clang of the prison gate be necessary in those circumstance . there be not many of they , but that be exactly the sort of circumstance in which the presumption would not be use , as well as the other one that be set out . the provision in the Bill do not change that , but it do mean that generally people would not be sentence immediately . the other important difference , to which the Lord Chancellor refer , be that we now have far well control over people when they be on suspend sentence than we do in the old day . the use of suspend sentence have drop off greatly : I think that now only about 4 % of sentence of imprisonment be suspend ; it use to be much more . now that we have much more effective tagging , curfew and alcohol treatment order , I think we could use they more effectively , because they be a well mean of control . so I think the approach be sensible . on the reoffende statistic , I have to say that I understand the point make by my hon . friend the Member for Harborough ( Neil o ' Brien ) in his intervention , but when I look at the stat it be pretty clear that they consistently show that there be a low level , by about four percentage point at the very least , and that that apply whether the sentence be three month , six month or nine month . just to clarify the point , the statistic that my hon . friend cite show that for those who be give a short prison sentence , the reoffende rate after they leave prison be 75 . 6 % , compare with 71 . 5 % for those on a suspend sentence , but for somebody who have be in prison for , say , one year , their reoffende rate over that year while they be in prison be zero , so the right comparison be between zero and 71 % . if we include the effect of the prison sentence rather than ignore it , as the Ministry of Justice ' s 2019 research do , there be an astronomical difference between the reoffende rate in toto over one year for those who be give a short prison sentence versus those who be not . there be a complete misunderstanding of what the statistic show we . I be sorry to have to say that my hon . friend be just plain wrong on that , because that assume that there be an incapacitation effect , as be sometimes say — when they be in prison , yes . but equally , there be perfectly good evidence to suggest that there be an incapacitation effect of properly work through and impose sentence in the community as well , so it be not a zero incapacitation effect the other way round . plus , there be the other damaging thing that be do in prison in term of the inability to turn life around , and the majority of people be go to be release . the other problem , which be not pick up in my hon . friend ' s stat — I do not criticise he for it , but it be a fact — be that short sentence be clearly demonstrate to disrupt community tie . that be important because the three thing that be generally say to be good to prevent reoffending be a steady relationship , a home or roof over your head , and a job . if anyone have those and they get a short sentence of imprisonment , the likelihood be that they will lose their flat and their job , and it be much more likely that the relationship will break up , and they then come out in a bad place to avoid reoffende than they start in . there be , then , good sense in the policy . of course , we can always examine the stat , but there be a good public policy reason for the change , because it actually reduce reoffende , and if it reduce reoffende , that be in the public good , because few people reoffende mean few victim of crime , and few victim of crime be in the public interest and be a sensible use of money . I say that as somebody who have never be a soft touch when it come to these matter in my professional life . I say it in a hard - head fashion as somebody who spend their life do this , and I know that the Lord Chancellor have come to the same conclusion . I urge member to support the Bill . it strike the right balance . these issue be always difficult and sometimes emotive , but I hope that I have demonstrate that balance on the basis of the evidence that I have pick up as Chair of the Select Committee , and I hope we can find common ground on which to take the Bill forward . we have have a very piecemeal approach to sentence policy over the year , under government of all persuasion ; we probably need a more holistic approach . the Bill do sensible thing and I hope the House will support it . it be a pleasure to make a brief contribution to this Second Reading debate . I hope to add to point that I have raise during the progress of the Victims and Prisoners Bill . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Bromley and Chislehurst ( Sir Robert Neill ) . he always make substantial contribution , on these matter and other , to which it be always a pleasure to listen . in January 2020 , my constituent Mike o ' Leary be murder in what prosecutor during the subsequent trial label a " carefully plan execution " . his body be desecrate in an attempt to hide the crime . the key bit of evidence that secure the guilty verdict be find only in March 2020 , when a search of the murderer ' s property find tissue matter that match Mike ' s dna : a piece of small intestine in an oil barrel . as I have say in previous debate , it be difficult to imagine the suffering of the bereaved family . lose a love one be bad enough , but be unable to process grief with a proper burial or cremation bring extra suffering , as do know what be do to their remain . the family have be extremely brave . discuss the history of the case with Mike ' s mother , Val , will haunt I . I know Mike ' s sister , Lesley , many year before enter this place — she have become an active campaigner on victim ' issue — as well as Mike ' s wife , Sian , and their son Wayne , Simon and Phillip . I pay tribute to they all for their strength and courage . the family have throw their energy at the campaign for a second Helen ' s law . minister will remember the campaign for the first Helen ' s law , lead by the family of Helen McCourt , who be murder in 1988 at the age of only 22 . her body have never be recover . her mother , Marie , successfully campaign for a law — the Prisoners ( Disclosure of Information about Victims ) Act 2020 — to make it more difficult for perpetrator to obtain parole if they do not reveal the location of remain . I meet Marie and her husband John to discuss her campaign for a second Helen ' s law . they be also an incredible family and a source of inspiration ; they find the strength to carry on despite the bad that life throw at they . both the family that I have mention support a new crime of desecration or concealment of a murder body , to reflect the extra suffering cause for bereaved family . another option would be for the Government to revise the sentencing guideline so that perpetrator of such heinous crime receive an extra penalty . the family tell I that there be currently no consistency in sentencing . in some case , murderer receive long sentence than the killer of my constituent despite there have be no premeditation or effort to destroy or conceal the body . I be sure that member across the House would agree that desecration or concealment of a murder body be an additional cruel act that deserve additional punishment and should be reflect in the law . regrettably , such act be become more prevalent . the law must be use as a disincentive . the Bill be the perfect opportunity for the Government to act , and I hope that Ministers will use it to make it clear that those who commit evil act of that nature will be punish accordingly . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Carmarthen East and Dinefwr ( Jonathan Edwards ) , who speak with great conviction on behalf of the family he refer to . I too meet Helen McCourt ' s mother , Marie , and be involve in work on Helen ' s law during my time in government . such harrowing case really do shape the mind of those in the government , be it in the Home Office or elsewhere — the Lord Chancellor will have his own experience — with respect to the human consequence not just of sentencing , but of criminal act and of the pro and sometimes the failure of the criminal justice system . I will touch on some of those point today . this be the third criminal justice - relate Bill that we have debate in the Chamber in recent day , follow the Criminal Justice Bill last week and the remain stage of the Victims and Prisoners Bill early this week . the House will know how strongly I feel about these issue , particularly have be an early advocate of a victim Bill . in debate on criminal justice and sentencing , we must always put victim at the heart of our discussion and reflect on the impact of crime and criminality , and on the effect that the most appalling , abhorrent crime have on victim and their family . it will therefore come as no surprise to the House that , although I welcome part of the Bill , I feel that there be a contradiction in it . on the one hand , it rightly toughen up and strengthen sentence for some crime — I be very much for that — but on the other , it risk let some type of offender off the hook . the hon . member for Birmingham , Ladywood ( Shabana Mahmood ) mention something that we should reflect on as the Bill pass through the House : which offender will be list for early release ? I feel strongly about the whole issue of perpetrator of violence — violent and sexual offender — full stop , but in particular about those who harm woman and girl . the Lord Chancellor have already touch on one of the most appalling case I have to deal with as Home Secretary , which be the murder of Sarah Everard . the circumstance behind that — the Angiolini inquiry be still take place — should remind we why we need a system that work in the right way . my hon . friend the Member for Bromley and Chislehurst ( Sir Robert Neill ) speak about transparency in the system . we need much more transparency in decision making . I say that on behalf of the public , who will have certain view about we — what we stand for and the legislation that we pass in this House . we owe they a well understanding of how the sentence give in our court be shape and how our criminal justice system work . as Home Secretary , I sit on the Criminal Justice Board with my Ministry of Justice counterpart , representative of the legal profession and the Lord Chief Justice , as well as the former Lord Chief Justice , Lord Burnett of Maldon . so much take place that rightly never see the light of day , but we should do much more to educate and raise awareness of sentence and the justice system . when we debate these issue , it be important to remind the House of our public service responsibility when it come to law and order . we all stand united on protect the public . this Bill and previous legislation , in which we have all be involve , will stand the test of time on that . I believe fundamentally that the Government ' s first duty should always be to protect our public and the security of our country , and the criminal justice system be vital to that . during the Bill ' s passage , we should reflect on what I call institutional state failure , which lead to repeat offence and the cycle of people go in and out of prison . member have already discuss get people back into work and off addiction , and deal with literacy problem . we all stand by that . however , when it come to sentencing , we must do everything possible to make sure that we keep the public away from violent criminal and dangerous sex offender . that must always be a priority . in recent year , we have make significant change and investment and give significant support as part of that work . the investment in 20 , 000 more police officer have be vital . we now need to make sure that those resource and specialist work to tackle dangerous criminal and sex offender dovetail with the criminal justice system . that mean more prison place as well . we also need a Crown Prosecution Service that can support more investigation . I have have the privilege of work with police officer , and meet and support victim of crime . we want to support the extraordinary work of those employ in the criminal justice system , include on the frontline , by ensure that they have the resource so that crime be fully investigate and punish . a great deal of work have take place . on organise crime gang , county line have be dismantle , knife have be take off our street and we have bring in violence reduction unit , which take target action in town across the country to deal with crime and antisocial behaviour . a range of intervention be already make a difference . we must build on those . notably , in the Police , Crime , Sentencing and Courts Act , we strengthen the punishment and monitoring of sex offender . that have already be refer to in the debate . we put vigorous sentence in place for serious offender and strong punishment for criminal . those strong sentence do not exist back in 2010 . I therefore welcome many area of the Bill . it build on the Government ' s overall record on keep the public safe . the measure in the Bill on whole life order and the sentencing of serious sex offender be absolutely right and welcome . that be what the public expect , and it be right for public protection . the more time such offender stay in prison , the well all round for public safety and protection . with the expectation that some offender will spend all their sentence behind bar , I would like some assurance from the Government during the progress of the Bill and when the Minister wind up today , on how we will ensure that the court still impose lengthy sentence on those offender . the message about public protection be crucial . with offender serve all their sentence in custody , court should not reduce the tariff to take account of that , and they must take into consideration the nature of the crime and the impact on the victim . sentence be there to ensure that offender receive their full sentence . I have concern about some provision in clause 6 on the " Duty to impose suspend sentence order for sentence of 12 month or less " . we have discuss the type of sentence , but as member know , an offender must already pass considerable threshold before they be sentence to immediate custody . criminal have to commit certain and serious crime before judge and magistrate send they to prison . that be how the system work . in my time in Parliament , not only when I be in Government but as a Back - Bench MP , many case be bring to my attention of offender commit serious and multiple offence , and yet avoid custody . from the victim ' s perspective , that be unjust . victim see the system fail they , leave other susceptible to such crime as well . in fact , come back to the point about transparency , many victim simply do not know that their offender have be catch until they read about the nature of the offence , or the sentence , when report in the news . that be simply not right or fair . I have also see statistic on people convict of sexual offence not get custodial sentence — sometimes lead to they reoffende . we must absolutely stop that . in one year , something like 43 % of people convict of sexual offence do not receive an immediate custodial sentence . figure I receive back in 2018 , for between 2007 and 2017 , show that 13 , 000 convict rapist and sex offender be not sentence to serve immediate custody . that be shocking in its own right , and even the law and measure that have come into force since do not address public concern . however the Bill develop with any amendment , our job be to address public concern , and give people confidence that the system be work for they . we need to ensure that offender , such as sex offender who have commit some of the most egregious and appalling offence , include against child , be not just let off prison . they should not be free to be in the community ; they should receive the right type of sentence so that people be keep safe . that be a point I want to make strongly in this debate . member will also be aware of other concern that have be express to they or that they have hear in other debate , such as those about shoplifting . other such crime be have an impact on community . I be not just speak about antisocial behaviour ; I be speak about theft and criminality that blight community . all such criminality frustrate the public when they do not see offence pick up or case necessarily follow up by the police . that be not acceptable , and we must do more as a party and as a Government to create well public confidence in our criminal justice system . I give a plug to Essex police in particular , who do great work in that area — it be about work to give the public great confidence . the whole issue of rehabilitation in prison have be mention . personally , I feel that be one area where there could be much well cross - government work , whether with work and Pensions or Education . I have sit on various taskforce in Government where all such issue have be bring together to create an effective and integrated cross - Government approach . we must do more for those individual . it be simply not good enough for prisoner leave prison on a Friday afternoon and then go on to sofa surf . they do not have accommodation . we need the right approach in place to make sure that they can rebuild their life . as the Bill proceed through Parliament , we must do well on sentence outcome and on outcome for victim , as well as make sure that people do not go on to reoffend . as a state , we must deal with the institutional failure that have exist for too long to make sure that we can build well pathway for those individual while make sure that dangerous and persistent offender be send to prison and punish for the crime they commit . it be a product , I suppose , of live in an age infect with contagious liberalism that people in this place and elsewhere spend a lot of time speak about freedom . I care about freedom too . I care about freedom from disorder and about freedom from the fear and actuality of crime . I think it be Burke who say : " the only liberty that be valuable be a liberty connect to order " . disordered society be most terrible for those who live on the frontline of crime : those who have to cope with disorder ; those who do not live the gate life of the bourgeois liberal elite . I approach the Bill with that in mind . be the repercussion of the Bill likely to lead to a more ordered society , likely to protect people who might otherwise become victim of crime ? there be much to welcome . the first part of the Bill deal with serious crime and the sentence it attract . I be pleased by the further development of long sentence for people who do terrible , wicked thing . there be a caveat , because as you will know , Mr Deputy Speaker , the Home Secretary have always have the power to intervene personally and become involved where he or she believe that a sentence need to be review or extend , and have do so on a number of occasion to make sure that someone who might otherwise be release stay in prison . will the Minister say whether that power will be curtail or affect by the measure in the Bill ? will the Home Secretary still be able to intervene on those rare occasion on which they feel it be right to do so ? that be the good bit of the Bill — the part that deal with those serious crime in the way I have describe . much of the rest of the Bill be lamentable . I be not go to vote against Second Reading because I think it provide an opportunity for further scrutiny and consideration . however , I be disturb by the idea of turn all sentence of 12 month or less into suspend sentence . that be not quite what the Bill do , but it be its essence . let I explain why . criminal justice have three primary purpose . the first be retributive . let we be clear about that — the first principle of criminal justice be to punish people for a harm that they have do . that might be a terribly unfashionable thing to say , but it be what the majority of people in South Holland and the deeping think , as well as the majority of people in Witham , Grimsby and even Bromley and Chislehurst . I will return to my hon . friend the Member for Bromley and Chislehurst ( Sir Robert Neill ) — for I know Bromley and Chislehurst rather well , as I suspect he know . if that be the first purpose of criminal justice , do the Bill aid that purpose ? to answer that question we have to consider this : be it more of a punishment to lose your liberty — to be incarcerate — or more of a punishment not to ? be it more of a punishment to be deprive of the opportunity to do all the thing that you choose to do , or be it more of a punishment not to be ? I have to say that in my view — and it be not just my view ; it have be the view of almost every society in every civilisation over all of time — the principal way of punish people be to incarcerate they , to deprive they of their ability to behave in the way they want , freely and openly . my right hon . friend be make a powerful point with which I substantially agree , but do he accept that with the rise of technology , there be many different way of deprive people of their liberty ? if we can come up with way of deprive they of their liberty that also make it less likely that they will reoffend at the end of their sentence , do that not serve a dual purpose , be both the absolutely right moral judgment as a punishment and a way of reduce the number of future victim who will subsequently need to be serve by the criminal justice system ? that be a plausible argument , except that have a tag on your ankle be not a deprivation of liberty in quite the same way as be in prison . be able to go on eat fast food , watch telly and do all the other thing that you might do at home be not quite as much of a deprivation , be it ? moreover , we have hear this so often before . it be true that technology have move on and the tag be of a rather different kind , thank to the work that be refer to early , but when tag be first introduce we be tell that the technology be such — these thing be so secure — that no one would be able to evade their application or use , only to find that all that be want . my hon . friend will therefore forgive I for a certain degree of scepticism — not cynicism . I be cynical about nothing . however , I be sceptical about this . the second principle of criminal justice be to provide respite for those who have be victim of crime , and other who might be , by take people off the street . that be to put the victim and other out of harm ' s way by remove the harm — literally take the harm beyond their purview — which be what prison do . it may be that if these tag work perfectly — if these people be constrain in the way suggest by the Secretary of State and my hon . friend — I suppose the victim may be protect anyway ; but I suspect that people in my constituency and elsewhere who have be victim of some of the crime concern would say , " I want these people to be as far away from I as possible , and as far away as possible from my child , my home and my community . I do not want to know these people or see they daily , because they have do harm witness by those who live in my locality . " the third principle of criminal justice be that once you have catch someone , convict they and sentence they , you might take step to prevent they from commit crime again . of course I understand that . there have be a long - stand debate between those on the retributionist side of the argument , like I , and those on the rehabilitationist side of the argument , like my hon . friend the Member for Bromley and Chislehurst , who believe that crime be essentially an ill to be treat , and that the circumstance of the criminal — those be my hon . friend ' s word — be more important than the event of the crime . will my right hon . friend give way ? now we will hear some more about the circumstance of the criminal . I hope that my right hon . friend will gently withdraw the incorrect attribution . what I say be that , as part of the balance exercise , the sentencer must take into account both the nature of the offence and the circumstance of the offender , which be wholly different . my hon . friend do indeed say that , and it be the argument that I have hear repeatedly over decade — that if only we could understand more about the circumstance of the offender , we could dig down to why they end up like this , and perhaps we could make the world a well place . it be a lovely idea and we can see the sentiment that drive it , which be probably quite noble in many way . frankly , however , these be the argument that have permeate the debate since the Children and Young Persons Act 1969 — my hon . friend will remember that , but it be before my time — when intermediate treatment order be introduce . remember those ? the Government then say that , because the circumstance of the offender be of such concern — because these people have have such shabby and difficult life — they would impose an intermediate treatment order , which be a community sentence in the modern idiom . so young thug , vandal and villain be send off on holiday in the Brecon Beacons and such place , while their contemporary who be law - abide and just as poorly off — working - class fellow who have do nothing wrong — be lucky if they get a weekend at Margate . that be the kind of think that , unfortunately , have punctuate the debate on criminal justice for far too long . crime be not an illness to be treat ; it be a malevolent choice to be punish , and that be what the public expect . in the paper on this subject by my hon . friend the Member for Bromley and Chislehurst , to which he draw the House ' s attention a few moment ago , he make this very clear on page 33 : " Lord Burnett of Maldon , Lord Chief Justice between 2017 and 2023 , speak in December 2020 , say : ' to my mind , there have be a perceptible hardening of the public and political attitude to crime , particularly sexual and violent offending , which have result in a general shift in the balance between culpability and harm when determine sentence . ' " in other word , to put it in a nutshell , people want those who do harm , damage life and spoil other ' chance to be treat more severely , not less severely . frankly , I do not think the Bill meet that test . I do not think that the emphasis on recidivism at the heart of this Bill — as I have say , it be understandable and perhaps even noble — will be welcome by the vast majority of people , whose position have harden in precisely the way my hon . friend ' s Committee ' s report suggest . my perspective on the people who commit these crime be as follow . let we look at what crime most commonly attract sentence of 12 month or less . the most common be theft from shop . we have an explosion in shoplifting , as have be highlight by member on both side of the House . it be something we should take seriously and act upon . that be about 13 % of short sentence . then there be common assault and battery . yes , I agree that it be not grievous bodily harm , as the Secretary of State rightly say , but I suspect most people would feel that common assault and battery should result in a custodial sentence . that is 9 % of sentence of 12 month or less . then there be assault of an emergency worker . can we think of anything more appalling than that — a fireman or ambulance crew turn up at an emergency and be assault by someone ? my goodness ! that be about 3 % . breach a restraining order be 7 % and possession of an article with a blade or point — in other word , a knife — be 6 % . that be the list of sentence that most commonly attract 12 month or less in prison , which be the kind that be now to be suspend . this proposal neither pass the test necessary to fulfil the key function of the criminal justice system , nor pass the still more fundamental test of be likely to restore — I say " restore " rather than " maintain " , because I think it be a matter of restoration — public confidence in law and order . if we want once again , as we should in this place , to reflect and give life to public sentiment , frankly , this Bill will have to be amend very significantly indeed . Disraeli say that " justice be truth in action . " — [ Official Report , 11 February 1851 ; Vol . 114 , c . 412 . ] my hon . friend the Member for Bromley and Chislehurst be a deductive thinker : he like to look at the evidence and deduce an outcome . I be more of an inductive thinker : I believe in argue from first principle , so the truth really matter to I . on that basis , I say to Ministers , " let we amend this Bill . let we take the good part of it , and change those thing that will not pass either of the test I have set out . " I therefore reserve my right to oppose it on Third Reading , but know this new Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Orpington ( Gareth Bacon ) , and know our excellent Secretary of State , I rather suspect that they have hear those argument and take careful note of they — for I know too that they be the kind of politician who want to do the right thing , rather than the easy thing . I rise to support the Bill . if the House will indulge I , I will quote the great Sir Winston Churchill , who , when he be Home Secretary , say in this House in July 1910 : " I shall certainly be very glad to be able to announce … the first real principle which should guide anyone try to establish a good system of prison should be to prevent as many people as possible get there at all . " — [ Official Report , 20 July 1910 ; Vol . 19 , c . 1344 . ] of course , we know that he also recognise the need for punishment in the criminal justice system . notwithstanding that , he emphasise that the punishment should fit the crime , which be the direction in which this Bill go . in that famous speech in 1910 , Churchill also say : " a calm and dispassionate recognition of the right of the accuse against the State , and even of convict criminal against the State , a constant heart - search by all charge with the duty of punishment , a desire and eagerness to rehabilitate in the world of industry all those who have pay their due in the hard coinage of punishment , tireless effort towards the discovery of curative and regenerating process , and an unfaltere faith that there be a treasure , if you can only find it , in the heart of every man — these be the symbol which in the treatment of crime and criminal mark and measure the store - up strength of a nation , and be the sign and proof of the live virtue in it . " — [ Official Report , 20 July 1910 ; Vol . 19 , c . 1354 . ] the language be rather edwardian , but what he be say , of course , be that how a nation treat its criminal — its prisoner — be indicative of the measure of that nation . those of we who have be in the criminal justice system for so many year want to ensure that punishment fit the crime , but also to ensure justice for all . the Bill put public protection at the heart of sentencing : for the bad murderer , the only proper penalty be life imprisonment without the possibility of release by the Parole Board . I note that whole - life order will be the default sentence for any murder involve sexual or sadistic conduct . when I be Attorney General , one of the case in which I appear personally before the Court of Appeal involve an application in part to see if a whole - life order be possible , even for something less than murder — it be a case of multiple rape . that application turn out not to be successful , but I give that as an example of why I approve of the process in the Bill whereby those person who commit heinous sexual or sadistic murder should receive whole - life sentence . I note that under the suspension provision of the Bill , judge will have the discretion to impose immediate custody in other type of case under 12 month , and that those offender who pose a risk of harm to a particular individual — for example , in domestic abuse and stalking case — will rightly be exclude from the presumption . there may be further consideration of this matter in Committee . I can not help but draw attention to the fact that at the moment , a very large number of racially aggravate offence be take place around the country , antisemitic incident in particular . that may be something that minister wish to consider far . the reality be that the Bill can attract support across the board , although I be not sure about the position of many Opposition Members . after all , some 70 Labour mp sign a letter to stop a deportation flight to Jamaica contain up to 50 foreign offender . it be right that we bear in mind that the general public expect criminal to be punish accord to the offence that they have commit . all sexual and serious violent offender should be and will be exclude from the scheme — something of which we can all approve . as a Government , we be currently oversee the large expansion to the prison estate for many year , build six new prison . no one can say that we be not tough on crime . we have create 20 , 000 prison place , over 5 , 000 of which be already active , and we have provide £ 400 million for more prison place . it be right that we need more prison place , so I support that . it be worth note in this context that crime be down 50 % across the board and that there be 20 , 000 more police officer . in short , Mr Deputy Speaker , the Bill have my support . I strongly welcome many aspect of the Bill , particularly the whole - life order . they would have completely change the treatment of Colin Pitchfork , who be widely remember by my constituent for the rape and murder of two child . the reform in the Bill will ensure that such people never see daylight again , and quite rightly too . I strongly support the measure in the Bill to toughen up on sexual offence . they be long overdue and reflect the public mood to which my right hon . friend the Member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) refer . the reform in the Bill build on successive wave of reform over recent year , include the very welcome move to end early release at the halfway point . there be much to welcome in the Bill , and I admire much of the work of our brilliant and learn Lord Chancellor , one of the most learned people to have occupy that role . however , there be one aspect of the Bill with which I have a serious problem . I will , of course , vote with the Government this evening — I have always vote with the Government to date , and I hope that I never find myself do anything other than that . the issue that I be concerned about be the presumption against sentence of a year or less . there be a pragmatic argument that I be ready to hear on this measure , which say that we must do this simply because we need the place . the argument that I can not accept be that this can make the public safe . let I walk hon . member through the logic . the Ministry of Justice have conduct a study and have match different offender into two cohort . they be like - for - like : people with a similar background who have do similar thing . the claim that there be 4 % less offending come from look at those two cohort : those who have have a sentence of less than 12 month in prison and those who have have a suspend sentence . it be claim that there be 4 % more offending from those who have have the prison sentence . however , that look at one year from the start of the suspend sentence , but from the end of the prison sentence . if we take an offender who have a one - year prison sentence and if , instead of look at it from the end of that year , we look at it from the start , the comparison be with someone who can not harm the public because they be in prison . therefore , instead of compare the 75 . 6 % reoffende rate after those offender leave jail with the 71 . 5 % reoffende rate from the start of community sentence , we should — I hear the promise of the Lord Chancellor that he would do this analysis for we , and that be very welcome — compare that 71 % reoffende rate of those on suspend sentence with the zero reoffende rate of those who be lock up for a whole year , or the much low rate of those who be lock up for part of the year . Most normal member of the public would think , " it be very surprising that we would be safe if people who commit serious crime be out there wander around in the community , rather than if they be in jail . " of course it be not intuitive because it be wrong . I be prepared to hear a pragmatic argument , but this junk analysis can not stand . it be utterly bogus and an abuse of the statistic . it be unbelievably unacceptable . I be ready to hear a pragmatic argument about prison place . as my right hon . friend the Member for South Holland and the Deepings ( Sir John Hayes ) say , sentence of less than one year be not for trivial offence . these day , a person have to go some distance to get send to jail . many of those offender , as my hon . friend the Member for Bury North ( James Daly ) say , will have have many previous caution , suspend sentence and community sentence . in a publish paper on super - prolific offender that I write a few year back , I lay out the staggering number of community sentence and suspend sentence . People be get their 50th and 51st community sentence . this be soft justice , and it do not work . it be a danger to the public . sometimes a short prison sentence be the right thing . to rehearse what these people have do : 17 % be in prison for violence against the person , 2 % for sexual offence , 2 % for robbery , 20 % for theft , 9 % for drug offence , 7 % for possession of weapon and 9 % for public order offence . these be really serious crime , and the public do not think we be be too harsh ; they think we be be too soft . let we put the saving on jail place — the one argument for this that I can accept — into context . short sentence be absolutely not drive the upward pressure on prison place , quite the reverse . the proportion of people in jail on a tariff of one year or less have fall from 13 % in 2008 to just 6 % now . it have halve , so the increase number of people not get short sentence have be drive down the prison population . the estimate in the Government ' s impact assessment be that this measure will save , in the central scenario , 600 prison place . let we compare that with some of the other factor in play . since 2019 , the number of people on remand have rise by about 6 , 600 prison place , which be 10 or 11 time large than the saving we be make , and that be because of delay in the court . I hope we will look at that again . to put it in further context , the number of foreign national offender in our jail — foreign national offender comprise about one in eight of all the people in our jail — have rise by about 1 , 200 prison place since 2019 , which be twice as large as the saving we be make through this measure . in fact , the saving of 600 prison place be much small than the 1 , 900 additional place that the Ministry of Justice brilliantly create between last autumn and this summer through thing like the rapid deployment cell . if we look at it in that context , it can not be impossible for we to find a well alternative to this measure . I understand that there be exemption , and that those on order will not be subject to this measure , but the problem be that many people with many previous conviction be not on an order . by read between the line of the Lord Chancellor ' s statement , I detect a willingness to look at this again for knife crime offence , and I hope we will have a much more wide - range review of the policy because , ultimately , I do not believe for one second that it can make the public safe , that it be what the public want or that there be no alternative . we have already show that we can move quickly to increase the number of prison place . we could look quite radically at thing like jury trial to speed up our court and the archaic practice that be cause the huge growth in remand that be drive we towards these decision . we could look again at what we can do with rapid deployment cell to get more capacity . I be happy to look at anything , whatever it take , but I do not believe this measure be at all desirable , even though it be part of a Bill that contain many thing that be desirable . I hope that the Lord Chancellor and the Government will look at this again and that , by Third Reading , we will have a well bill that every conservative Member can wholeheartedly and proudly support . there be part of this Bill that I be sure my constituent will welcome , include the strong sentence for serious criminal and the inability of people to be release early on parole , but there be area that my constituent and I have serious concern about , particularly with regard to the presumption of suspend sentence for crime that attract a sentence of 12 month or less . I be particularly concerned about home detention . the word " home " be not about detention . home be about home comfort ; it be about people be able to do what they want to do , whether they have a tag on or not . we know that repeat criminal , which most people who have home detention and home curfew be , have clever way of work the system . in Grimsby and place like Grimsby , somebody who have a tag will find a way , through coercive control , of get their partner to commit crime , or get criminal associate to come to their home so that they can carry on their criminal behaviour . I also have constituent whose child and grandchild have be coerce into commit criminal behaviour , because they be the one who do not have a criminal conviction — yet . quite often , those who be see as minor will not have anything serious do to they with regard to sentencing , and they be be encourage , either through payment or perhaps a lack of violence , to continue the criminal activity . I be particularly concerned about some of the example that have be give , and I be grateful to the Lord Chancellor for speak to I about this yesterday . yes , if somebody work hard for a living and they have make some mistake and need help , we do not want to prevent they from be able to live in their house or apartment . we do not want they to lose their job or to be unable to carry on positive , healthy relationship with people , but my concern be that people who be on benefit and who be not work in legal job will be able to be at home do pretty much whatever they want and work the system . my constituent would like to see those people do visible community service to pay back to their victim and repair what be go on in the community . we need it to be long - term : community service order of 200 hour be , frankly , derisory ; community payback sentence should be 1 , 200 hour . it should be a year long so that it be inconvenient and involve thing that people do not want to do . we also need to stop the merry - go - round , operationally , that follow legislation . People in Grimsby know that offender such as these often end up on a merry - go - round involve every state - fund service , but they do not take they seriously or do not take an active part in they , because they know that they do not have to . that cost the taxpayer huge amount of money , but this be about not just the monetary cost but the cost to the community . we have just pass the Victims and Prisoners Bill . what about the victim here ? my constituent want to see that somebody be be inconvenience and have to work hard to pay back . we have hear that people ' s circumstance can result in their become a criminal , but lot of people come from those same circumstance and do not make the choice to become criminal and it be about time we start think about they . we need to make it clear to people that criminal behaviour be unacceptable , and ensure that they go out and visibly do good activity , with people watch they and keep control of they . the reality be that if somebody be at home , they be on the internet , watch television , meet their criminal friend and laugh at the rest of we . what my hon . friend be talk about be stigma . there must be some stigma . Stigma be very unfashionable in the modern age — even to mention it be probably regard as politically incorrect — but we have to stigmatise people who do really bad thing among their contemporary . if we do not do that , they will carry on with impunity . my right hon . friend be , as always , absolutely spot on . we need to start have these kind of discussion . in my constituency of Great Grimsby , we have people who be repeat offender in aggressive retail crime who be get away without have to do anything positive to pay back society . colleague talk early about people who have a reading age equivalent of nine or 10 and who must improve their literacy . I have work in further education for over two decade , and what happen with state - fund organisation be that people will be tell , " go and see a person who will help you with mental health issue . go to a person who will help you with learn to read and write . go to the probation office to register where you be . " these people do not go there . they can not be control in any way , so it become extremely expensive and be a derisory way of use taxpayer ' money . I and my constituent want there to be no home detention so that people have to get up in the morning to go and do their community service . they should be see to be do it , and they have to be do it for the amount of time that they would have be inconvenience by be incarcerate through any other sentence . otherwise , it will not work . we will end up with an extremely expensive system where nothing work properly . instead of send people to go and improve their literacy , we should get they to work off their crime and learn how to read and how to interact with other professional people and what it mean to be socially positive in those situation . they should not be sit in pretend classroom for hour and hour not do anything . we know that positive work and have positive role model in society be what will turn people round , but the propose approach to sentencing will end up be an extremely expensive way for people to play the system and continue the merry - go - round . I would like the Lord Chancellor and the Front - Bench team to think seriously about what the majority of people in our community would like to see . I will concentrate in my speech on two issue : first , sentencing ; and secondly , suggestion to stop reoffende , particularly among the young . this be not a catch - all but just an idea , which could come with other idea . I welcome the part of the Bill that will ensure those who pose the great danger to society will be lock up and off our street . the end of the automatic 50 % remission for those who commit heinous crime be also to be welcome , but why do this not apply to everyone ? if someone be sentence by a judge to a term , it should be serve in full . surely we want prison to be a deterrent , so let those convict of a crime out halfway through their sentence make no sense , nor be it a deterrent . we have a crisis in our prison , exacerbate by the fact that there be not enough prison place , and magistrate and judge have to consider carefully whether to send those who commit less crime — although such crime be not less to those who be affect — to prison or to give they a suspend sentence , a community order , a tag or perhaps all three . as have be say succinctly by at least two colleague tonight , a repeat shoplifter , for example , can not go on steal while they be in prison . I be very concerned about the presumption against prison for those sentence to less than 12 month for many reason , not least the pressure on the probation service , which do a wonderful job . frankly , I do not like statistic , and I guarantee that the victim of crime , however great or small , will feel differently about that presumption . I recall as journalist cover a story about an old lady who have be rob . she be age 80 and have be marry for 60 year . her husband have die , and a burglar take all her belonging out of her house . she die of a broken heart a month later . only recently , to much sneer from those on the Opposition Benches , I advocate national service for those who need a hand up . this be an example of where a 50 % measure could be use . a young person serve a sentence of , say , three or four year , if behave properly , could be offer , at the halfway point , two more year in jail or two year in the armed force . I train young man myself for two year , and it be surprising how easy it be to turn the often rudderless into fine young soldier who we be proud to serve with — and , if necessary , die with . in many case , the family unit be so broken that the state should step in — a move that I , as a Conservative , instinctively disagree with unless the circumstance be exceptional . nowadays , I feel that they be in some case . for many of our struggle young , all they need to turn they into law - abide citizen — I have see it — be leadership , discipline and a structure to operate in . this be not rocket science . in 1994 , the Airborne Initiative be launch in Lanarkshire , Scotland . for 10 year , specialist social worker and outdoor recreation expert take hundred of male criminal age between 18 and 25 and combined outdoor physical activity with counselling for youth who have not respond to conventional punishment and rehabilitation . a former colleague in this place , Sir Jim Spicer , bring the initiative to the former young offender prison on Portland . I recently open a new jail museum there , and when I interview all the old prison officer , they all say that the borstal system work . in some case , it be abuse by rotten officer , but , in the most part , it be prove to work . the young people be give the discipline and the structure , and they do not come back . sadly , the successful Airborne project — a five - day residential course on Dartmoor — be stop . I believe that it go to HMP Feltham , where I be not sure if it still run . that simple initiative work , and the Government would do well to expand the project , particularly for young people across the prison estate and those who have commit less crime , to give they a chance to learn how to get on with other in challenge and all the other thing that outdoor activity provide , just as part of their rehabilitation . I wish it be not true , but we , the conservative party , should not be in the position we find ourselves in . if we can not keep our citizen safe from those who would do we harm , something have go seriously wrong . for the public , there be probably two thing that matter most when an offence be commit against they : whether the criminal be catch and , if they be , what sentence they get . thank to the Government ' s substantial investment in police , we now have almost 21 , 000 more police officer than in 2019 , with close to 800 of those in my local force , Thames Valley . it be of course relatively easy to see the impact of those extra officer , but perhaps less straightforward to appreciate change in sentencing policy . the Bill add some welcome clarity to sentence , especially for the most serious crime , which will help to increase confidence in sentencing . I should point out that prior to my election to this place I spend 12 year as a magistrate . in that time , I sentence many offender , impose everything from a discharge to a custodial sentence . I also have the privilege of serve for approximately 18 month on the Sentencing Council . those experience teach I one crucial thing : sentencing be an art , not a science . it be imperative that all the fact and circumstance of every case be consider in their own right . that can be do only by the judge or magistrate who have hear the detail of the individual case , and about not only the impact of the crime on its victim , but the reason why the offence be commit and the background of the offender , not as an excuse for their criminal behaviour but to try to prevent a repeat of that behaviour . as the Chair of the Justice Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Bromley and Chislehurst ( Sir Robert Neill ) , outline , there be five purpose of sentencing , which be set down in statute . I fear that too often we focus only on the first of those : punishment . although that must absolutely be a very significant element of a sentence , I suggest that it can not , in a civilised society , be the only one . I believe that in order for we to see less crime and far few victim , reform and rehabilitation be crucial . there will be some case in which that be almost impossible , but in the majority of case there be hope — there be the prospect of an offender turn their life around , live a life free of crime and make a positive contribution to society . I be also previously a member of the independent monitoring board at HMP / YOI Feltham , a member of the Youth Justice Board and a non - executive director of what be then her Majesty ' s Prison and Probation Service . what all that mean be that I have be into many , many prison over the past 18 year . in every single one of they , I have be impress by the brilliant staff and the amazing effort that they make day in , day out , both to protect the public and to reform the life of their inmate . but I have also be acutely aware that , quite simply , prison be often not the ideal place to achieve rehabilitation . there be many reason for that , but among they be the fact that there be often a shortage of appropriate staff to provide training and new skill , or simply that a programme that an individual prisoner need be not available in their particular prison . that be especially the case with short custodial sentence . for those reason , I welcome the Bill ' s shift to a presumption to suspend custodial sentence of 12 month or less . let we be absolutely clear : a suspend sentence be still a punishment . it will invariably contain condition and requirement . it be simply inaccurate for the tabloid newspaper to claim , as they so often do , that someone have walk free from court with a suspend sentence , as if there have be absolutely no consequence for the crime . that simply be not the case . let we also remember that any suspend sentence can be activate . the offender can be send to prison immediately if they commit a further offence while serve their suspend sentence or , indeed , if they breach the condition or the requirement attach to the suspend sentence order . there be , then , the absolute safeguard that , where necessary , somebody can be send into custody . in fact , I worry slightly about whether the ability to do that might ultimately end up undermine the intent of the Bill . if we find that , in fact , an awful lot of suspend sentence be activate , Ministers may at that point need to think about how to address that problem . I be pleased to see that the Bill extend the use of home detention curfew for those serve sentence of four year or more . in my very short time as a Minister in the Ministry of Justice , I ask official to look into that . I be glad that it have be follow through and be now in the Bill , because HDC can be incredibly useful in ease the transition from custody to life back in the community . the simple reality be that the long somebody have spend in prison , the more they need that period of transition , so the extension of eligibility be sensible . I should also point out that it will , of course , be necessary to ensure that the probation service be properly resource to support the additional offender who will be serve their sentence in the community . probation staff do an outstanding job , as I have see for myself on many occasion . we must make sure that there be enough of they and that they have all they need to do an effective job in help to reduce crime . although the increase emphasis on suspend sentence and an expansion of HDC be welcome step , we could be even more innovative in our approach to sentencing . for example , we could use technology much well , with far more comprehensive use of GPS tag for the right offender . I work with the Centre for Social Justice to devise a new sentence call the intensive control and rehabilitation order , and I invite Ministers to peruse that at some point . I have a couple of concern about one or two aspect of the Bill , particularly the impact on young adult of the decision to make whole - life order the starting point for certain offence . it be now widely accept , include by the Ministry of Justice , that maturity be a process that continue until at least the early 20 . that have not yet be completely reflect in the criminal justice system and we need to do more work on it , especially on sentencing . that aside , I believe there be much to welcome in the Bill . it clearly demonstrate that the Conservative Government be determined to tackle crime and provide the most appropriate sentence for offender . I look forward to its rapid passage on to the statute book . I find the wording of the Bill quite curious . I will limit my remark to issue relate to suspend sentence under 12 month . the sentencing code be amend to add : " the court must make a suspend sentence order in relation to the sentence where this section apply unless the court be of the opinion that there be exceptional circumstance " . as a lawyer , I know that if we have 10 , 000 lawyer here , they would give we 10 , 000 different definition of what " exceptional circumstance " mean . but the court can take into account those that " relate to the offence ( or the combination of the offence and one or more offence associate with it ) or the offender " — so , if a court find a fact about the offender or the offence that fall within the general definition of exceptional circumstance , it can impose an immediate custodial sentence — and " justify not make the order . " I hate to break it to colleague , but that be actually what happen in the court now ; there be very little difference . this be an attempt , rightly or wrongly , to encourage some magistrate in some part of the country to impose few immediate custodial term . the Bill will not stop custodial sentence be impose for offence under 12 month . as I say in my intervention on the Lord Chancellor , it would be utterly bizarre if that be the case . over 17 year , I represent thousand of people in the criminal court and the vast majority of case be drug and shoplifting relate . I represent people with 400 or 500 conviction — the full gamut of offending — who never comply with an order in their life and literally have hundred of failure to comply with court order . what magistrate in the world be go to think , " I know what we ' ll do , we ' ll impose a suspend sentence " ? if a characteristic of the offender be that they do not carry out the order impose on they , the magistrate be not go to impose it in the first place . if there be something particularly abhorrent about an offence — this be why I have some sympathy with what those on the Opposition Front Bench be say — there will be an immediate custodial term . what I do not like be the debate that we should treat some crime differently from other . yes , there be a full range of seriousness in term of offend , but if we be get to the point where we be say that for some you can get an immediate custodial term and for other you can not , then I think that be nonsense . we have to be realistic . when we be deal with people in the criminal justice system , we be deal with broken , fallible individual . as my hon . friend the Member for Aylesbury ( Rob Butler ) say , we be deal with people and their life and motivation , and all the other thing that go into make they , at a certain time and point , commit a criminal offence . in this Chamber , we never , ever discuss what , in my opinion , could deter crime : work when child be grow up , a stable upbringing , and a set of value that they can carry with they through their life , whether through education or parent , of whatever type . that be what matter . have a debate and judge whether we as a Parliament be successful on criminal justice by how long we send people to prison be utterly preposterous . what be the point in that ? it be like we discuss money in this place : " we ' ll send you to prison for 15 year . " " no , let ' s go to 16 or 17 year . " that be not the point . the point be to allow our independent judiciary , within the sentencing framework we set down — bear in mind that none of we will be in that court , none of we will know what motivate the person and none of we will know the circumstance — to make the decision that they want to make . my hon . friend the Member for Harborough ( Neil o ' Brien ) make some very tell point . we can not run away from the fact that this legislation be about prison number . however , it be fair to say — I repeat something that have be say — short - term custodial sentence be decrease . one thing I be proud of be that under this government long - term sentence of 10 - plus year for the most serious offence be increase . we be have an impact on the most serious offending . do my hon . friend agree that the issue be that non - custodial sentence be , frankly , often pathetic ? they be not inconvenient enough , or do not make such a change for people that they be deter , without custody , from offend . I agree . we can not have a debate about criminal justice simply on the basis that everyone should be send to prison ; there have to be some form of alternative sentence . my experience over 17 year , however , be that none of it work — little or none of it — because this be about the individual . I have not meet an individual — unless they be suffer from severe mental health problem — who do not know what they need to do with their life to be a well person or to not commit crime , whether that be to stop take drug or drink alcohol , or whatever it be . the vast majority of people who appear in court be not demente fool ; they be intelligent , articulate people who be choose not to make the correct decision that could put their life on a more even footing . the range of sentencing option , such as a curfew , or all the type of modern technology we talk about , be nonsense . they will not make a blind bit of difference to anyone ' s behaviour . the point I be make be that the criminal justice system be , by its very nature , fallible . it will never be efficient or give we the outcome that we want . the idea that any MP in this place could set up a structure that will deal fairly with every offender that appear before the court be absolutely for the bird . my view be that the Bill do not make much difference to the position we be in . it be not something that colleague should get overly concerned about , because have spend 17 year in front of magistrate , I can tell the House that they will still send people to prison on the basis of this Bill . a few people might well get a chance , with a curfew or something like that , but they will breach it in five minute and will be send to prison . under the Bill , someone be forgive for the first breach , but they go to prison for the second breach . whatever happen , they will go to prison at some point , because most of they breach the order that be impose in the first place . I support the Bill because I support — be my hon . friend say that the Bill be inconsequential ? if it be inconsequential , why do we need it ? the Bill be either as bad as I think it be , or it be as harmless as he think it be . either way , we do not want it . frankly , it allow our independent judiciary and magistrate , sit throughout the country , to make decision base on the individual circumstance of the case . I think it still allow they to impose an immediate custodial sentence in the vast majority of circumstance . I have read out the legal test , which can be apply any which way we want . do my hon . friend agree that it would be wrong to steer our independent judiciary away from this ? many people in the judiciary complain like mad if we suggest high sentence or great automaticity . they say , " no , we must have judicial freedom and independence . " should we not be give they the same for short sentence ? also , do he agree that sometimes a short prison sentence — say , a year — can give a community great respite from an individual who often cause huge terror and misery in that community ? I agree . that be why such sentence exist and have be use for the past 30 , 40 or 50 year . since the ' 90 onwards , prison sentence have go up on a steep curve , but what can we do if someone shoplift repeatedly ? this be the other fantasy about people in the grip of drug addiction who be shoplifter . there be a common sense approach : " let ' s put in place a rehabilitative order . " but they be not in any position to apply for that rehabilitative order . if we let that person out of custody , they will commit a criminal offence . the Minister want to wind up , so I will bring my remark to a close . the only point I be try to make be that , for I , the legal test that go along with the suspension allow the court in 99 % of case to still impose the sentence they think be appropriate . I will try to be brief , and will pass quickly over clause 1 of the Bill , other than to welcome it . it deliver on our manifesto commitment to have tough sentence for the most serious crime . also , it finally deliver on the contract that be strike with the british people back in 1965 — when capital punishment be repeal , the quid pro quo be life imprisonment . that , however , have never be the case — life imprisonment for serious murder — so the whole life order deliver on that original contract . I welcome the clause for that reason alone . I move on to clause 6 , which much of this interesting debate have be about . it be absolutely right to say that there be a balance of compete force . the criminal justice system have to balance punishment with the reduction of reoffende . I absolutely agree with my right hon . friend the Member for South Holland and the Deepings ( Sir John Hayes ) that there be a moral perspective to punishment : society expect that people who commit crime will receive punishment and want they to see the physical consequence of crime . my hon . friend the Member for Harborough ( Neil o ' Brien ) be right , too , that when a perpetrator be behind bar , a community experience physical relief , and that be a common good . but — and it be a big " but " — those benefit have to be balance with system that lead to a reduction in future reoffende . although we have be argue a little about the detail behind the evidence , the overwhelming weight of the evidence that I have see be that short - term prison sentence do not lead to reduction in reoffende — in fact , quite the opposite . although there be benefit to prison sentence , and I have name a couple , there be cost as well . one be that we perhaps turn a small - scale offender into a much more detailed offender because they will meet and mix with the wrong kind of people , and lose their job , home and relationship — all the bind element of community membership . when they come out , they be statistically more likely to reoffend . that be a cost of prison , and we should not shy away from that . we should recognise it . I have look up the datum about the effectiveness of sentence option on reoffende from the Sentencing Council , an arm ' s length organisation , which say : " the evidence strongly suggest that short custodial sentence under twelve month be less effective than other disposal at reduce re - offending . there be little evidence demonstrate any significant benefit of such sentence . indeed , there be a reasonable body of evidence to suggest short custodial sentence can make negative outcome ( such as reoffende ) bad . " will my hon . friend give way ? I will not . I be so sorry , but I have only a couple of minute . the quote get to the nub of the matter . I be a deductive reasoner ; my right hon . friend the Member for South Holland and the Deepings , who be no long in his place , say that he be an inductive reasoner . just because someone be an inductive reasoner do not mean that they no long look at the datum . we need to do both . it be because I have be look at the datum that I support the Bill . I will be relatively brief . as a member of the magistracy who spend time sentencing — in fact , I be sentence last week on a whole range of issue that come before the merseyside bench — I be acutely aware that the british public , include my constituent , want to ensure that the criminal justice system be fair and proportionate and fair to victim as a principal concern . today we be debate a Bill that will strengthen those principle by make sure that the most serious offender receive tough sentence that reflect the severity of their crime . the Bill will remove from society those who pose the great danger to the public while also reduce the rate of reoffende by low - risk criminal . too often , I see familiar face in the courtroom and I want the Government to do much more to take step to break the cycle of reoffende . that be not just a matter for the criminal justice system ; it be for every part of the Government , in particular the Departments for Work and Pensions and for Education . we can do much more to break the cycle . the Bill introduce a presumption that sentence under 12 month will be suspend , punish and rehabilitate offender by use technology to deliver and enforce tough curfew and work in the community , where they can begin to repay their debt to society . of all the announce measure , the presumption against an immediate short - term custodial sentence in favour of a suspend sentence or community order be particularly relevant in magistrate court . as my hon . friend the Member for Broadland ( Jerome Mayhew ) say just a moment ago , that be essentially the approach that we already take in the magistrate court , where , even if the custody threshold for an offence be exceed , the practice be for magistrate to consider in the first instance whether a suspend sentence or community order would be far more appropriate . magistrate consider a range of fact and sentencing , and they do not sentence in an isolated form . the first thing they do be look at the antecedent of the criminal before they . if that criminal have a long list of previous conviction , they be more likely to go back to prison because that be the way magistrate operate in their court . magistrate follow very detailed sentencing guideline . they work tirelessly to ensure that there be consistency across all court and to consider the statutory aggravating and mitigate factor , and they look carefully to ensure that the punishment fit the crime . however , it be important that magistrate retain the discretion for immediate custody if neither a suspend sentence nor a community order be suitable . I know that my right hon . and learn Friend the Lord Chancellor be aware of that . I will conclude by touch on two other brief point . first , on prison capacity , I recognise the importance of extend the prison estate , and the Minister have very kindly notify I that Thorn Cross Prison in my constituency be likely to see an increase of 76 prisoner as a result of the increase use of rapid deployment cell once plan permission have be grant . can the Minister confirm that an appropriate increase in staffing will follow ? that prison have have significant issue with drug be deliver into it . when the Lord Chancellor be prison Minister , he spend time meet my constituent to consider that particular area . can the Department confirm that the relevant experienced prison officer will come alongside the additional prisoner ? can the Minister also confirm that there will be no change in the type of prisoner that be hold there ? there have be discussion about hold sex offender who be come to the end of their sentence , but it be then decide that that would not happen . the prison be in very close proximity to a school , so I would be very grateful if the Minister ensure that that do not happen . I welcome the provision in the Bill , which will put public protection at the heart of sentencing . the Government be take an evidence - base , long - term approach to sentencing to ensure that we be tough on violent crime , commit to reduce reoffende , and do what be need to keep the public safe . I call the Opposition Front Bencher . we have have a good debate on the Bill , start by the Lord Chancellor and Secretary of State for Justice , the right hon . and learn Member for Cheltenham ( Alex Chalk ) , and the shadow Secretary of State , my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham , Ladywood ( Shabana Mahmood ) . there have be a number of interesting contribution , start with the Chair of the Justice Committee , the hon . member for Bromley and Chislehurst ( Sir Robert Neill ) , who make a typically thoughtful contribution to our proceeding . he be against politicise the issue of sentencing , but I be sure that he would agree that that do not mean that his Majesty ' s loyal opposition should not scrutinise the Bill in depth , or look in detail , as we intend to do in Committee , at the matter of early release of offender involve in crime such as domestic abuse and sexual offence . he accept , I think , that the prison estate have be allow to deteriorate so far that , in its current state , rehabilitation have , in his word , become almost " impossible " . his suggestion of a statutory " purpose of prison " definition be an interesting one that we in the opposition would certainly be interested in discuss with he far . that be follow by a speech from the former Home Secretary , the right hon . member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) , who I think also make an extremely thoughtful contribution to the debate . she agree on some point with my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham , Ladywood , and we would very much be interested in explore that far with she as the Bill progress , particularly the issue of which offender be list for early release . we then have a contribution from the right hon . member for South Holland and the Deepings ( Sir John Hayes ) — he and I be old joust partner from the day when he be on the Opposition Benches and I be on the other side — who describe the Bill as " lamentable " and say that he be in despair about it . he say that , when it come to crime and punishment , he be on the retribution side and be less committed to the rehabilitation side of the argument . I know that he be a big fan of poetry , so I be sure that he will recognise a bit of poetry if I quote it at he : " I never see a man who look with such a wistful eye upon that little tent of blue which prisoner call the sky " . prisoner go to prison as punishment , in our view , not for punishment . we might not see eye to eye with the right hon . gentleman on what he say but , as ever , it be an interesting and thoughtful contribution . we hear a contribution from the right hon . and learn Member for Northampton North ( Sir Michael Ellis ) , who quote Churchill extensively and say that the language be " a bit Edwardian " . I wasn ' t sure whether he point that out because it be a bit too modern for he . he go on to say that 20 , 000 prison place have be create . we challenge that . I will not go into it in great depth , but in our view it will be only 8 , 000 by 2025 in net term , which be 60 % short of the Government ' s plan . the hon . member for Harborough ( Neil o ' Brien ) be critical of the methodology the Government have use to justify the presumption of suspend sentence for under 12 month . he admit that people be spend too long on remand in prison , which be a source of a lot of problem in the prison estate . many of those people turn out to be not guilty at the end of the process . that be a particularly pernicious fact , and it be a result of the Government ' s failure to deal with the backlog in the court . the hon . member for Great Grimsby ( Lia Nici ) call for visible community service and express concern that taxpayer ' money be be waste on many of the current scheme because of the failure to operationalise they properly . minister will have hear her remark . the hon . member for South Dorset ( Richard Drax ) say that he be concern about the presumption of suspend sentence for under 12 month because of pressure on the probation service . he be right about that . if the probation service can not provide a full service to those who be allow out on early release , it be difficult to see how the measure will help to reduce crime . he call for the return of national service and borstal . we use to call they college of crime when I be grow up . he provide anecdotal evidence for their be an effective mean of deal with youth justice . I would be interested to see hard scientific evidence in that regard . in his very last remark , he say that something have go seriously wrong with our criminal justice system . the hon . member for Aylesbury ( Rob Butler ) make an extremely thoughtful contribution and tell we of his experience from 12 year as a magistrate and from serve on the Sentencing Council . he say that sentencing be an art , not a science . his expertise show in his contribution , which be interesting to listen to . he tell we about his short time as a Justice Minister . that might be the only example of a decision by the former Prime Minister , the right hon . member for South West Norfolk ( Elizabeth Truss ) , that should not have be reverse after her departure . give the quality of the hon . Gentleman ' s contribution , he be possibly the good ministerial appointment during her short tenure . the hon . member for Bury North ( James Daly ) — again , he bring great experience to the debate — say that he have sympathy with some of the point the opposition be make about short sentence and so on . I agree with he that we should focus on the early year . we use to say when we be in government , " tough on crime , tough on the cause of crime " . he be absolutely right — until we get into the weed of the cause of crime , we will never break the offend cycle . the hon . member for Broadland ( Jerome Mayhew ) say that the danger of short - term sentence be that they would turn small - scale offender into great offender . he cite evidence for that in his very effective contribution . the hon . member for Warrington South ( Andy Carter ) tell we of his experience as a magistrate and of the need to break the cycle of reoffende . he ask for reassurance that there will be additional prison officer in his local open prison when number be expand there , and he be quite right to do so . another day , another Department of Justice Bill before the House — or , as I call it , the Department of Justice delay . as our debate draw to a close , let we consider the gravity of the task at hand . this Bill be suppose to be rectify problem in our criminal justice system , which be beleaguer by overcrowded prison , an overstretched probation service and the dire consequence of the past 13 year of mismanagement . over those 13 year under the current Government , we have observe the unfolding of what can only be describe as a penal catastrophe . for over a decade , they have promise a robust and rigorous approach to law and order , but when it come to justice it be the evidence that matter , and the evidence be clear beyond reasonable doubt . we be assure that there would be 20 , 000 new prison place by the mid - 2020s , but as of today , less than half be on track to meet that deadline , and the totality of that pledge will not see fruition before 2030 . the prison estate be at 99 % capacity because the Government have fail time and again to act on warning about capacity and overcrowding , and now they be use this rush Bill as a stick plaster over a gape wound . the job be certainly not do : the situation have reach the desperate state where judge be compel to delay sentencing hearing for people on bail , leave convict criminal to roam our street . the Bill be not a proactive measure , but a reactive one — a response to a crisis that have be foretell and ignore . it seek to introduce a presumption that sentence of 12 month or less will be suspend ; as my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham , Ladywood say , that be something we will explore in great detail in Committee . I will not detain the House much long , because I know there be a statement to follow , but the Government ' s narrative be one of a pivot towards rehabilitation and community sentencing . however , the reality be a narrative of necessity . the Government ' s own impact assessment estimate an increase caseload of 1 , 700 to 6 , 800 case due to more suspend sentence , and at least 850 due to the expansion of the home detention curfew , yet there be no corresponding increase in support for the probation service , which be already on its knee . how can we expect a system to rehabilitate people when that system itself be in need of urgent repair ? the propose change to short sentence raise grave concern . no offence have be rule out of scope , regardless of their nature . that mean that even know stalker , sex offender and domestic abuser could be manage in the community , pose a risk to new and past victim alike — as my hon . friend the shadow Justice Secretary rightly point out , it could be new victim who be target by those offender . that be not what justice look like . my hon . friend mention case of violent offender who could avoid be lock up under this propose legislation . I will add another example : that of John Gallagher , who strangle his partner and punch she in the head several time . she be scream , think that she be go to die . he say to she , " if I can ' t have you , no one can , " before trap she in a bathroom overnight . this man receive a nine - month sentence ; under the propose legislation , thank to this Government , violent offender just like he could avoid prison . the Government have be quick to proclaim their commitment to protect the public from serious offender . they speak of extend whole - life order and ensure that those convict of the most serious crime serve their full sentence . those be measure that we can support , but beneath the veneer of the tough rhetoric , there be an inconvenient truth : the prison that be require to house those offender be not materialise . the Government have not just move the goalpost , but take they down entirely . in their place , we be be offer a vision of electronic monitoring and home detention curfew — a vision in which serious offender could be release up to six month early . the Government assure we that violent offender and those convict of sexual offence will be exclude , yet fail to provide clarity on what constitute " suitable " for release . the ambiguity surround this crucial definition be not just a matter of semantic ; it be a matter of public safety . what do it say about our commitment to victim and to public safety that those who have inflict great harm could be deem " suitable " for early release ? now we learn of the Government ' s scheme to release offender early on compassionate ground , but it be a policy shroud in secrecy , lack the scrutiny of this House . this clandestine approach to justice be unacceptable . the british public deserve transparency , especially on matter that will have a direct impact on their safety and wellbeing . let we not forget the Government ' s botched privatisation and subsequent renationalisation of the probation service , which have do nothing but exacerbate the problem in our justice system . Probation be in such a dire state that of the 31 inspection by HM inspectorate of probation since reunification in 2021 , only one have receive a good rating . that be a damn indictment of the current Government ' s ability to protect the public and rehabilitate offender . the Labour party offer a different path — one of strategic foresight , and one that ensure that decision about the running of prison and probation service be drive by public safety , not political expediency . we take a different view from the Government . we believe in a justice system that be fair , robust and , above all , transparent . we recognise that to break the cycle of reoffende we must invest in our probation service and make it a beacon of rehabilitation . we understand that to truly protect the public , we must ensure that prison be place where offender can be securely house and effectively reform , within a justice system that stand as a testament to our value , not a monument to failure . as this be the first time I have face the hon . member for Cardiff West ( Kevin Brennan ) across the Dispatch Box , I would like to start on a point of agreement . I agree with he that this have be a strong and thoughtful debate , and I be grateful to all those who have speak . as my right hon . and learn Friend the Lord Chancellor say when he open the debate , the Bill build on our record of cut crime , and it will protect the public and cut crime even far . the most dangerous offender will remain behind bar for long , and we will take action to prevent those who have commit low - level offence from fall far into life of crime . right hon . and hon . member have raise a wide range of point and question . unfortunately , in the time I have I will not be able to respond to all of they , but I be of course happy to engage with member individually later — [ interruption . ] order . there be a lot of member enter the Chamber , for reason that be apparent , who have not take part in or hear this debate . I hope the House will do the Minister the courtesy of listen to his wind - up speech . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker . I will respond to Members I do not mention individually either in writing or in person , especially on any point that I miss . the hon . member for Birmingham , Ladywood ( Shabana Mahmood ) , who open the debate for the opposition , start her remark by say that the Government be do nothing to address prison place . it be true that the prison population have rise under this government , and that be because more people be go to prison for long under this Government . it be not true to say that the Government be do nothing about prison place . we have set about the large prison building programme since the victorian era . we have set about build 20 , 000 new prison place , back by £ 4 billion of investment , and we have deliver 5 , 500 of those place already , with a further 2 , 000 come on line later this year . by the end of 2025 , we will have deliver over 10 , 000 place in total . we be build six new prison . HMP five Wells and HMP Fosse way have open in the last two year . HMP Millsike be under construction in York , and three further prison in Leicestershire , Buckinghamshire and Lancashire be go through the planning process . the hon . member go on to attack we over probation . she be right that some prison capacity measure will increase the demand for probation , but we be commit to ensure that probation have the resource it need to meet demand . this year we have already increase funding for the probation service by £ 155 million , to recruit staff , bring down case load and well deliver the supervision of offender in the community . we continue to focus on recruitment and retention , and we have accelerate the recruitment of trainee probation officer to increase staffing level , particularly in area with the most significant staffing challenge . as a result , we have increase staffing in the probation service by over 4 , 000 people since 2020 . the hon . member for Birmingham , Ladywood finish her speech with the claim that Labour be in favour of tough sentence , but the fact of the matter be that Labour have oppose every single measure this Government have introduce since enter office . it be Labour that introduce the halfway release point for serious offender under section 244 of the Criminal Justice Act 2003 , and it be labour that vote against we when we toughen sentence for serious offender . Labour vote against our Police , Crime , Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 , prefer to keep dangerous criminal on our street rather than behind bar . that Act introduce whole - life order for child killer and life sentence for driver who kill while intoxicate , end the automatic release of dangerous and violent sexual offender , and give the Secretary of State the power to refer to the Parole Board high - risk offender who would otherwise be automatically release . Labour vote against all of that , so we will take no lesson from they . the hon . member for Cardiff West run through the list of speaker . I will not do the same , but I will pick out a few . the Chairman of the Justice Committee and my constituency neighbour , my hon . friend the Member for Bromley and Chislehurst ( Sir Robert Neill ) , give a characteristically knowledgeable , thoughtful and balanced speech , substantially support by my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Northampton North ( Sir Michael Ellis ) and my hon . friend the Member for Aylesbury ( Rob Butler ) . he set out the statutory purpose of prison , and he suggest that we should have smart sentencing — we will look at that . he also make the sensible point that short sentence disrupt community tie , relationship , job and home life , and that the loss of these can lead to great reoffending . on short sentence , I make it clear that we be not abolish sentence of immediate custody . there be no propose ban . the court will retain wide discretion to impose immediate custody in many circumstance , as my hon . friend the Member for Bury North ( James Daly ) correctly observe . where a sentence be suspend , the court have a range of robust power to ensure that offender be effectively manage , include electronic monitoring to ensure that curfew of up to 20 hour a day be observe , and exclusion zone so that they stay out of area where they be most likely to get into trouble . there be also various high - tech solution , such as alcohol tag that be so sophisticated they can take a reading of an offender ' s sweat every 30 minute to make sure they be confront the issue with alcohol that land they in trouble in the first place . it be also true that more than 50 % of those who be sentence to less than 12 month will go on to commit another offence within one year of their release . when offender be give suspend sentence in the community , with condition , the reoffende rate be much low at around 24 % . the Ministry of Justice ' s own robust evidence suggest that similar offender , give community sentence or suspend sentence order , be four percentage point less likely to reoffend than those sentence to short custodial sentence . that might not sound like a great deal , but it could mean that up to 21 , 000 few offence be committed , mean that few of our constituent become victim of crime . my hon . friend the Member for Harborough ( Neil o ' Brien ) rightly mention remand and how the significant rise in remand be contribute to prison demand . there be various reason for the increase in remand , but the court backlog drive by the pandemic and the subsequent Bar strike be substantial reason . we be do everything in our power to bring down the backlog , but he will understand that the judiciary be fully independent . it be not within our gift to dictate which case be take to court . nothing in this Bill diminish our effort to reduce the backlog and reduce demand pressure . I will be happy to meet he to discuss this far . protect the public from crime be our top priority . the most effective way to do that be to reduce the amount of crime be commit , which be why we be introduce the presumption to suspend short sentence . the Government be take resolute , evidence - base action to ensure that low - level offender break the cycle of offending , because reoffende devastate community and create more victim . the measure concern whole - life order be welcome on both side of the House . these measure will ensure that the very bad murderer will spend the rest of their life in prison . there will be no possibility of release by the Parole Board for such offender . by make those change , we be send the very clear message that for the most heinous , horrific case , a whole - life order will be the correct sentence . that can only be prevent if the court believe that there be exceptional circumstance — and they would have to be exceptional circumstance — that would make such a sentence unjustified . murder of a single victim that involve sadistic or sexual conduct will also be punishable by the imposition of a whole - life order — again , unless there be exceptional circumstance . such offending be so serious , and cause so much anguish to victim ' family and wide community — as we have see follow the brutal killing of Zara Aleena , Sabina Nessa and other — that it be only right for such perpetrator to be lock up for the rest of their life . a number of member refer to sexual offence , include my right hon . friend the Member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) . I will focus on rape . rape be a uniquely serious crime and one that cause terrible trauma for its victim , so it be right for those find guilty of rape , and other equally serious sexual offence , to be subject to a punishment that reflect the severity of their offending . these measure will ensure that rapist serve the whole of their custodial sentence behind bar . they will no long be subject to any automatic or discretionary early release , but will have to spend every single day of their custodial term lock up , as direct by the court . that will be follow by a robust period on licence during which such offender will be supervise by the probation service and will be subject to a possible recall to custody if their risk can not be safely manage in the community . it be clear from the debate that there be strong view on the Bill , but it be the first stage of a legislative process , and we welcome engagement from member on both side of the House as we seek to strike the right balance in sentencing . I personally can see the merit in idea such as review some measure and perhaps even a power to switch they off , and it be right that we consider the use of these measure carefully . have hear the point raise by several member about knife crime , I will look closely at that issue . our aim be to ensure that we can keep the most dangerous offender in prison for as long as necessary to keep the public safe from harm , while ensure that sentence do not trap the redeemable in a revolving door of offend . I therefore commend the Bill to the House . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read a second time . sentencing BILL ( PROGRAMME ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 83A ( 7 ) ) , that the follow provision shall apply to the Sentencing Bill : Committal ( 1 ) the Bill shall be commit to a Committee of the whole House . proceeding in Committee , on consideration and on Third Reading ( 2 ) proceeding in Committee of the whole House shall be take in the following order : clause 1 ; schedule 1 ; clause 2 to 6 ; schedule 2 ; clause 7 ; schedule 3 ; clause 8 to 11 ; new Clauses ; new Schedules ; remaining proceeding on the Bill . ( 3 ) proceeding in Committee of the whole House shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion five hour after their commencement . ( 4 ) any proceeding on consideration and proceeding on Third read shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion six hour after the commencement of proceeding in Committee of the whole House . ( 5 ) Standing Order no . 83b ( programming committee ) shall not apply to proceeding in Committee of the whole House , to any proceeding on consideration or to proceeding on Third Reading . other proceeding ( 6 ) any other proceeding on the Bill may be program . — ( Aaron Bell . ) question agree to . UK - Rwanda Partnership with permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will make a statement about the Government ' s plan to stop the boat and tackle the vile trade in people smuggle across the channel . three week ago , the Supreme Court hand down its judgment on this Government ' s migration and economic development agreement with Rwanda . in that judgment their lordship uphold the view of the High Court and the Court of Appeal that it be lawful to relocate illegal migrant , who have no right to be here , to another safe country for asylum processing and resettlement , but uphold the judgment of the Court of Appeal , which mean that the Government can not yet lawfully remove people to Rwanda . that be due to the Court ' s concern that relocate individual might be " refoule " — remove to a country where they could face persecution or ill treatment . we do not agree with that assessment , but of course we respect the judgment of the Supreme Court . the Supreme Court also acknowledge that its concern be not immutable and be not an aspersion on Rwanda ' s intention , and that change may be deliver in the future that could address its concern . today I can inform the House that those concern have be conclusively answer and those change make , as a result of intensive diplomacy by the Prime Minister , by the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , by the Attorney General ' s Office and by the Home Office . we have create a situation that address the concern . our rule of law partnership with Rwanda set out in a legally bind international treaty the obligation on both the United Kingdom and Rwanda within international law , and set out to this House and to the court why Rwanda be and will remain a safe country for the purpose of asylum and resettlement . this be a partnership to which we and Rwanda be completely committed . Rwanda be a safe and prosperous country . it be a vital partner for the UK . our treaty put beyond legal doubt the safety of Rwanda and end the endless merry - go - round of legal challenge that have thus far frustrate this policy and second - guess the will of Parliament . I want to put on record my gratitude to President Kagame , Foreign Minister Biruta and the Rwandan Government for work with we at pace to do what it take to get this deal up and run with flight take off as soon as possible . Rwanda will introduce a strengthened end - to - end asylum system , which will include a new specialist asylum appeal tribunal to consider individual appeal against any refuse claim . it will have one Rwandan and one other Commonwealth co - president and be make up of judge from a mix of nation select by those co - president . we have be work with Rwanda to build capacity and to make it clear to those relocate to Rwanda that they will not be send to another third country . the treaty be bind in international law . it also enhance the role of the independent monitoring committee , which will ensure adherence to obligation under the treaty and have the power to set its own priority area for monitoring . it will be give unfettered access to complete assessment and report and to monitor the entire relocation process , from initial screening to relocation and settlement in Rwanda . it will also develop a system to enable relocate individual and legal representative to lodge confidential complaint directly with the committee . but , give the Supreme Court judgment , we can not be confident that the court will respect a new treaty on its own , so today the Government have publish emergency legislation to make it unambiguously clear that Rwanda be a safe country and to prevent the court from second - guess Parliament ' s will . we will introduce that legislation tomorrow in the form of the Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Bill , to give effect to the judgment of Parliament that Rwanda be a safe country , notwithstanding UK law or any interpretation of international law . for the purpose of the Bill , a safe country be define as one to which people may be remove from the United Kingdom in compliance with all the United Kingdom ' s obligation under international law that be relevant to the treatment in that country of people who be remove there . this mean that someone remove to that country will not be remove or send to another country in contravention of any international law , and that anyone who be seek asylum or who have have an asylum determination will have their claim determine and be treat in accordance with that country ' s obligation under international law . anyone remove to Rwanda under the provision of the treaty will not be remove from Rwanda , except to the United Kingdom in a very small number of limited and extreme circumstance , and should the UK request the return of any relocate person , Rwanda will make they available . decision maker , include the Home Secretary , immigration officer and the court , must all treat Rwanda as a safe country , and they must do so notwithstanding all relevant UK law or any interpretation of international law , include the human right convention ; the refugee convention ; the 1966 international covenant on civil and political right ; the 1984 UN convention against torture and other cruel , inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment ; the Council of Europe convention on action against trafficking in human being , which be sign in Warsaw on 16 May 2005 ; customary international law ; and any other international law , or convention or rule of international law , whatsoever , include any order , judgment , decision or measure of the European Court of Human Rights . where the European Court of Human Rights indicate an interim measure relate to the intended removal of someone to Rwanda under , or purportedly under , a provision of immigration act , a Minister of the Crown alone , and not a court or tribunal , will decide whether the United Kingdom will comply with the interim measure . to far prevent individual claim to prevent removal , the Bill disapplie the relevant provision of the Human Rights Act 1998 , include section 2 , 3 , 6 , 7 , 8 and 9 . the Bill be lawful , it be fair and it be necessary , because people will stop come here illegally only when they know that they can not stay here and that they will be detain and quickly remove to a safe third country . it be only by break the cycle and deliver a deterrent that we will remove the incentive for people to be smuggle here and stop the boat . this legislation build on the Illegal Migration Act 2023 , which the House pass this summer , and complement the basket of other measure that the UK Government be employ to end illegal migration — for example , the large ever small boat deal with France . tackle the supply of boat and part , the arrest and conviction of people smuggler , and illegal work raid have all help to drive down small boat arrival by more than a third this year , even as the number be rise elsewhere in Europe . Parliament and the public alike support the Rwanda plan . other country have since copy our plan with Rwanda , and we know from interview that the prospect of be relocate out of the UK have already have a deterrent effect . this will be considerably magnify when we get the flight to Rwanda . this treaty and this new Bill will help to make that a reality , and I commend this statement to the House . the usual rule apply : only those who have be here for the statement should stand to ask a question . I call the shadow Home Secretary . I thank the Home Secretary for advance sight of the statement . there be total chaos in the Government and the conservative party . these be the desperate die day of a party rip itself apart . it be clearly totally out of idea and have lose any sense of leadership or direction . we have the Home Secretary make a statement , but there be rumour that the Immigration Minister have resign . where be he ? perhaps the Home Secretary could make that the first question he answer : do he still have an Immigration Minister in place ? the Conservatives have open warfare on their Back Benches , the starting gun have be fire on the next leadership election and , once again , the whole country be pay the price for this chaos . this be the third Home Secretary to go to Rwanda with a cheque book and come back wave a piece of paper make grand promise . this be the third piece of new Tory legislation on channel crossing in two year . each time , they have tell we that new law would stop all the boat crossing and send everyone who arrive to another country , but they have to partially revoke the first law because it be make thing bad and they have not implement the second one because they know it will not work . now , they be on their third new law . forgive we for not believe that this one be go to solve anything , either . the previous Home Secretary seem to agree with we , because she be already say tonight that the Bill be " fatally flawed " and that it will not stop the boat . one side of the conservative party be warn that it do not come close to meet Suella ' s test ; the other side be appal that the Home Secretary , who use to wander round the world promote international law , just boast in his statement about a new british Bill that tell the court not just to ignore international law , but to ignore the fact . what kind of party have they become ? what of the view from No . 10 ? the Prime Minister have just meet his Back Benchers , and the official briefing from that meeting say that he have tell mp that the Government have go as far as possible , but Rwanda do not want to be part of anything that break or disapplied international law . the statement from the Rwandan Government say : " without lawful behaviour by the UK , Rwanda would not be able to continue with the Migration and Economic Development Partnership . " you could not make this up ! our Supreme Court say that the Rwanda scheme be a problem because of evidence that Rwanda be not comply with international treaty on the treatment of asylum seeker , but the only thing stop the british Government ignore international law completely be the Rwandan Government . it be the Rwandan Government keep we on the straight and narrow . the Prime Minister be too scared to defend a policy in its own term and too scared to tell his Back Benchers what he really think — too scared to take a view . instead , he be hide behind President Kagame . weak , weak , weak . he do not deserve to be run the country if he can not even sort out the issue and the division on his flagship policy in his own party . and all of this for what ? for a scheme that will likely cover less than 1 % of the people who arrive in this country to claim asylum and will cost hundred of million of pound of taxpayer ' money . will the Home Secretary tell we about the cost ? in 2022 , the UK taxpayer pay Rwanda £ 140 million , but the permanent secretary have say that there be additional payment each year . will the Home Secretary tell we , on top of that £ 140 million , how much more have already be send as an additional payment this year ? be there a secret commitment to make annual payment under the migration and economic development partnership even if no asylum seeker be send to Rwanda ? will he confirm that the british taxpayer will also have to pay additional million to sort out the problem in the rwandan asylum system , even though the Government be totally fail to sort out the problem and delay in the british asylum system , which the conservative break ? will he also confirm that the UK be pay cost for people send to Rwanda for five year ? will he tell we how much that will cost ? will he confirm that it will be at least twice as much as deal with those case here ? will he also tell we , instead of try to hide the information , the total sum that he will be pay to Rwanda ? will the Home Secretary tell we how many people be go to be cover ? the treaty say that it be limit by capacity in Rwanda , and the Court of Appeal say that it would be 100 people and that talk of thousand of people be " political hyperbole " . will he now admit that even if he ever get this fail scheme off the ground , it will cover less than 1 % of the people who apply for asylum last year ? will he tell we how many rwandan refugee the UK be go to take , and who be go to pay for they ? the Home Secretary have a treaty and a law that he know will not stop dangerous boat crossing . we should be take action to stop those crossing , to go after the criminal gang and to clear the asylum backlog , and he know that Labour ' s plan to set up a new cross - border unit would have far more effect than the thing that he have be talk about today . he say Rwanda be not the " be - all and end - all " , but his Back Benchers think it be do or die — that be why he be in so much chaos . he think — he have say it privately — that this whole thing be " batshit " . that be nothing on what he have have to swallow to come forward and make this statement today . this be total chaos . the Government be argue about full - fat , semi - skim or skim option — it be a full - on milk war in the Tory party , which sum up this fail government . they can not solve their own Tory boat crisis . they can not defend our border security . they can not solve their broken asylum system , and they can not hold their party together . they do not deserve to run the country . Britain deserve well than this . More ! the call for more from the right hon . Lady ' s own Back Benchers be well place . I be hope that she would speak for long , so that she would eventually get around to give we some comment about the Bill , or the policy , or give we some clue about what on earth Labour would do . it be quite interesting that , once again , we see the mask slip on the Opposition Benches . the right hon . Lady be critical about the financial arrangement that go hand in hand with the agreement that we have come to with Rwanda . it be interesting that her be the same party that be very critical of this government when we be force by circumstance to reduce our official development assistance expenditure . I just want to understand the Opposition ' s thinking . they seem comfortable with the idea that the UK give away money to country such as Rwanda to help they develop , but they seem deeply uncomfortable when those country actually earn the money by bring forward reform . it be , I think , a rather distasteful state of affair that they would like to view Rwanda exclusively through the prism of development and aid , but be deeply uncomfortable when a country like Rwanda earn the money . the simple truth be that Rwanda be make huge progress in professionalise and strengthen its institution , work alongside the UK and other international partner . I believe that we be duty - bind to support country such as Rwanda when they play their part in address the issue that the world be face . they be help to resolve problem , rather than be part of a problem , and they deserve our thank for do so . we will pursue this legislation , which support a treaty that see Rwanda strengthen its institution and address some of the world ' s most intractable challenge , and we support it as it be support we . can people please focus on ask a question and not make statement , and please can we hear the question and the answer in silence ? there be a lot of call out on both side of the House . I thank my right hon . friend for his statement . clearly , he be become incredibly familiar with the legal challenge that the Government , the country and the nation face when it come to migration issue . can he give we detail of the assessment that have be make as to whether the disapplication of the Human Rights Act and other law be robust , will stand up to the legal challenge and , ultimately , will ensure the delivery and the implementation of this policy to curb illegal migration ? the UK take its international obligation incredibly seriously . the Human Rights Act be , in part , be disapplie through this legislation . we be , of course , one of the found member of the European Court of Human Rights and we regard it as an important institution , but , like many post - war institution , it would benefit from evolution and updating . I make that position clear when I be Foreign Secretary . the point be that we want to make sure that a country , Rwanda , which be work with we , strengthen its institution and seek to do the right thing by both european refugee and african refugee , be support in do so . we have a robust legal system and a robust parliamentary system here in the UK ; we should have some more self - confidence in those system and use our experience to help capacity building in partner country such as Rwanda . when the permanent secretary come before the Home Affairs Select Committee last week , he be unable to tell we how much be be spend on the Rwanda deal because minister have decide to update Parliament annually . can the Home Secretary confirm today how much additional money will be provide to Rwanda in the light of the change in the treaty , and whether he will update Parliament more often than once a year ? we be look forward to see the Immigration Minister at the Home Affairs Select Committee next Wednesday to ask he further question ; if , for whatever reason , he be not able to attend , will the Home Secretary attend in his place ? let I make it absolutely clear : we remain committed to our promise to publish the cost of the scheme on an annual basis . to make this absolutely clear to the House , too , the Rwandans ask for no additional money in connection with this treaty . none be ask for , none be offer and none be provide . we will update the House in the way we have commit to and I have no doubt that the Immigration Minister will come before the right hon . Lady ' s Committee as promise . the Prime Minister say that he would not allow a foreign court to block his Rwanda plan — meaning , of course , the European Court of Human Rights — so can my right hon . friend the Home Secretary explain why article 11 ( 4 ) ( a ) of the treaty expressly require Rwanda to enable migrant to make claim to that European Court ? throughout this plan , we have make it clear that we will remain in conformity with international law . the European Court of Human Rights do of course have an important role to play , but the point we have make be that there be many country that be in disagreement with international court , include the European Court of Human Rights . we be determined to do the right thing to deter the evil people smuggler , the slave trader , and those people who would seek to abuse and take advantage of vulnerable people , and to work with Rwanda , in conformity with international law , but be clear that we be not go to be deter from act promptly . Humpty Dumpty say , " when I use a word , it mean just what I choose it to mean — neither more nor less . " just by say that Rwanda be a safe country do not make it so . legislating do not make it so . the Home Secretary say that Rwanda be safe , yet somehow his treaty say that we will accept asylum seeker from Rwanda — from that safe country — so it be both safe and unsafe . he say that he respect the assessment of the Supreme Court , but he be here today to override it . his treaty say that they will not remove child , but the treaty be full of provision for what happen when child do end up in Rwanda . he say that human right be important , but they be not there for everybody , and he seek to disapply they . the Home Secretary come here today while the Rwandan Minister say : " it have always be important to both Rwanda and the UK that our rule of law partnership meet the high standard of international law , and it place obligation on both the UK and Rwanda to act lawfully . without lawful behaviour by the UK , Rwanda would not be able to continue with the Migration and Economic Development Partnership . " so if this deal do break international law and our treaty obligation , the deal fail to exist . [ interruption . ] the Home Secretary say it do not , but it be not a matter in which they can just overlook the human right convention , the refugee convention and all those other convention and disapply they when it suit . international law do not work that way . this be an assault on human right . we should not let this stand from this House , because human right be universal and they be for everybody , not who the Home Secretary think they should apply to . this Bill be a dangerous distraction ; it be part of a march towards fascism . every single piece — [ interruption . ] I do not say that lightly , Mr Deputy Speaker . I do not say these thing lightly . do the Home Secretary believe that human right be universal or do he not ? that be the key question on this legislation , because we have be tell , on every piece of legislation we have pass so far , that it would be a deterrent , yet none of they have work . this illiberal , toxic piece of legislation today be suppose to be a deterrent , when all the other have fail . the Home Secretary ' s plan for Rwanda have be find to be unlawful . they be immoral . they be a waste of money . they should be scrap . Scotland want none of this — none of this — appal legislation . it be a shame that the hon . Lady ' s comment be clearly base on what I can only assume be a cursory and superficial skim of the legislation . she criticise it for a number of thing that be not in the legislation , so I will forgive she for the fact that she do not take the time to read it properly . we be absolutely committed to human right . we be one of the founder of the European Court of Human Rights and our commitment to abide by international law be unwavering . it underpin the relationship we have with Rwanda and I can assure she that it will remain at the forefront of our thinking throughout . and she might reflect on the appropriateness of throw the word fascism around when we be bring forward a Bill on which every Member of this House will be allow to vote , because we be in a democracy . the new Home Secretary will be aware and welcome the fact that he will be gauge , indeed judge , on the effectiveness of this legislation for week , month , year and perhaps even decade . will he confirm that the provision in the Bill be sufficient to resist individual challenge from those who might be send to Rwanda , and the interest group and the delude dodgy lawyer who support they ? in particular , will he speak specifically about the disapplication of rule 39 ? the right be for Ministers to decide on our response to a rule 39 application . that be in the Bill . my right hon . friend be right that this set important precedent . the precedent we want to establish be that the people who wish to live and work in this country should do so through the numerous safe and legal route that we have establish ; that those people who put themselves in the hand of evil , vile criminal gang and people smuggler should not expect to be here ; but that we work with safe third country , such as Rwanda , to ensure that those people who be remove from here still have their human right respect and be home in a country that respect their human right . that underpin the Bill , that underpin the treaty that the Bill support , and that run through the heart of all the action and decision we will make in our response to illegal migration . the United States Department of State ' s annual country report on Rwanda say that among its human right issue be unlawful killing , arbitrary killing , cruel , inhuman or degrading treatment , and torture by the Rwandan Government . by what token do the Home Secretary judge that Rwanda be a safe country ? should he not , actually , hang his head in shame ? the Supreme Court , when it hand down its decision , focus on two element of the situation in Rwanda . one be about the capacity of its judicial system , in particular with decision on refugee . we have work with Rwanda to improve that situation . the treaty underpin the fantastic work the Rwandans have do with we and other to strengthen their institution . the judgment also speak about the fear of refoulement , and the treaty will ensure that that will not happen . I be also strike that the Supreme Court , in its judgment , make heavy reference to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees . the UNHCR be critical of Rwanda , and yet on the day after the judgment be hand down by their lordship , it fly 160 - plus refugee to Rwanda . I judge it by its action , not necessarily by its word . Rwanda have make huge progress with our help and that of other , so it be now in a situation where it can sign a treaty that protect refugee send there . I be very confident that that will be the case . it be long overdue that we get to grip with the current level of both legal and illegal immigration in this country , and that be what our voter expect we to do . I congratulate my right hon . friend on bring proposal before we , unlike the intellectual vacuum of the Labour party . can we be clear that when it come to the boat crisis , the fault do not lie with those who try to seek a well life for themselves and their family , but with those who trade in human being ? do my right hon . friend agree that there be a moral imperative to break the business model of the people smuggler , no less than there be a moral imperative to break the evil of slavery at the time ? should not all of we who believe in human right dedicate ourselves to that end ? my right hon . friend be absolutely right . we do not do this because it be easy , or because it be convenient ; we do it because it be incredibly important . if , collectively , the UK and other european country do not address the issue of people smuggle , the winner will be the people smuggler ; the loser will be the people who be manipulate by the people smuggler , the one who be rob , beat , rape and murder , or who drown in the Mediterranean or in the Channel . those be the people we be try to help by bring in a structure that break the business model of the people smuggler . the vacuum that he talk about on the Labour Benches mean that the silence when it come to idea be deafen . opposition member choose to oppose at every stage , but they do nothing — nothing — to address the evil of our time . I be sure , Mr Deputy Speaker , you will soon be update we on when the next personal statement might be make to the House . those in Kigali appear to understand and agree with Winston Churchill . the point of international treaty and the European Court of Human Rights be to tackle oppressive government and the thing they do to citizen . we do not sign up to international treaty just on immigration law , so a change to anything in our relationship with the European Court of Human Rights will have an impact , potentially , on the trade and co - operation agreement , because that specifically state that if we end judicial co - operation , there would be a problem . the Good Friday agreement also have the ECHR at the heart of it . will the Home Secretary therefore tell we what conversation he have have with the European Union and the Irish about this legislation ? this legislation do not change our relationship with the echr . some in this House take the view that our proposal be not the way to treat asylum seeker . do my right hon . friend agree that the people we be talk about be arrive in this country from a safe country , France , and be mostly young man in their 20 and 30 who come here as economic migrant and not asylum seeker ? it be important that that point be recognise . this country have always be , and remain , incredibly generous to people who be flee persecution and seek safe haven . we will continue to provide that , but it be also right that many people who attempt to come to this country do so to get a well economic life for themselves . as my right hon . friend the Member for North Somerset ( Dr Fox ) say , we do not criticise people who seek to come to this country for economic reason , but we make it clear that there be safe and legal route for they to do so . this be about break the business model of evil people smuggler who prey on the people my right hon . friend the Member for North West Cambridgeshire ( Shailesh Vara ) speak of . we be duty - bind to explore every way of break that evil model and that evil trade in human misery to ensure that we protect the people who need protect by work with country such as Rwanda that seek to do the right thing on the world stage . government briefing suggest that the Government want to go far with the Bill but the Rwandan Government stop they . how do the Home Secretary feel about be legally constrain by President Kagame ? that speculation be not accurate . within the whole of this negotiation , we have always make it clear that we would work within the boundary of international law . Rwanda take international law just as seriously as we do , which be why we be both completely comfortable that these proposal be within the bound of international law . over the past few year , we have take over half a million refugee from different part of the world — woman , child and other — from country in extreme difficulty . do my right hon . friend agree that if we can stop people be traffic across the channel in small boat , we may well be able to help more of those who be genuinely in the most danger ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . it be so important for we to break the trade in human misery be perpetrate by the people smuggler . this be a generous country . we do not want the people smuggler to abuse and erode that generosity . that be why get this right and work with Rwanda be so important , and why I be proud of how hard the Rwandans have work to ensure that their institution be robust , fair and impartial . I want to know how much this shamble have cost the british taxpayer so far and how much it will continue to cost we . the treaty mean that we would be oblige to support someone in Rwanda for up to five year . what estimate have the Home Secretary make , under the term of the treaty , of how much it will cost to support just one person for the full five year ? again , I find this rather strange . as the House know , I have already answer that in say that it will be report in accordance with the commitment that have already be make . however , I do think it be interesting how uncomfortable Opposition Members be with our have a partnership with an african country rather than an aid relationship . the mask have slip on how the Labour party view country such as Rwanda , which be advance and develop and which seek to be treat as partner rather than just recipient of aid . the UK - Rwanda partnership be a long - stand one . I first go to the country 15 year ago and have return many time since , include when I be serve as Africa Minister . how many of the Opposition Members who be rail against the deal or the judge who have criticise the deal have be to the now Commonwealth country of Rwanda ? my hon . Friend ask an incredibly important question . I have recently return from Rwanda . I have have extensive dealing with the Rwandan Government — a Commonwealth partner , as she say . it be a country whose political leadership in many , perhaps most , case have themselves be refugee . they have huge pride in their country and a plan to see it genuinely step up and be a serious player on the world stage . this partnership with the UK be part of Rwanda ' s plan for development and advancement . we should support country such as Rwanda , which be seek to solve the world ' s problem rather than be part of the world ' s problem . I be afraid that I have hear nothing from the Home Secretary today that persuade I that the Rwanda policy be anything other than immoral , expensive and unworkable . early today , his predecessor tell the House that she believe that if the policy do not work , the conservative party would face " electoral oblivion " . I wonder whether the Home Secretary accept that it could be face that situation because the policy be unworkable . obviously , my plan be to make this work . my right hon . friend be to be congratulate on his commendable effort to address a problem that be a major source of concern to all our constituent by conclude the treaty with Rwanda and publish the Bill today . the Bill , as he will anticipate , will be closely scrutinise by colleague , and I be sure he will be happy to answer question , but could he assist I with one point ? clause 4 ( 1 ) ( b ) specifically allow a court to consider an appeal " on the ground that … Rwanda be not a safe country for the person in question " , base on that individual ' s particular circumstance . can my right hon . friend say why that clause be insert in the Bill , and can he assure the House that it do not in any sense frustrate the Bill ' s intent ? I can give my right hon . friend the reassurance that we do not envisage that this will frustrate the Bill ' s intent . it be important that claimant do have recourse , if only for factual error . we be absolutely confident that the numerous measure that Rwanda have take mean that it be in fact a safe country for the purpose of asylum , because of the capacity build that we and other have do with its judicial system and because of its treaty commitment on non - refoulement . therefore , we be absolutely confident that this will go forward , but it be of course right that there have to be mechanism for individual case . can the Home Secretary confirm that he go to Rwanda intend to get a treaty that go much far than he have be allow to go , and that what stop he be that the Rwandan Government refuse to be party to a treaty that do not recognise international law and convention ? what do it say about take back control when Rwanda be dictate his immigration policy ? the hon . member ' s question start with an error , and get bad from that point onwards . the simple fact of the matter be that we have be work with the Rwandans . they do not dictate to we , and we do not dictate to they . we negotiate in good faith , as mature democracy tend to do . I thank the Home Secretary for his effort to tackle a problem that be of great concern to my constituent in Sleaford and North Hykeham , and I welcome the assertion of parliamentary sovereignty because many of my constituent have question how court can tell we what to do . however , there be a provision , as he say , for individual claim . can he tell I in what circumstance such an individual claim could expect to be successful , and how long that and the appeal process would be expect to take ? the provision for individual claim be nothing to do with the safety of Rwanda , and that be the important distinction that need to be make . of course , there do need to be provision for appeal — that be a normal part of any judicial or legal process — but the point be that in this Bill we be take a huge step forward in our ability to work with Rwanda on refugee assessment , administration and ultimate relocation . the ECHR be fundamental to the operation of our Senedd in Wales . have the Home Secretary take full account of the danger that his proposal may deal a fatal blow to devolution as it be at present ? we have no intention of leave the echr , so the hon . member ' s concern be unwarranted . the Home Secretary have deliver his deal with his typical efficiency and transparency , and that should be welcome , but one key aspect of immigration policy be the fast processing of claim in this country . will he outline the progress the Government have make in that regard , and can he tell I and the House how it go hand in hand with the Rwanda policy ? my hon . friend be absolutely right that this be part of a plan that have a number of element . the speedy processing of asylum claim here in the UK be an important part of that . there have be a tenfold increase in the pace of asylum decision , which be really important . that relieve pressure on asylum accommodation , which I know something about as the MP represent Wethersfield . we be absolutely determined that this plan , in conjunction with the other element of our migration plan , will stop the boat , gain control of our border and ensure that people know that those who come to the UK have do so through safe and legal route , be add to our society , be contribute to our economy , and know that they will be welcome when they arrive . the Home Secretary have twice refuse to answer the question of whether the Immigration Minister have resign — but he have , hasn ' t he ? have he resign because he think that this policy do not stand an earthly chance of working , or have he resign because he be embarrassed that a british Government would actually put Ministers above the law ? in other word , have he resign because he think this policy be crazy or because he do not think it be crazy enough ? the hon . Gentleman always have an amusing turn of phrase , but his question be not one for I . if he want to know what any particular Member of the House be think , he should ask that Member of the House . I echo the Home Secretary ' s praise of the patience show by Rwanda , whose integrity have be severely impugn by those who oppose the treaty . the Strasbourg Court recently say that it be go to reform rule 39 indication , acknowledge their weakness . there would not be anonymous judge give ruling , they would only be use in extremis and the Government would be allow to put their case to weigh up the evidence . rule 39 indication do not form part of the original european convention on human right in any case , so how confident be my right hon . friend that challenge to rwandan deportation will not now fall foul of rule 39 interim order under the term of the new treaty ? my hon . friend make an incredibly important point , which prove that , when the UK make our case in international institution such as the echr and other , we be listen to , our view be respect and change be make . that be why reform of these institution be important and be do , often because of the point that the UK make . he be absolutely right : the legislation that support the treaty , which be the really important element of this , will mean that we be much well able to send people who should not be in the UK to Rwanda for their asylum application and to start a new life in a country that be increasingly well prepared humanely and effectively to home they . the reality be that the Government be make a mockery of international law and play with people ' s life . the Home Secretary reference his plan to tackle illegal migration , but his plan for legal immigration be just as draconian . double the minimum income requirement for family visa to £ 38 , 700 , know full well that hundred of thousand of family will be tear apart , be nothing less than calculated , vindictive and punitive . be the Home Secretary really prepare to tear up international law and tear family apart just so that he can throw some red meat to his hard - right tory back Benchers ? we be not break international law . clearly , the most important thing about this proposal be to deter desperate people from leave a safe country and make the riskiest journey possible across the busy sea lane in the world . can the Home Secretary update we on the position ? the message that need to go to the people smuggler and those desperate people be : " if you make this desperate journey you will be remove to Rwanda , a safe country , for processing " — and this be the key point — " from now on , not in many month ' time . " my intention , and the intention of the Government , be to ensure that this be operationalise as quickly as possible . my hon . friend make an incredibly important point : those people who have be smuggle across Europe by these people smuggler find themselves on the coast of France , a safe , prosperous and welcome country , and be encourage by those evil people smuggler to get on increasingly fragile and unseaworthy vessel to try to cross the busy shipping lane in the world , at huge personal risk , in order to come to the UK . the message that they have to hear be , " do not make that dangerous journey , because you will not be able to stay in the UK . if you want to come and live and work here , do so by the safe and legal route that be available to you . " the Home Secretary have continuously say that this Bill comply with international law . how do he square that with the statement on the front of the Bill that he be " unable to make a statement that , in my view , the provision of the Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Bill be compatible with the Convention right " ? because what the statement on the front of the Bill say be clear — the word be unambiguous — but I be also absolutely certain that we be in accordance with international law . the two be not interchangeable . as I know all too well , it be easy to throw rock and criticise from the sideline on immigration ; it be a lot hard to actually get on and deliver something . what have be publish today bring up question about the law and how it will be implement — the practicality of get people to Rwanda — and a couple of point come to mind . first , if someone do appeal , would that appeal be non - suspensive of their transfer to Rwanda so that they could still be remove , pende a final decision on their claim ? secondly , on get plane off the ground , we can not put someone on just any plane to implement this , so have the Home Secretary raise with the Ministry of Defence the prospect that its aircraft might be use for the transfer ? as my hon . friend will understand , I do not want to go into too much detail about all the operational procedure at this point , but I can reassure he that we be think about the logistic . within Rwanda , there be a well - mature process whereby people can escalate their claim in a way that be completely consistent with international law . the Rwandans be very keen to demonstrate their conformity with international law , just as we be . four day before International Human Rights Day , it be shameful that we be seek to disapply part of the Human Rights Act for a certain group of people , and it make I feel incredibly sad . do the Attorney General agree that the Rwanda treaty complie with international law , and can we see she write advice ? as the hon . Lady will know , the advice of the Attorney General — who be not in her place any more — be for Government . the Government have make it clear that this be in conformity with international law . will the legislation mean that it be the British Government , elect by the british people , who determine who come to this country and in what circumstance , free from international and domestic judicial challenge and individual judicial review ? the point be that it be the job of this government to make decision about immigration policy . I reinforce the point that we be a generous country — we have prove that over and over again . we be an open - minded and generous people . this House reflect the attitude of the british people , which be one of generosity , but we also expect people to play by the rule . that be embody in this piece of legislation , and I can confirm that our view be that it be the voice of this House that should determine our immigration policy , not anyone else . the Home Office safeguard Minister , the hon . member for Newbury ( Laura Farris ) , have confirm on air that the Immigration Minister have resign . can the Home Secretary confirm that ? do he know about it ? that have be confirm . I regularly speak to Ministers in the Department but , ultimately , these question should be about the Bill rather than individual member . if the Immigration Minister , who be a good man , have resign over this Bill , that be deeply worrying . I want to hear the verdict of the star chamber chair by my hon . friend the Member for Stone ( Sir William Cash ) but , while we await that verdict , the Home Secretary pointedly duck several question about individual appeal . every person we would seek to send to Rwanda be an individual . if they can continue to appeal and appeal in order to delay be put on a flight , what be the point of the Bill ? the point be that all legal and judicial process have an appeal process . by extension of my right hon . friend ' s argument , the point that there be an appeal process in UK criminal law , for example , would mean that no one ever go to prison , and my right hon . and learn Friend the Secretary of State for Justice have just be discuss prison place . the point be that an appeal process be an important part of any legal process . it will not preclude people from be send to Rwanda . this be a robust scheme that strengthen our position and ensure that the decision we make in this House — that he , I and other make in this House — define the UK ' s immigration policy , not decision make by unelected people elsewhere . order . I remind the Home Secretary to face forward , so that his voice be pick up more easily and so that people can see he . the Home Secretary and the Government will be aware that there have be some surprise at the reciprocal agreement to welcome rwandan refugee to the United Kingdom . how can he demonstrate the safety of Rwanda as a third country while simultaneously accept the condition that produce refugee ? the hon . Gentleman ask a very important question . this part of the treaty reflect the previous memorandum of understanding that have be in place for some time , and it be particularly tie to non - refoulement . it be envisage that it will be use only in very exceptional circumstance , as I say in my statement . if there be circumstance where , for whatever reason , a refugee we have send to Rwanda can not remain there — these will be exceptionally rare case — the only place they can be return to will be the UK . do my right hon . friend agree that all these human right law be simply not design for the massive problem of illegal , mainly economic migration that we face today , and that a review be urgently need ? these framework , of which we be a found nation , be design to deal with some of the issue we see in the mid - 20th century , with often large number of people move relatively short distance for a limited period of time to flee either persecution , abuse or conflict . we be now live in fundamentally different circumstance . there be an industrial - scale attempt to use those important , well - intentione law and framework to facilitate an evil trade , the like of which we probably have not see since the dark day of the international slave trade . it be incumbent upon we to put in place framework that protect those people who be be manipulate , smuggle and abuse by people smuggler . we be seek to do that with our friend in Europe , Africa and other part of the world . if Rwanda be a safe jurisdiction , as the Home Secretary be try to legislate to say that it be , can he explain why he believe there need to be a provision in his Bill to override the power of the court ? the Supreme Court judgment to which we be respond highlight two particular area , and the treaty address both those area . it be the action that Rwanda have take in regard to strengthen its institution and the commitment it have make to non - refoulement that will enable we to say in the Bill , reflect on the treaty , that it be a safe country for these purpose . as I say in my response to an early question , the UNHCR rely on Rwanda for its refugee processing and it be therefore clear through its action , if not its word , that it also regard Rwanda be a good partner for these purpose . like the Home Secretary , my constituent want to welcome genuine asylum seeker such as the Ukrainians and the Afghans who now live in my constituency . he will have detect some disquiet on the Conservative Benches about potential element of the Bill , so will he assure the House we will be able to offer amendment that may improve it , if necessary ? the Bill will go through the House , and although we be seek to do this at pace , it will go through the process . I have no doubt that hon . and right hon . member will want to put forward amendment and of course the Government will listen to all idea that seek to improve the efficiency of the Bill . do the Home Secretary agree that our constituent would expect that , before we vote on any measure in this House , we thoroughly understand what it be go to cost ? in the end , it be not our money we be spend ; it be their money . come back to a question that he do not answer before , will he give a figure for how much it will cost this Government — our constituent — for each asylum seeker send to Rwanda for the whole five year they be there ? if he will not give we a figure now , will he agree to give a figure before we be ask to vote on the Bill ? the Government have commit to release the figure on an annual basis — [ interruption . ] the point I would make to the House on deal with migration , secure our border and tackle international criminal gang be that none of these thing be for free . we do these thing because it be the right thing to do . the money that this country spend on the West Africa Squadron of the Royal Navy to break the international slave trade be not a small amount of money , but it be the right thing to do . it break an evil trade and we be commit to break this evil trade . will my right hon . friend pay tribute to the Immigration Minister , who have apparently just resign , and thank he for all the hard work he have put into try to resolve these issue over several year , include work on this Bill ? do my right hon . Friend feel that the Government will be inhibit in their implementing of the Bill by the absence of the Immigration Minister ? will he also answer the concern that be raise on several occasion during this exchange — namely , that the Bill might be fine for deal with the issue of Rwanda as a safe country in general but that it do not deal with the issue of individual who might want to make claim base on their own individual circumstance on why they should not go to Rwanda ? I have say from this Dispatch Box and in a number of other location how much I value the work of the Immigration Minister . he have do a huge amount of work on this and in a number of other area , and the work he have do to drive down small boat arrival by a third have be absolutely instrumental . I have no doubt that the whole Government will work to ensure that this legislation achieve what I think we should all want to achieve , which be to break the business model of the people smuggler and to prevent people from be abuse by they in an attempt to come and live in the UK . from the point of view of those of we who believe in the rule of law , the separation of power and the universality of human right , there be at least three extraordinary thing about what the Home Secretary have say this evening . first , he say that he do not have confidence in the domestic court of the United Kingdom because they can not always be rely upon to do what he want they to do . secondly , he say that he will replace the jurisdiction of the domestic court of the United Kingdom with ministerial fiat in relation to interim measure pass by a court preside over a treaty to which we be fully signatory . thirdly , as Jonathan Sumption have say , it be extraordinary for the law to say that the fact be other than they be , and then to oust the jurisdiction of the court from determine whether that be the case . it be not just extraordinary ; it be also not compliant with article 6 , and of course the european convention on human right be part of our domestic law by virtue of the Human Rights Act , which the Home Secretary be not repeal . my question for the Home Secretary be this : be he proud of drive a coach and horse through the british constitution ? what I be absolutely proud of be the fact that we be seek to break the business model of the people smuggler . we recognise that , as the threat from organise criminality and the tactic of people who prey on the weak and vulnerable and put their life at risk evolve , so our response have to evolve . this be an international problem , and we be resolve it through international relationship . I be proud of the work that Rwanda have do to reform its institution , with our support and the support of other . we on this side of the House will not rest until the people - smuggle gang have be break . I have be listen carefully to the question from Opposition Members , and there have be a good many reference to human right , but surely the ultimate human right be the right to life . do the Home Secretary agree that once this legislation be pass and come into effect , few people will go to a watery grave in the english channel ? my right hon . friend have make a fundamental point . every story I read of people who have drown in the channel or the Mediterranean because their desire for a well life have be manipulate by criminal be heartbreaking , as I be sure it be for every Member of the House , and we be duty - bind to do something about it . hand - wringing and stone - throwing from the Opposition Benches will not save those people ' s live , so we choose to take action . we choose to break the criminal gang , and we be work with international partner in Africa , on the continent and elsewhere to break the business model of those gang . opposition Members can either help , or they can stand aside while we try to do the right thing and prevent people from die in the sea . the deputy chair of the Conservative Party have say that the Government should just ignore the law and send people back anyway . do the Home Secretary agree with the deputy chair of his party , and if he do , can he tell we when the conservative party become the party that rip up law and support disorder ? we absolutely abide by international law . immigration , by any admission , be a complex , long - stand and develop challenge . I have listen carefully to the concern , the obstacle and the different perspective that have be raise this evening through question , and I have also notice the confidence with which my right hon . friend have answer many of those question . may I ask he to look ahead and say when he expect to be able to return to the House and declare the Bill a success ? the timing of the passage of any Bill be in the hand of the two Chambers of this Parliament . we be not in control of the total timescale , but of course we be determined to move quickly . every day that we delay in address the criminality of organise criminal people - smuggle gang , more people ' s life be put at risk . we intend to work quickly , and we seek the support of their lordship to move quickly , so that we can get a grip on this terrible situation and so that this set of proposal , in conjunction with the other that we be already implement , can break the model of the people - smuggle gang , save life at sea , and encourage people who want to come to live and work in this country to do so by mean of the numerous safe and legal route that we have in place . I be oppose to the entirety of the Bill on policy ground , but , as a Northern Ireland MP , I have a particular duty to highlight the importance of the Human Rights Act to the Good Friday agreement , especially in respect of policing and justice reform ; to article 2 of the Windsor framework ; and to the policing and justice chapter of the EU - UK trade and co - operation agreement . may I ask the Home Secretary what step his Department have take to screen this policy and this Bill against all three of those ? we be absolutely committed to maintain peace in Northern Ireland . it be something that many people have spend their whole political life pursue and protect . I assure the hon . Gentleman that we will always seek to protect the peace that so many people have work so hard to bring . rwandan Foreign Affairs Minister Biruta have say tonight : " without lawful behaviour by the UK , Rwanda would not be able to continue with the Migration and Economic Development Partnership . " without lawful behaviour , Home Secretary ? it be be report in the press that the Rwandan Government be get cold foot because this deal be too toxic for they . be that the case ? no . the Home Secretary want we to take great comfort from the fact that the treaty with Rwanda will be bind in international law . then , in the next page of his statement , he assure we that next week he will bring in legislation that will , in certain circumstance , make it a legal requirement for british court to act contrary to that same international law . how can he expect Rwanda to comply with its treaty obligation when his Government will pick and choose what treaty they comply with and what treaty they tear up ? we will absolutely remain in compliance with international law . the Home Secretary have use some choice language in this place , and in recent time he associate a particular favourite word of his to his own Government ' s Rwanda policy . what specific change have be make for he to become such a robust defender of it now ? I be not quite sure what the point of that question be , Mr Deputy Speaker . if the hon . Gentleman really wish for I to do so , I can clarify the point I make that he refer to , but I suspect that he do not really want I to . in her personal statement this afternoon , the former Home Secretary , the right hon . and learn Member for Fareham ( Suella Braverman ) , say that she have be unable to obtain the support of other Government Departments for her preferred method of deal with applicant for asylum . she say : " we must build Nightingale - style detention facility to deliver the necessary capacity … the only way to do this … be with the support of the Ministry of Defence . " Russia be on manoeuvre , more than 20 , 000 british troop be be deploy across northern Europe next year , and the Conservative Government be seek to shrink the Army to 73 , 000 . do the Home Secretary , who be the Foreign Secretary last month , think that our armed force should be train for war or for kettle asylum seeker into camp ? again , I be not at all sure how that question have anything to do with the proposal that we have put forward , but the hon . Gentleman will know that this party of Government will always support strong defence of this nation , unlike the opposition party . it be clear to the country that the Government be rive with division and chaos on this issue . some still think that these plan be batshit , and some think that they do not go far enough , include the Immigration Minister , who have resign . in an early answer today — order . do the hon . member just swear ? no , he quote the Home Secretary ! order . please use other word . okay . in an early answer , the Home Secretary say that the Immigration Minister would be attend the Home Affairs Committee next Wednesday . give that he have be embarrass by his own team today , who will now be attend the Committee to take question on this issue ? will it be he ? it will be the Immigration Minister . thank you very much for your statement , Home Secretary , and for answer question for well over an hour . on a point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . Accuracy be incredibly important in this House , and I would not want something incorrect to be on the record . the Home Secretary say in his statement : " other country have since copy our plan with Rwanda " . I can find no evidence that that be accurate . can you advise on this point of accuracy , Mr Deputy Speaker , because no country be copy the plan with Rwanda ? far to that point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . a number of country be explore third - country — so it be not true . I ' m sorry ? " explore " be not " copy " . a number of country be explore third - country asylum processing . the example that spring most rapidly to mind be Italy ' s relationship with Albania . far to that point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . on a point of accuracy , those who be be move to Albania will be under italian law . that be not the case in the Rwanda plan . we will now move on . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Plant Health that the draft Plant Health etc . ( Miscellaneous Fees ) ( amendment ) ( England ) Regulations 2023 , which be lay before this House on 26 October , in the last session of Parliament , be approve . — ( Aaron Bell . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Retained EU Law Reform that the draft Employment Rights ( Amendment , Revocation and Transitional Provision ) Regulations 2023 , which be lay before this House on 7 November , be approve . — ( Aaron Bell . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Financial Services and Markets that the draft Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 ( Financial Promotion ) ( Amendment ) ( no . 2 ) Order 2023 , which be lay before this House on 7 November , be approve . — ( Aaron Bell . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Financial Services and Markets that the draft Financial Services and Markets Act 2023 ( Benchmarks and Capital Requirements ) ( Amendment ) Regulations 2023 , which be lay before this House on 7 November , be approve . — ( Aaron Bell . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Financial Services and Markets that the draft Financial Services and Markets Act 2023 ( Consequential Amendments ) Regulations 2023 , which be lay before this House on 7 November , be approve . — ( Aaron Bell . ) question agree to . Bank profit : Windfall Tax Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Aaron Bell . ) today I be call on the Government to introduce a windfall tax on the bank , which have exploit the cost of live crisis to make super - profit , just as the energy company do before they . such a tax could create much - need fund to invest in our public service and to help bail out those hit hard by the ongoing economic crisis . before I make the case for that , however , I want to look at where we be after 13 year of Tory misrule . british economic growth be recently downgrade again . Britain have now see well over a decade of economic stagnation . we be live through the large fall in living standard since record begin 75 year ago . this will be the first Parliament in history in which people be poor at the end of it than at the beginning . what a record ! wage be set to be no high in 2028 than they be 20 year before . that be the slow wage growth in 200 year , and it have cost the average worker £ 10 , 700 a year in lose pay growth . shockingly , 9 million young worker have never work in an economy where they have see sustained average wage rise . income inequality in the UK be high than in any other large european country . we have a much weak economy and much low living standard . that be the record of the Government ' s agenda of austerity , deep public service cut and trickle - down economic . they have create a social nightmare , too . fourteen million people live in poverty , include over 4 million child . one in seven people be face hunger , and 6 million household be in fuel poverty . as the cost of living crisis continue to hit family across the UK , this should be a time to bail they out . it should be a time of public investment to boost economic growth and living standard , and to rescue our public service . instead , the Government be plot another £ 20 billion - worth of cut to public spending . I can not think of a single policy that would cause more economic and social harm . when we talk of a worsen economic and social crisis , we can not forget the class politic of it all : how it affect the 99 % and how it affect the 1 % . we hear a lot about the cost of living crisis , but it be not a crisis for the elite . for they , it have be boom time . there have never be so many UK billionaire , and british billionaire have increase their wealth by £ 120 million every single day over the past decade . the profit of the UK ' s large company be now 89 % high than before the pandemic . banker ' bonus have hit record high . boss ' pay at the large 100 company have be go up and up , and have increase by 16 % in the past year . one sector that have be do very well out of the crisis be bank . just like the oil and gas company , the bank have use the crisis to line their pocket . while million of people struggle to pay their mortgage and rent , the bank have be cash in . high interest rate have enable they to charge household more for mortgage and firm more for loan , but those high interest rate have not be pass on to saver . I commend the hon . gentleman for bring forward the debate ; I speak to he beforehand . do he not agree that the closure of high - street bank — there have be some 11 in my constituency of Strangford — especially in rural community , have leave a massive problem of rural isolation and that there should be a windfall tax on the bank make profit , with that money route to the rural community who have feel the brunt of the bank ' thirst for enhanced profit over service , which seem to be their calling card ? the hon . Member make an important point . the example he give of the closure of so many high - street bank , which disadvantage people in my community as well as in rural community , just go to show that the bank ' huge increase in profit have not be achieve through deliver a well service to consumer at all . high interest rate have not be pass on to saver ; they have be hoard by the bank , create a windfall for they of many billion for do nothing productive . such a transfer from the public to bank would be unjustifiable at any time , but it be especially so when so many people be struggle to cover the essential and our public service be on their knee due to Tory cut . the bank should face the same type of tax on their unearned and underserved windfall as the energy company . the pre - tax profit of the big four bank — Lloyds , Barclays , HSBC and NatWest — show why that would be a just tax . in the first nine month of 2023 , they make a staggering £ 41 billion in pre - tax profit , which be almost double the £ 23 billion they make in the same period last year , accord to research by Unite the union . the question we must answer be this : will we allow the Government to claim that more austerity and cut be inevitable and that public investment be unaffordable , or be we to build a well tax system that focus on make the wealthy pay their fair share ? on that point about a well tax system , my understanding be that business like certainty and that bank , like business , need to be able to predict the future fiscal regime , but early this year this Conservative Government cut the bank surcharge from 8 % to 3 % . so rather than a one - off windfall tax , would it not be well to reinstate the bank surcharge at 2016 level , reinstate the bank levy at its previous rate from early this year and so have an additional £ 18 billion for his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs between now and 2027 ? the hon . Member make a valuable intervention . I will come to how it be unjustifiable for the Government to reduce the surcharge in that way . both approach be possible and desirable , with yes , a windfall tax , but also reverse that cut . if we build a fairer , well tax system that focus on make the wealthy pay their fair share , we can invest in rebuild the economy so that it serve the majority of people , we can invest in renew our public service , and we can give people back some hope . a windfall tax on unexpected and undeserved bank profit can play an important role in create that fair tax system . bank be not reinveste their profit in the economy ; they be hand out huge pay and bonus , which could go even high , aid and abet by the Government ' s decision to scrap the bonus cap . that all come at a time when the bank be turn their back on local community . as the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) mention , bank branch have be disappear from our high street at an alarming rate . since 2015 , almost 6 , 000 branch have permanently close their door . at a time of deepen social crisis , while bank collect record profit , they have make it even more difficult for work people to access their finance and get financial advice . do the hon . Member not feel that there be something immoral about bank make high profit , closing branch and see their profit margin actually grow , while people be be leave disadvantaged ? there be something immoral about that . People be be disadvantaged , while other be make more . the hon . Gentleman be completely correct : there be something immoral about the way that bank ' profit be soar while they be not deliver a well service for their customer , particularly vulnerable customer — the less affluent , the disabled and the elderly . that be not how we should be go about thing , and he make an important moral case . base on the late quarterly result , a windfall tax in the UK could raise between £ 4 billion and £ 16 billion this year from the profit of the big four bank alone , depend on the form that that windfall tax take . that be billion of pound that could be use to boost public investment and to tackle the soar inequality that we be face . Spain ' s progressive Government offer we an example . they introduce a 4 . 8 % windfall levy on certain bank income and commission above a threshold of € 800 million . replicate that here could raise almost £ 4 billion this year . even Margaret Thatcher introduce a form of windfall tax , with a 2 . 5 % tax on bank ' non - interest - bear deposit . in word that sound all too familiar today , Thatcher say that the bank have " make their large profit as a result of our policy of high interest rate rather than because of increase efficiency or well service to the customer . " such a tax in the UK , accord to Positive Money calculation , could raise up to £ 11 billion today , and a windfall tax , in whatever from , would be popular . accord to a poll commission for the TUC , three quarter of the public support a windfall tax on bank ' excess profit , include 76 % of people who vote conservative in 2019 . perhaps the simple move — we hear this in an early intervention — would be to reverse the tax break for bank that the Government introduce in last year ' s autumn statement . they slash the bank profit surcharge from 8 % to 3 % , say that this be to cushion they against the impact of high corporation tax rate . but this surcharge , along with the banking levy , be one of the special taxis raise on bank after the financial crash due to the great risk that bank pose to our wide economic stability . the risk they pose clearly still remain and so too should the surcharge . the TUC general secretary , Paul Nowak , rightly describe the slashing of the surcharge as starve our public service of much - need fund at the bad possible time . reverse it could provide key fund to , for example , introduce universal free school meal , scrap the two - child cap or fund a proper pay raise for junior doctor . the TUC estimate that the Treasury will lose at least £ 1 . 5 billion a year over the next four year , although it believe that it be likely to be more give the recent boost to bank profit . positive Money estimate that reverse cut to both the bank surcharge and the levy could raise more than £ 4 billion this year . we need to be clear about this : it be a political choice for the Prime Minister to slash the surcharge on the bank just as it be a political choice to scrap the cap on banker ’ bonus . do so be a sign of what be so wrong in our current taxation system . it be clear that more of the same Tory dogma of the past 13 year of cut and trickle - down economic be not the answer . all that that would succeed in do be deepen the social crisis that be harm so many family in Britain . it be time that we put a stop to that . it be time to tackle the tax perk hand to the wealthy . the bank be bail out when they be in trouble during the 2007 global financial crisis . it be now time for they to be tax fairly to help bail out community that be suffer because of the Tory party ' s focus on build an economy that serve the wealthy few while the vast majority fall ever far behind . a windfall tax on bank profit be a just policy , it be economically sound and it would be welcome by people across this country . I look forward to the Minister ' s response . I congratulate the hon . member for Leeds East ( Richard Burgon ) on secure this debate . he be an assiduous attender in the House , he care a lot about these issue and I respect he deeply . in particular , I love his conversion , like that of his very good friend the Leader of the Opposition , to quote and love Margaret Thatcher . I can not wait to hear the report of how that go down when he visit his local Labour party at the end of the week . I be pleased that this debate provide I with an opportunity to set out the measure that the Government have already take to ensure that bank make a fair and sustainable tax contribution , but before I get on to that , I can not resist deal with some of the point that the hon . Gentleman make about the economic context in which this country find itself . he mention economic growth . it be important that he recognise that when they assess the autumn statement that the Chancellor recently deliver to the House , the Office for Budget Responsibility and independent forecaster say that the pro - growth measure it contain represent the large boost to economic growth over the forecast period of any fiscal event in a generation . I think the hon . Gentleman say that austerity and public sector cut be somehow inevitable , and that somehow the Treasury , Chancellor and Government feel that that be a good thing . we completely reject that characterisation . all I would say be that borrow an extra £ 28 billion , as propose by his Front - Bench team and the shadow Chancellor — I do not know whether it be the hon . Gentleman ' s idea or proposal — will end up raise inflation and raise interest rate , which be what make austerity and cut more likely . let I deal with the real substance of the hon . Gentleman ' s remark on the bank and a windfall tax . first , it be important to highlight that financial and related professional service be a vital part of the UK economy . they employ nearly 2 . 5 million people , two third of they outside London . indeed , I be sure that the hon . Gentleman have many member of Leeds ' thrive financial and professional service sector in his constituency . as I lay out to thecityuk ' s national conference early this month , I be committed to deliver the Chancellor ' s vision for a financial service sector that be open , sustainable , innovative and competitive , while also act — this be very important — in the interest of community , people and citizen all across our four nation . I urge the hon . gentleman to consider my view and the Government ' s view that such ambition do not contradict each other ; rather , it be the UK ' s globally competitive financial service sector that support job throughout this country and underpin access to finance — for individual if they want to buy a home , for household , for business that need to borrow to expand and invest , and for consumer throughout the country . before we consider the potential merit of a bank windfall tax , I want to reflect on some of the big picture in respect of the health of the UK banking sector as a whole . we should be encourage to see a strong , well - capitalise and competitive banking sector in the UK , in no small part owe to the significant regulatory and market reform that have be implement since the global financial crisis . bank be the most important source of credit , provide individual and business with the financial resource to succeed . for example , in 2022 bank lend a total of £ 65 . 1 billion to small and medium - sized business , which make up the majority of business in our country , and help 370 , 000 first - time buyer on to the property ladder . that illustrate that these institution be not in the pocket of fat cat ; they serve the nation . they serve ordinary work people and early - stage entrepreneur and businesspeople . in addition , the retail saving market currently offer a range of competitive option to saver , who can now access the high rate in recent year on a variety of instant - access and fix - term product . the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) and for Leeds East bring up the issue of bank branch , and I share their view that we need to maintain access to cash for rural community . indeed , the hon . member for Leeds East will see from I and this government that we believe we should speed up and spread banking hub throughout as many of our community as possible . I open one of those banking hub a fortnight ago in Axminster . I agree with the Minister that it be fantastic to see those facility and I know my constituent be very grateful . when will we see the opening of the next tranche , such as a banking hub for Sidmouth ? this be a rolling programme . we be try to speed it up and in due course there will , of course , be change and update to it . it be equally important that bank make an equitable and sustainable tax contribution , and the Government have take significant step since 2010 to ensure that . first , as the hon . member for Leeds East know , we introduce the bank levy in the wake of the financial crisis . it be design to encourage bank to move away from risky funding model and ensure that they make a fair contribution . the levy have raise vital revenue to help fund the public service we all rely on — over £ 28 billion so far — and , long after the financial crisis , it continue to bring in over £ 1 billion a year . secondly , in 2016 we introduce the bank corporation tax surcharge . bank currently pay an additional 3 % rate of tax on their profit , which , when combine with standard corporation tax , mean that bank pay more tax on their profit — we would not know it from the hon . Gentleman ' s speech — than most other business , and a high overall rate than when the surcharge be at 8 % . the surcharge have raise over £ 13 billion and continue to bring in over £ 1 . 3 billion a year . we have also take action to prevent bank from claim tax relief on loss incur during the financial crisis or on compensation payment for payment protection insurance and other case of misconduct . this money be the public ' s money . these measure help to support the need and ambition of our country ' s citizen when it be appropriate for the state to do so . I know that that be why the hon . Gentleman be so keen to see a windfall tax introduce . I share his concern for support the interest of his fellow citizen , but the measure I have outline demonstrate how the Government already ensure that bank make a fair and sustainable tax contribution . have outline how our current approach have generate significant tax revenue for the UK , I want to conclude by turn to how deviating from the approach I have set out — for example , by adopt a windfall tax as the hon . Gentleman suggest — would carry significant risk for the health and competitiveness of our banking sector , which in and of itself would be a significant risk for the health and competitiveness of our economy . a jurisdiction ' s overall tax burden clearly inform decision make by internationally active bank about where to operate . it be also clear that other international financial centre , which be our competitor , recognise that too . I want to be very clear that a high level of bank taxation in the UK would significantly worsen our competitive position in relation to key global financial hub in the US , Asia and Europe . it would have a threefold negative impact . first , it would put exist job at risk . secondly , it would damage the chance of future job be create through new activity be set up . finally , rather than raise significant yield for the Exchequer , I fear that it would have the opposite effect ; it would jeopardise the considerable tax revenue that be already generate by the banking sector . the banking sector ' s contribution to the UK ' s economy should not be underestimate . the amount of tax pay by bank be rightly proportionate to that contribution . let I be clear : the Government still maintain that the sector should continue to make a fair and sustainable tax contribution . we have take step since 2010 to ensure that . it be no contradiction to say that we need a strong and competitive banking sector that support individual , household and business , because that have foundational importance to our economy . question put and agree to . House adjourn .