Speaker ' s statement before we start today ' s business , I want to note that today be Holocaust Memorial Day . I know that the whole House will agree with I about the importance of remembering , especially on the 80th anniversary , the 6 million jewish people murder during the Holocaust , alongside the million of other people kill as a result of nazi persecution , as well as those kill in more recent genocide — Cambodia , Rwanda , Bosnia and Darfur . I know that colleague will want to join I in thank the Holocaust Memorial Day Trust for the important work it do . oral Answers to Questions Education the Secretary of State be ask — Free School Meals what assessment she have make of the potential merit of introduce free school meal for all primary school pupil . our Government be drive an agenda to break down barrier to opportunity and reduce child poverty . around £ 1 . 5 billion be spend annually on free lunch for over 3 million pupil . this include all child from reception through to year 2 , and we have commit to introduce free breakfast club in state - fund primary school . as with all programme , we will keep our approach under continued review . Knowsley , an area in my constituency , have the high proportion of obese and overweight child in England , accord to NHS datum . Knowsley council ' s director of public health recently describe to I how this be an issue of poverty and deprivation . we know from research into universal free school meal in London that such a policy can reduce obesity rate by up to 10 % . early this month , I get unanimous support from the council when I suggest that Knowsley could be a perfect test bed for the roll - out of universal free school meal . will the Minister meet I and the leader of Knowsley council to discuss that possibility ? over 13 , 000 pupil in Knowsley be support with a healthy and nutritious free meal at lunch time through the Department ' s free school meal and universal infant free school meal programme . unlike the conservative party , we be on the side of parent in make a child - centre government a reality . my hon . friend be a real champion on these matter , and I be happy to meet he to discuss they far . because the previous Government widen eligibility , one in three child could get a free school meal in 2024 , compare with one in six in 2010 . that be despite the fact that 600 , 000 few child be grow up in workless household and that the proportion of people on low pay have halve . will the Minister commit that this Government will maintain those level of eligibility ? the Department recognise the valuable role that free school meal play and encourage all parent eligible for the entitlement offer . we will continue to review our approach and take a consistent approach go forward . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . both in government and in opposition , the liberal Democrats have a proud record of championing free school meal for all those who need they . however , even today , too many child from some of the poor eligible family be miss out . Lib Dem - lead Durham county council have automatically enrol child for free school meal this academic year , result in over 2 , 500 additional child get a meal at lunch time , and an extra £ 3 million in pupil premium funding for the county . will Ministers finally commit to automatically enrol all eligible child in England ? the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill be the perfect opportunity to do so . as I mention , we will keep our approach in all Government programme , include eligibility for free school meal , under continued review . we be aware of local measure on auto - enrolment be trialle and be supportive of the overall aim of such scheme . sixth - form college : Pay Award if her Department will provide sixth - form college with the funding require to support a 5 . 5 % pay award for teach staff . the Government do not set or recommend pay in further education . however , in the midst of tough decision take at the Budget to fix the foundation , after have be leave with a £ 22 billion black hole by the Conservatives , we have reprioritise an additional £ 300 million for further education . I declare an interest , because my husband work at Luton sixth - form college , although this question do not affect he . I be proud to have Luton sixth - form college and Barnfield college in my constituency — place where young people develop not only their education but their ambition . excellent sixth form stay that way only by attract and retain the good staff . however , with the funding shortfall leave by the last Tory Government , I be concerned that it be our young generation who will feel the loss . will the Minister outline how sixth - form college can use their fund to deliver the deserved 5 . 5 % pay rise for teaching staff ? I recognise the vital role that sixth - form college play , include Luton sixth - form college , and I agree that high - quality staff be what help to make they great , as well as our amazing student . that be why we announce an additional £ 300 million for further education in the Budget , and it be why we be release £ 50 million of that funding in this academic year , so that college can respond to priority , include workforce recruitment and retention , and use those fund as they see fit . balcarra school in my constituency have calculate that if its funding for its sixth form have increase by just 2 % over the past 15 year , it would now have more than £ 650 , 000 extra to keep its school run . the head warn I that the sector be now at break point . do Ministers recognise what be go on in the sector after the year of underfunding we have have ? I reiterate that the one - off £ 50 million grant will enable college to respond to current priority and challenge as they see fit , include workforce recruitment and retention . it be up to those college and sixth form to choose how to use that funding to good meet learner ' need . I invite the hon . member to write in if he would like some further information . I call the shadow Minister . the hon . member for Luton North ( Sarah Owen ) have ask a very important question . the Government fund the pay award for school and academise sixth - form college but , unlike last year , not for stand - alone sixth - form college . that decision have already lead to seven day of industrial action . after threat of judicial review , the Department for Education offer some additional funding , but only £ 7 million of the £ 19 million that be need . that funding gap have lead to a pay gap , and as a result the National Education Union have more strike plan and the NASUWT be also ballot . what be the Government ' s plan to end the dispute and end the damage that be be do to those student ? the hon . Member will know that industrial relation be a matter for sixth - form college themselves , in co - ordination with the sector - lead national bargaining arrangement through the national joint council . we encourage open and constructive dialogue by all party in the good interest of staff and student during this critical transition period . read in Schools what step her Department be take to encourage read in school . get more child read for pleasure be a key part of our plan for change , and of our work to drive high and rise standard across education by give all our child the good start in life . early this month , I be pleased to join the Prime Minister as he unveil a landmark partnership between school here in the UK and in Ukraine , base on the power of reading and back by legendary child ' s author include Michael Morpurgo . accord to the Libraries for Primaries campaign , one in seven state primary school in the UK lack a dedicated library or read space , and that figure rise to one in four in the most disadvantaged community . as we know , read for pleasure be essential to a child ' s academic success and mental wellbeing . thousand of primary school still need library . do the Minister agree that library be vital for child development , and what further step can the Government take to ensure that every primary school have a library ? my hon . friend be absolutely right about the power of reading . we all know that reading broaden horizon and nurture creativity , and I want more child to experience that joy , although sadly , we also know that more and more child in our country be not enjoy read for pleasure . under the Tories , one in four child be leave primary school without meet the expect standard in reading ; it be little wonder that they be unable to enjoy read in the way they should . through our plan for change , we will drive high and rise standard to make that a reality . do the Secretary of State accept that the use of phonic as the basis of teaching reading have be thoroughly vindicate ? I do accept the absolutely essential role of phonic — it be a Labour Government who first start the roll - out of phonic in 2006 . we need all our child to reach a brilliant standard in reading , but as I have just say , one in four currently do not meet the require standard . there be so much more that we need to do to ensure that all our child get a firm foundation in those subject and , yes , enjoy read as well . I call the shadow Secretary of State . we know that smartphone in the classroom have a negative impact on read and on the educational attainment of child in general . when in government , we issue guidance to try to ban smartphone from the classroom , but the late evidence be clear that they be still far too prevalent in school . to fix the problem , the guidance need to be put on a statutory footing . do the Education Secretary agree that child ' s educational outcome be negatively affect by smartphone , and if she do , will she back our amendment to ban they from the classroom for good ? I agree that phone have no place in the classroom . it be entirely right that school take firm action to stop their use , and I know that be what the vast majority of school already do . as the right hon . Lady say , last July the Conservatives say that they do not need to legislate in this area . nothing have change in this time . I back the approach that they take in July in this area . this be yet another headline - grab gimmick , with no plan to drive up standard in our school . Artificial Intelligence : Research and Development what discussion she have have with Cabinet colleague on support for artificial intelligence research and development in the high education sector . the Labour Government be at the forefront of change and , as I say to the Bett conference last week , we be determined to ensure that " AI will be a positive , radical , modernise force for good in the life of work people . " the Department for Education be a member of the AI working group collaborate across Government to share thinking and expertise as we develop future policy . many of my constituent and local academic have express concern about the cancellation last year , by this Government , of what would have be the UK ' s only exascale computer , at Edinburgh University . that be not mention at all in the AI opportunitie action plan . it would have be a major beneficial development in this sector . what discussion be the Secretary of State have with Cabinet colleague to ensure that this take place , and can she reassure the public that the benefit of AI will be spread to university across the UK ? I appreciate the hon . Lady ' s interest in this area . she will know that the propose exascale supercomputer be one programme that the Government be consider . we be currently assess the good way to take this forward . the previous programme be announce under the last government , for which full funding be not allocate . we be committed to develop a strategy set out a 10 - year plan for our country ' s need . that plan will be publish in the come month alongside the spending review , but I will ensure that official in the Department for Science , Innovation and Technology pick up her concern and that she receive a full response . Clinical Academics what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to help retain clinical academic in university . as autonomous institution , university be responsible for their staffing decision , include recruitment and retention . where the Tories leave university on the brink , we have act decisively to secure the future of the high education sector . we remain committed to restore university as engine of growth , opportunity and aspiration . the number of clinical academic be in worrying decline . these be the people who teach our doctor in university and be conduct groundbreake research . consultant clinical academic ' contract with university give they pay parity with the NHS . however , the university do not have the funding to match the cost of the new NHS pay structure for consultant . I have hear that , unable to retain they , 20 out of 26 medical school in the country be offer voluntary redundancy to their staff , and sometimes not voluntary . do the Minister agree that we must do all we can to support medical education and research in this country ? I be aware that my hon . friend have extensive knowledge in this area , and I seek to reassure he that the Government recognise the vital role that clinical academic play in research and education in the NHS . although university be independent and therefore responsible for decision on pay , we be commit to work closely with education partner to ensure that clinical academia remain an attractive career choice for all , include student from disadvantaged background . the new Pears medical school at the University of Cumbria and the Lancaster University medical school , among other , be struggle to recruit and retain medical academic staff , in no small part due to the last government ' s somewhat masochistic decision to undermine one of Britain ' s good export : namely , the income we receive from overseas student . will the Minister undo this nonsense and allow Britain ' s brilliant university , especially the medical school , to help boost the quest for economic growth ? student be incredibly important to our university , and we have some world - lead university . I will ask my hon . friend in the other place to respond to the hon . Gentleman ' s question . Family Hubs : Kent what step her Department have take to help keep family hub open in Kent . labour ' s plan for change will get a record share of child ready for school , hit key developmental target by the age of five . family hub will play a crucial part in that . we be invest £ 69 million in family hub , target support where the money will make the big difference to child ' s life chance . in Deal , Blossom child ' s centre have be close , and the new merged service do not offer the level of service require for one to four - year - old and be not fit for purpose . what can be do to reopen that much - love and sorely miss community asset ? local authority must engage with family to co - design service and ensure that those service meet their need . we be invest £ 126 million in family hub , start for Life , and through our plan for change . this Government aim to get a record proportion of child hit key developmental target by the age of five . if my hon . friend would like to write to I on any particular issue , I would be happy to take it up . departmental official be aware of the case he raise and be work with Kent county council to continue to deliver service . rise — I have not realise that Strangford be in Kent . the issue be in Kent and in Strangford , Mr Speaker . the Minister be right to respond on the importance of disability and family hub in Kent , and in Northern Ireland we have a commitment to the very same process . have she have an opportunity to discuss the way forward here with those in Northern Ireland , so that we can share experience and the good way ? do the Minister wish to answer that question , because it be definitely not link ? I assure the hon . member that the Secretary of State have have such conversation and will continue to do so . SEND Provision what step her Department be take to support school require specialist facility for SEND student . what step her Department be take to improve support for child with special educational need and disability . what step her Department be take to improve special educational need provision . what progress she have make on improve support for child with SEND . what step she be take to improve SEND service . this topic be of interest to many colleague across the House . the previous Conservative Education Secretary label the special educational need and disability system that she leave behind as " lose , lose , lose " , and the shadow Minister say that the previous Government should " hang their head " in shame over their record . just last week , a Schools Minister of 10 year say that they have " let down " thousand of child . we agree wholeheartedly . that be the system we inherit , but there be light at the end of the tunnel as this Labour Government work hard to reform and improve the system . some 52 % of student at Dorset Studio school in my constituency have special educational need , which be well above the national average , and 11 % be in receipt of education , health and care plan . a funding agreement between the Treasury and the Department for Education in February 2023 to upgrade the school ' s facility , include a new school hall , a canteen and specialist teaching facility , aim to bring the school up to purpose , yet there have be no progress since May 2024 . will the Minister outline what step the Department will take to get the ball rolling ? if she do not know , will she please meet I so that we can get thing start as soon as possible ? I appreciate the hon . Gentleman ' s question and his concern about make advancement . improve capital provision for child with special educational need and disability be a priority for this Government , which be why we have allocate £ 740 million of additional investment to create those additional place in mainstream and special school . I be more than happy to look at the case he raise — indeed , it might also be for the Under - Secretary of State for Education , my hon . friend the Member for Portsmouth South ( Stephen Morgan ) , to look at . in Oxfordshire , the high need of our accumulate deficit be expect to rise to £ 77 . 1 million by the end of 2025 , and across England it be expect to rise to nearly £ 6 billion in the same period . do the Minister agree that , in the long term , a shift towards inclusive education , early intervention and enhanced support in mainstream school be essential to create a sustainable and effective system that meet the need of all child and young people , and will she commit to deliver it ? the hon . Gentleman ask an important question , and we absolutely need to see a more inclusive mainstream system with an education , health and care plan process that get child with special educational need and disability the support they need . by do so , we will improve the mainstream inclusivity of our school . as I have outline , we have allocate capital funding for that , but we be look at reform on a range of level to ensure that child can be educate in their local community as far as be possible . I draw attention to my declaration in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . since I be elect , I have hear countless time from parent across Broxbourne that the special educational need system be too difficult to navigate and all too often just do not work . what action be the Minister take to improve the confidence of parent in the SEN system ? I recognise the story that the hon . Gentleman tell . indeed , it be tell by many family up and down the country . he should recognise that this legacy be leave by the last Conservative Government for many family and many child , let they down . we be work incredibly hard to reform our system with a curriculum and assessment review , with capital investment and by work with local authority to improve the education , health and care plan process and the timeliness of assessment . we will continue to do that to clean up the mess . I recognise what my hon . Friend say : she have inherit an appalling situation from the last government . a recent Public Accounts Committee report bear that out . can she give a little more information on how she will reduce the number of family not get timely assessment ? how will she address the doubling of demand for assessment ? my hon . friend be right to refer to the worrying finding of the Public Accounts Committee on the situation we be in . as she rightly identify , it be our ambition that all child receive the right support to succeed , where possible within mainstream school . that will need education , health and care plan to be process more effectively , but also for mainstream school in and of themselves to be support to become inclusive , so that child and their family be not leave wait . that will help to reduce the cost of transport , because far too many child be be transport to other local authority over great distance and time , as they can not be educate locally . all these measure will not only drive down the challenge for family , but get much well outcome for the money be spend . at a recent surgery , a constituent tell I that she have fight Tory - lead Hertfordshire county council to carry out an EHCP assessment for her son for well over a year . since it conclude , she have be force to go to tribunal six time in the past two year . she inform I that she meet resistance from the school and the council throughout . after year of neglect by not only the previous Conservative Government , but conservative local council , I welcome the step the Government be take to reform the SEND system . what assurance can the Minister give to my constituent and other in Hemel that EHCP assessment will be a priority ? I be sorry to hear what my hon . Friend say about his constituent . we need to see education , health and care plan assessment progress more promptly , and we need to ensure that plan be issue as quickly as possible , so that child can begin to benefit from the support . the Department be work closely with local authority that have issue with timeliness . there be , without doubt , a lot more to do , but we be determined to improve the situation for child and their family . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . there be child with special educational need and disability in every school across the country . often , they face unacceptable barrier to participation , include school building that be not inclusive or fully accessible . what be the Minister do , as part of the Government ' s welcome commitment to inclusive mainstream school , to ensure that all expenditure by the Department for Education on new school building and building refurbishment help to make school more inclusive ? my hon . friend raise an important point . we want every teacher to be a SEND teacher and every school to be an inclusive school . we be make progress by invest £ 1 billion into SEND , and £ 740 million into create more inclusive specialist place in mainstream school and undertake the adaptation that may be require in mainstream school to make they more accessible . child safeguard what step she be take to strengthen safeguarding for child . the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill be the single big piece of child protection legislation in a generation . it will stop more child fall through the crack through landmark reform — no more empty word but real action to keep child safe . it be a shame that the Conservative Opposition have play silly game on this subject . last week , the Leader of the opposition dismiss safeguard measure in the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill as a distraction . [ interruption . ] order . Mr Timothy , you have be a bit loud recently , and I be sure you do not want an early cup of tea today . after the tragic case of Star Hobson , Arthur Labinjo - Hughes and Sara Sharif , will the Secretary of State remind Opposition Members why those measure be vital if we be to protect child ? opposition Members might not like it , but that be what the Leader of the opposition say . the Conservatives have 14 year to stop vulnerable child fall through the crack . now be the time for action — no more empty word or lesson learn . Labour have bring forward the single big piece of child protection legislation in a generation , but the Conservatives refuse to back it . to label the measure a distraction be a new low . I encourage the shadow Secretary of State to distance herself from those shocking remark . the Secretary of State should consider what she just say . the Bill have specific clause about home schooling . I know that the Labour Government do not like any form of education that be not in state - run , local authority school , but those who home school have significant concern that the Bill will put unfair burden on they and will change the relationship between those who be lawfully and legally educate their child at home and the state . will she meet home schooling representative to discuss their concern and to ensure that while the Bill contain the relevant safeguarding , those who home school be make to feel that they be contribute to their child ' s welfare ? parent who choose to home educate their child be within their right to do so . those who provide a safe , love environment and a good standard of education have nothing to be concern about in the legislation . we be concerned about the grow number of child of whom we simply have no visibility . the Bill will ensure that where there be serious concern about child protection and safeguarding , such as where a section 47 investigation be under way , the local authority must consent to home education . I be stagger that the hon . Gentleman find those straightforward measure to keep child safe such an outrage . they be about protect child . SEND Provision what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to ensure that SEND provision be adequately fund . despite have to make tough decision at the Budget to fix the foundation , key education priority be protect . that be how we be able to provide a £ 1 billion high need budget to help local authority in school support young people with SEND . as I say , we inherit a lose - lose - lose system , but we be determined to reform it and restore parent ' trust . the Secretary of State and I regularly meet Ministers from other Departments on special educational need policy , to ensure that we take a whole of Government approach . every headteacher in Dorking have tell I that early intervention be vital for our special need child . the London Business School tell I that hire people with special educational need can be a source of competitive advantage for company . do the Minister agree that those principle could be the basis of a more financially sustainable and compassionate special educational need system , and could avoid tragedy such as that of my constituent Jennifer Chalkley , who tragically lose her life age 17 due to inadequate SEND provision ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his thoughtful question . we absolutely recognise the role of early year education in identify need and provide timely support . we have launch the new SEND assessment resource and child development training , and be identify and support communication need through the early language support for every child programme , along with NHS England . we will continue to work across Government to ensure that child with SEND get the right support at the right time . I be very sorry to hear the tragic circumstance of the case the hon . Gentleman outline . I draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . one of the big pressure on SEND funding in Stoke - on - Trent be the independent alternative provider that charge ten of thousand of pound for single place , often with huge profit margin for themselves . we be subject to a safety valve arrangement . could I therefore ask the Minister to meet a delegation of provider and teacher in Stoke - on - Trent , who be hungry for a new way of deliver SEND provision to ensure that our young child get the education they deserve ? my hon . friend be absolutely right about the challenge and pressure on the budget . I have identify the need to improve the situation with school transport by educate child locally and to provide more inclusive mainstream place . where special school place be require , we need to ensure they be in the right place and available for the child who need they . I would be happy to meet my hon . friend to hear the idea of his friend . free Speech what step she be take to support free speech in educational setting . it be a Labour Government who first enshrine freedom of expression in law , and Labour be to this day commit to freedom of speech and academic freedom . that be why we be press ahead with a robust , rigorous and workable high Education ( Freedom of Speech ) Act 2023 , and take common - sense decision in the national interest . unfortunately , a minority of teacher subscribe to the sort of dog - whistle , divisive politic sometimes hear from those on the Government Benches — and from those down here on the liberal Democrat Benches , by the way . this have put some child in Ashfield off express their own opinion during sensible debate in schooltime . do the Secretary of State agree that while in the classroom , teacher should remain politically neutral ? I have have the privilege of visit hundred of school across our country , and I can tell member that child in the school I visit be usually never backward in come forward with their opinion ; I would hope that be the case in the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency , too . of course , school have a duty to promote fundamental british value and be subject to long - stand legal duty that prohibit they from promote partisan political view . apprenticeship what step she be take to increase the number of apprenticeship . what plan she have for the future of apprenticeship . the Government have a mission to break down barrier to opportunity , and we want to rebalance opportunity in favour of young people who have the most to gain from apprenticeship . where start have fall by almost 40 % , we be introduce foundation apprenticeship to give more young people a foot in the door at the start of their work life . we be fortunate to have some great apprenticeship provider in Aylesbury , such as the Buckinghamshire College Group and Buckinghamshire New University . when I join pupil from the Grange school at their career fair , I see at first hand their excitement about the apprenticeship option on offer . we know that apprenticeship be a win - win for young people and for sector face recruitment challenge , such as health and social care and construction . what step be the Minister take to expand and strengthen apprenticeship , and to ensure that all young people who choose to go down that route be able to do so ? my hon . friend be a real champion for student at Buckinghamshire college , and indeed for young people across Aylesbury . I know the area she represent very well . after the Conservatives leave we with a collapse apprenticeship system and other skill shortage , Labour be listen to employer and redrawe the system through Skills England , a new growth and skill levy and new foundation apprenticeship . that be how we will unlock opportunity and drive growth . back in the autumn , the new Government announce plan to reduce the financial support available for level 7 apprenticeship . do the Secretary of State understand that curtail high - level apprenticeship will make it hard to access graduate - level skill and qualification in rural area such as North Devon , where there be no university nearby ? the Government have an extremely challenging fiscal inheritance and tough choice need to be take on how funding should be prioritise to generate opportunity for all . employer will still be able to offer and invest in level 7 apprenticeship where they feel they provide a good return on investment . we have take advice from Skills England , which engage with employer on funding for level 7 apprenticeship , over the autumn . the Department expect to make a final decision on affected apprenticeship shortly . I call the shadow Minister . the Government have say in answer to write question that they have a forecast for the number of apprenticeship but that they will not publish it for member to see , which be a shame . at the last oral question , the Secretary of State say it be still the Government ' s policy to allow employer to spend 50 % of their apprenticeship levy money on other thing . be not the reason the Government will not publish their forecast for the number of apprenticeship that their policy will lead to a sharp reduction in the number of people start apprenticeship ? we be very confident about what the Government be do with apprenticeship . our levy - fund growth and skill offer , with apprenticeship at the heart , will deliver great flexibility for learner and employer in England , align with our industrial strategy , create route into good skilled job in grow industry . as a first step , that will include short duration and foundation apprenticeship in target sector . Specialist Teachers : disabled Children what step she be take to ensure that disabled child have access to specialist teacher . high quality teaching be the most important in - school factor for improve outcome for all child , include those with disability . that be why we be commit to deliver our first step of recruit 6 , 500 new teacher to drive high and rise standard in our school in both mainstream and specialist setting . we be do that by bolster pay and condition , and restore teaching as a respected , expert profession . research in June 2023 find that only 56 % of teacher in mainstream school feel confident about support child with a special educational need or disability . today , that mean many child , include in my constituency , be still miss out on learn and leave school without the skill they need . do the Minister agree that we need more specialist teacher , include those for multisensory purpose and for child with visual impairment , to ensure every child have the opportunity to fulfil their potential ? all teacher be teacher of special educational need and disability . high quality teaching be central to ensure that pupil with SEND be give the good possible opportunity to achieve in their education . to support all teacher , we be implement high quality teacher training reform , which begin with initial teacher training and continue through early career training to middle and senior leadership . these change and reform will ensure that teacher have the skill to support all pupil to succeed , include those with SEND . on Friday , I have the opportunity to visit Manor Mead special school , where 60 member of staff look after the 92 pupil , many of whom have the most severe learning disability and autism . I be absolutely blow away by the care of the staff , and I be particularly grateful to be show around by the adorable Luchia , one of the pupil . will the Minister join I in thank all our special school teacher for the amazing commitment they show , and on Manor Mead ' s behalf , may I invite she to visit and see that work at first hand ? I thank the hon . gentleman for that question and for celebrate teacher , particularly in our special school but also throughout our school system , who work tirelessly day in , day out to support pupil , particularly those with special educational need and disability , to succeed . I will certainly take away his very kind invitation . National Insurance Contributions what assessment she have make of the potential impact of the National Insurance Contributions ( secondary Class 1 Contributions ) bill on the early year sector . as a government , we have have to take tough decision to get the public finance back on track . in 2025 - 26 , the entitlement budget will be over £ 8 billion , with a furth £ 75 million to support the sector in this pivotal expansion year . we have also announce the large ever uplift to the early year pupil premium . early year be central to our mission to give every child the good start in life . early year provider be be hammer . in many case , their national insurance cost per staff member be almost double . a large number be small business in the private sector , while other be school that be take child before they go into reception class . all of they — both primary school in the state sector and small private provider — be worried about the extra cost be impose on they . can the Minister assure my constituent and , indeed , people throughout the country that family will not face high cost and that those childcare place will still be there ? can he assure the House that we will have more childcare place at the end of this Parliament than we have at the start of it ? unlike the conservative party , we be on the side of work parent , and high - quality education will be available to every child . as for the hon . Gentleman ' s substantive point , it would help if the Conservatives be honest . they would not reverse the rise . I call the shadow Minister . the decision not to compensate nursery for the national insurance increase have already push provider " to the brink " , accord to the Early Years Alliance , and many in school , include school with nursery , be worried that they will be next . local council receive a bill of £ 1 . 8 billion as a result of the national insurance increase , but receive compensation for less than a third of that because the indirect cost be not cover . can the Minister reassure the House that compensation for the increase will cover all the cost to school , not just the direct cost ? the Government have announce that public sector employer will receive compensation for the increase in their national insurance contribution , include school - base nursery and maintain nursery school , but in line with the arrangement for other area , there will be no additional nic funding beyond that . early Learning Goals what step she be take to increase the number of child achieve the early learn goal . child grow up in our country deserve the good start in life — nothing less . through our plan for change , Labour will get a record share of child school - ready . we will make that a reality through open new school - base nursery , roll out childcare , early intervention , speech and language support , help for parent of child with special educational need and disability , and wide SEND reform . that be rightly ambitious , and we be determined to deliver it . as a jewish person , Mr Speaker , may I take this opportunity to thank you for everything you have do to help the House to remember my ancestor and those of other jewish people whom we remember today ? welcome funding be announce for Abram Bryn Gates school in Bamfurlong , in my constituency , in the last free school funding round , but the school have just be tell that that funding have be pause , possibly until 2028 . it be a really important school , because it provide support for kid to stay in mainstream education even when they have leave . when can my constituent expect a decision to be make on the funding for this school ? my hon . friend be right to raise that issue on behalf of his constituent . I would be more than happy to meet he to discuss it far . we be work rapidly through the whole free school pipeline to ensure that we be create place where they be require — that include specialist provision — and that there be a strong case and good value for the taxpayer . Topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . today mark the 80th anniversary of the liberation of Auschwitz - Birkenau . as the year slip away , our duty to remember only strengthen . I have have the privilege in recent month of listen to the powerful and deeply move testimony of Holocaust survivor in person , include Renee Salt and Mala Tribich . it be vital that the world hear their voice — hear what happen to they and their family , and what happen to 6 million jewish man , woman and child during the Holocaust . that be especially important give the shocking rise in antisemitic abuse that we have see since 7 October . the Government could not feel more strongly about this , which be why we have confirm that the Holocaust will be a compulsory topic in all school follow the completion of our curriculum and assessment review . I recently launch an exciting new reading initiative across Dover and Deal call Tapp into Reading . we tour the school and the child read theatrically from a ve day text . this will end in May , at a theatre . will the Education Secretary join the judging panel then ? that brilliant initiative show what a champion my hon . friend be for his constituent , and I will consider his request seriously . I would certainly be happy to visit his constituency soon and to work with he — perhaps also on how his local school might be able to join the UK - Ukraine school partnership programme , which be base on the power of reading . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I associate myself with the right hon . Lady ' s word on Holocaust Memorial Day . just today , another voice come out against the disastrous academy proposal in the Government ' s Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill . the Children ' s Commissioner say in a scathing letter that end the academy order to turn around fail school will mean " child spend long in fail school " . the Secretary of State ' s own Back Benchers have say that end the academy order would be a huge mistake and would weaken standard . instead of run all her policy past union , which be more interested in their own power than in teacher ' pay , will the Education Secretary listen to the Children ' s Commissioner , her own back Benchers and headteacher up and down the country when — Order . [ interruption . ] these be topical question . if the hon . Member want to ask long question , she should do so under a substantive question . it have get to be speedy — punchy question and sharp answer . member have to help I . it be a Labour Government who create the academy movement , and a Labour Government will ensure that they continue to flourish . the Conservative Government leave a thousand fail school that continue to let down more than 400 , 000 child year after year . we will intervene more rapidly and more effectively to turn that around . the opposition have nothing to say on school standard ; they be more interested in their own record than the good outcome for child . the Education Secretary do not understand that her Bill will make thing bad , not well . the legislation be in total chaos . at the Dispatch Box she say that pay will not be cap by the legislation , yet we now know that it will be . the Government can not even do a u - turn correctly . last week the Prime Minister tell the Leader of the Opposition to read the pay amendment , but five day later the Government have still not table it . can the Secretary of State tell I when it be go to come ? there be an awful lot in that but very little about how we deliver high standard for our child , and that be what the Bill be all about . the only people in hock to vest interest be the Conservatives — more interested in defend school uniform racketeer and the private school lobby than invest in our state school . widely accessible violent pornography be fuel a culture of extreme misogyny and the normalisation of sexual violence and be warp the perception and attitude of both young boy and girl to sex and healthy relationship . what step be the Secretary of State ' s Department take to encourage school to be proactive in combat the influence of online pornography and the harm experience by young people as a result ? I strongly agree with my hon . friend ' s concern , and I be determined to tackle the scourge of misogyny . she bring experience to this place — order . sorry about this , Secretary of State . please , Members have to sit down . they can not just remain stand up when the question be be answer . do we all understand ? great . my hon . friend bring real expertise to this matter from her experience in education . we be review the relationship , sex and health education guidance to ensure that school be able to teach what child need to know in the modern world . our school staff have a crucial role to play in tackle this issue as well . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . last week ' s National Audit Office report find £ 13 . 8 billion - worth of maintenance backlog in our school . with thousand of student who be take a - level and gcse study in school with crumble reinforce autoclave aerate concrete and the Joint Union Asbestos Committee warn that pupil and teacher face a tsunami of death after be expose to asbestos on the school estate , what urgent step be minister take to ensure that our child and school staff can focus on teaching and learning and not have to worry about whether they be safe ? the hon . Lady be absolutely right . far too often our staff have have to focus on maintenance and building rather than drive up standard in our school . the Conservatives talk about their record , but their record be child cower under steel prop because of the RAAC crisis that they leave behind . this morning I visit Cledford primary school in Middlewich to speak in their school assembly . during my visit , the headteacher proudly show I the school - base nursery that staff go above and beyond to get ready for the start of this term . will the Minister join I in congratulate Cledford on get the nursery up and run , and can he outline the role that school - base nursery will play in help child achieve their early learn goal ? high - quality childcare and early education be a crucial opportunity to transform life chance , but too often it be unavailable or unaffordable . that be why this Labour Government be commit to deliver additional place in new and expand school - base nursery . I congratulate my hon . friend ' s school on the work it be do . our plan will benefit child and parent with high - quality and accessible provision . the Government ' s decision to make school foot the bill for the teacher ' pay award be push many school close to the brink . as the head of Richard Challoner school in my constituency tell I , his and many other school be be force to consider severe cut to balance their budget . what support will the Secretary of State give school in those difficult circumstance ? I recognise the challenging context that many school experience after 14 year under the Conservatives . at the Budget , notwithstanding the severe challenge that we face , the Chancellor prioritise key education area , include make sure that we could deliver on that 5 . 5 % pay award for teacher that the last Government refuse to back . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . as a school governor , I recognise the importance of strong safeguarding measure to protect our child . will the Minister reassure I that rather than play politic on this issue or pander to extreme , the Government will remain laser - focused on improve safeguarding in our school ? protect child be a cross - government priority . although the devolve nation have their own safeguarding system , we will continue to work closely with they to ensure that safeguarding remain a priority and that we all engage with our school to see where we need to strengthen our safeguarding support . a severe shortage of specialist provision and a council in dire financial strait be leave child with severe level of need in my constituency make four - hour round trip to school and back every day , which be too much for many of they to cope with . what step be the Minister take , work with local Government to reduce such journey time for child who simply can not cope with they ? the hon . Lady raise a really important point . no child should struggle to get to school because of a lack of transport , and no child should have to travel great distance if there could be an inclusive and appropriate place for they at their local mainstream school . that be what we be determined to deliver for all child , both to ensure that they get the good opportunity and for their family . Springfield Training provide excellent opportunity in Leeds South West and Morley for young people not in work , training or education to do fulfil apprenticeship . I have see that in action myself . what be the Department do to support such organisation to get young people into work ? independent training provider be an important part of the post - 16 education landscape . they be fund to deliver the training that employer and learner need . that support our plan for a youth guarantee to ensure that every young person can earn and learn . Springfield Training contribute to that effort , govern by our contractual relationship with commercial provider . we know that early diagnosis be critical to effective SEND provision , but there be a national crisis in the number and availability of educational psychologist . give that Ofsted and the Care Quality Commission be jointly investigate Cambridgeshire SEND service , will the Minister meet I and the council to discuss the outcome and action from that ? I thank the hon . member for raise those matter . I would be happy to meet she to understand the issue in more detail . student at Sir Frederick Gibberd college in Harlow have be teach in marquee and portacabin for over a year after the previous Government waste £ 29 million on a building that have since be deem unsafe . what consideration will the Department give to support SFG college ? I thank pupil , teacher and school leader for their resilience since the original building be close in August 2023 . we have deliver high - quality temporary modular accommodation that the school will use until its new permanent building be ready . we will continue to work closely with the trust and the local community to find a permanent solution . when I work at the University of Salford , I be proud to be part of the revolution in high degree apprenticeship that see thousand of people find new technical career follow high education . with unemployment rise and with recruitment agency report significant reduction in job posting as company squeeze their payroll follow the Government ' s national insurance increase , what new measure be the Government take to protect apprenticeship level in this economic climate ? after the Conservatives leave we with a collapse apprenticeship system as well as skill shortage , Labour have listen to employer and be redrawe the system through Skills England , a new growth and skill levy and new foundation apprenticeship . to insulate our home and build the 1 . 5 million we need , we will need far more construction worker — about 1 million over the next decade . what step be we take on apprenticeship and training to ensure that we have the construction worker we need ? we be work across Government with the sector to put in place training scheme to build up the next generation of installer , include new apprenticeship for retrofit co - ordinator and installation technician . as I mention , we have also establish Skills England , which will form a coherent national picture of skill gap and how they can be address . I recently visit a school in my constituency in a building that be hundred of year old . its school condition allocation do not cover the work need to keep the school warm , safe and up to date . what step be the Government take to ensure that classroom in old building be fit out ? ensure that school and college have the resource and building that they need be a key part of our mission to break down barrier to opportunity . I will be happy to meet the hon . member to hear more about his concern . millmead child ' s centre in my constituency help young people achieve their early learn goal and provide safeguard service , and it have be do so with deprive family for many year , yet although Kent county council have be give £ 4 million to protect family hub , it be not protect those service . will the Minister explain to Kent county council that it should be find the money for this vital service ? I thank my hon . friend for raise her concern so passionately . we be aware that Kent county council be take the necessary step to well meet the need of family , and will continue to provide family hub service from exist alternative site nearby . that say , I be happy to meet she to discuss the matter far . Wokingham borough council often struggle to find school , include specialist school , that can meet the need of SEND pupil . as a result , many child be receive education other than at school , or be reliant on alternative provision . even so , there be often instance in which some need identify in the EHCP be not meet . will the Minister — Order . I be sorry ; it be mean to be a topical question . somebody have a quick go at answering . the Department for Education ' s regional team engage with Wokingham regularly to discuss its SEND provision , provide support and constructive challenge , and share good practice . that have include provide a DFE SEND adviser to work with Wokingham and support the local authority in improve its service . I recently visit Beaconsfield primary school in Ealing Southall , where teacher tell I they have to fill in up to six form to get disabled child the help they need . the time that take be time they do not have , and they often need to choose which child to prioritise for support . how will the Minister reduce unnecessary paperwork and make it easy and more efficient for school to ensure that every disabled child get the educational support that they need ? yet again we hear about the urgent need to reform our SEND system . we be determined to turn it around . we will work with everyone across the House and anyone with an interest in this area , include parent , teacher and staff , because we need to get this right . for safeguard purpose , a number of primary school in my constituency now allow pupil to wear their PE kit all day on PE day , rather than get they change in school . what assurance and support will minister give those school that be concerned about the change to uniform policy that Labour be push through , particularly with respect to participation in PE ? there be no reason that school should need to make any kind of change . of course , headteacher make practical decision about how they feel they should run their school . we be cut the cost to parent and put more money back in their pocket , unlike the conservative party , which seem to oppose practical , straightforward measure to cut the cost of school uniform . ensure sensory and motor integration be crucial for a child ' s development and learning , yet many service that do so be available only in the private sector . will the Minister meet I to discuss how we can ensure that parent can access those crucial service ? I know that my hon . friend be a strong advocate for child with special educational need and disability in her constituency , and I be happy to meet she to discuss the issue . the Children ' s Commissioner say that the Government be " legislate against the thing we know work in school " . Katharine Birbalsingh say the school Bill be " catastrophic " . Sir Dan Moynihan ask : " why be we do this ? " . why do the Education Secretary think that she know more about education than the Children ' s Commissioner , the head of the good school in the country , and the head of the good multi - academy trust ? this Labour Government be determined to deliver high and rise standard for all our child . the Conservatives leave 1 , 000 fail school , continue to let down more than 400 , 000 child . they leave one in three child leave primary school without a firm foundation in English and math , and one in five child regularly out of school . if they want to debate their record , I will do it any day of the week . will the Minister meet I to discuss the SEND crisis in Suffolk Coastal ? I have have over 100 family reach out to I since the general election to talk about their urgent need and the crisis that they face because of Suffolk county council . yes . in Devon , only 4 . 9 % of ehcp be receive within 20 week . conservative - run Devon county council have be utterly fail our child for the past 10 year . will the Minister meet I to discuss what more we can do to support the council and turn thing around for family , like that of my constituent James , who have have to wait two and a half year for the test that he need to get an EHCP ? local authority have be significantly impact by the increase demand for ehcp , and by workforce capacity issue . we know that they need a more effective and efficient service delivery for school and family , and we be work as hard as we can to support local authority in meet their requirement in a timely way . fiscal policy : defence Spending ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Defence if he will make a statement on the impact of Government fiscal policy on defence . the Government ' s plan for change say that we will " set out the path to spend 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence in the spring " . I be genuinely grateful to the hon . gentleman for ask this urgent question . it give I the opportunity to reiterate what the Prime Minister have say , what the Defence Secretary tell the House on Wednesday last week , and what the Minister for Defence Procurement and Industry repeat in the House on Friday , which be that this Government have a cast - iron commitment to spend 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence , and that we be already deliver for defence by increase defence spending . at our first Budget , we announce an extra £ 3 billion on spending on defence in the next financial year . thank you for grant this urgent question , Mr Speaker . before I turn to the specific , I hope you will indulge I and allow I to say on behalf of his Majesty ' s Opposition that we join all colleague today in mark Holocaust Memorial Day . may we never forget or be complacent about the lesson . last Wednesday , the Defence Secretary stand at the Dispatch Box and lay bare the extent of the russian grey zone threat . this be not a distant threat , but one that have be lurk in our own water , threaten the United Kingdom and our critical infrastructure . I hear what the Secretary of State say , and respond by confirm that he have our full support in stand up to the Russians . I say that this show why we urgently need to increase defence spending . but there be one big problem . the rest of we be listen , but the Chancellor of the Exchequer be not . despite all the evidence before our eye of the grow threat , we learn this weekend from multiple source that spend 2 . 5 % will be delay beyond 2030 . can the Minister disown such talk , and specifically confirm that we will hit 2 . 5 % during this Parliament ? the Treasury be not just fail to back more defence spending ; it be hit our armed force with high taxis on death in service benefit and education . the Secretary of State confirm on Friday that the application of inheritance tax to death in service benefit for the armed force would go ahead . we understand that to be cause deep alarm throughout the force community . as for the education tax , we know that the continuity of education allowance would not be uprated to 100 % of the vat impact , leave many service personnel thousand of pound out of pocket , so since the summer I have call for a full exemption for child of armed force family . however , in a write answer to I in November on the continuity of education allowance and school vat , the Minister for Veterans and People say that " the new vat policy do not offer any exemption " . yet on Friday we learn that child of US armed force family serve in this country and attend british independent school be exempt from vat on their UK school fee . I do not begrudge they that — US force be base in our country to defend we — but we want the same treatment for our people . finally , can the Minister confirm that the Secretary of State will bang on the door of no . 11 to demand , first , that the tax on death in service benefit be drop and , secondly , that british force family be treat the same as their american colleague and grant a full exemption from education vat ? be it not time that Labour back our armed force with action , rather than just word ? I agree with the hon . Gentleman ' s word about Holocaust Memorial Day . his Majesty the King have be in Auschwitz for the 80th anniversary , and he speak for the nation when he say that we will remember this evil long after the survivor of the Holocaust have pass . I have set out clearly that , in the spring , we will lay out a path to spend 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence . we will also publish a strategic defence review , set out what we will spend the money on and how we will respond to emerge threat . as the hon . Gentleman will know from the Defence Secretary ' s statement last week , we will make it absolutely clear to those who threaten we that we will use the formidable capability available to we to defend the UK and our ally . we inherit a situation in which , during their entire time in power , not a single Conservative Government spend 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence . the last time that 2 . 5 % of GDP be spend on defence be under the last Labour Government . we have inherit fall morale ; a retention and recruitment crisis ; service personnel live in mouldy , broken home ; and a hollow - out and underfunde military . that be what the SDR will seek to fix , and I hope that the hon . Gentleman will be able to give we his full support . have listen to last week ' s debate , the hon . Gentleman will know that those who die on active service be exempt from the inheritance tax provision . he will also know that the Defence Secretary have uplift CEA support to 90 % for those who privately educate their child while serve in the military . we will continue to support our armed force , renew the contract between the nation and those who serve . we will publish the defence review in the spring , when we will also set out our path to spend 2 . 5 % . I call the Chair of the Defence Committee . we live in an increasingly volatile world , so I thank the Minister for his clarification on defence spending . surely the cost of fight a war , notwithstanding the human cost , be significantly high than that of have a credible deterrent force . the Prime Minister recently tell I at the Liaison Committee that the strategic defence review have to be complete before the path to 2 . 5 % can be plot , so why have there be discussion about the timeline for that path before the SDR have be publish ? we have say that we will publish the strategic defence review in the spring , and we will also set out a path to spend 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence in the spring . I do not recognise the publication timeline suggest by my hon . friend , but he be right that deter a war be cheap than fight one . that be why we be continue to support our ally in Ukraine , and make sure that we have a NATO - first defence policy — to deter aggression face the United Kingdom and our ally , and , if necessary , to defeat it with formidable capability . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the Government ' s commitment to spend 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence have be shroud in delay and uncertainty . at a time when Europe face its grave security crisis in decade , this be unacceptable . promise without a clear path be hollow , and the Government should commit to set out by Easter a detailed and credible plan for reach 2 . 5 % . we must also make the right spending decision , and the House of Lords International Relations and Defence Committee have raise concern about the capability of the British Army . what plan do the Minister have to reverse the previous Conservative Government ' s cut to the Army ? he mention retention , which be another critical issue . improve the live condition of our armed force must be a priority if we be to attract and keep the talent we need . finally , the ongoing problem of inefficient defence procurement undermine our readiness , so what be the Minister do to tackle those long - stand problem ? the Government must stop drag their heel , set out the pathway to 2 . 5 % and end the uncertainty . I have a lot of time for the hon . Lady , but we have be very clear and consistent that we will set out a path to spend 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence in the spring . I remind she that when her party be in government , instead of increase defence spending by £ 3 billion , as Labour do , the Liberal Democrats ' and the Conservatives ' first Budget cut defence spending by £ 2 billion , and cut it by 20 % across the Parliament in which her party be in power . I support the hon . Lady in want a well deal for our force , but I remind she to look in the rear - view mirror occasionally . order . while we be talk about mirror , can the hon . Gentleman look at I occasionally , so he be not just stare one way ? it be interesting that member on the Opposition Front Bench seem to have forget that when they leave office , they leave we with the small Army since napoleonic time , a lack of ship and aeroplane , some of the poor equipment and many problem with procurement . it be important that we keep to the timetable on the SDR , but give the rumour we be hear and the story in the press , will the Minister provide an assurance that he will keep this House fully inform on progress on the SDR , not provide that information through the press ? my hon . friend be absolutely right that our armed force be hollow out and underfunde over the past 14 year of Conservative Government , but the Defence Secretary will come to the House to report the strategic defence review and announcement will be make by Government about the path to 2 . 5 % of GDP . I understand the enthusiasm , especially that of Conservative Members , to listen to anonymous briefing , but we have be clear that this Government will treat the House with respect . we will be in the House to make announcement on the SDR and on the path to 2 . 5 % of gdp to be spend on defence . I have a simple question : would it be compatible with the military covenant to make compensation payment to former member of the IRA ? that be not a matter for the Ministry of Defence and it be not within my portfolio , but if the hon . Gentleman write to I , I will ensure Northern Ireland Office official respond to he . however , I do not think there will be strong support for such action from much of the House . on our journey to increase defence spending , it be crucial that we keep the public on side , especially give our dire financial inheritance from the Conservative party and the hollow - out state of our armed force , as Conservative Members have acknowledge . that be why I welcome the Government ' s break from tradition in inform this House and the british people about their step to deploy a nuclear submarine to respond to Yantar , the russian spy boat , along with the Plymouth - base RFA Proteus . what step will the Government take in the future , over the come week and month , to keep the british public inform , so that they stay on side as we increase defence spending to respond to the threat from Russia ? I thank my hon . friend and constituency neighbour for his question . he be right that last week we declassify information about the activity of the russian spy ship Yantar , include reveal detail of the surfacing of a Royal Navy submarine to deter the Yantar ' s activity loiter above our critical national infrastructure . it be absolutely right that this Government make the case that warfare have change , especially when it come to the protection of our critical underwater infrastructure . make the case that we have formidable ability , but also be clear in the SDR about how we will invest in those capability alongside our ally , be essential . the SDR will be publish in the spring , when I be sure he will be able to see more about that . I be go to surprise the Minister and say that I think he be right that the armed force be not big enough when we leave Government , and that every Chancellor since the end of the cold war slash spending because it be the easy thing to do . once the Ukraine war start , because of Russia ' s illegal invasion , we put ten of billion of pound into the response , so my question to the Minister be simple : if the strategic defence review suggest that we have to spend more money , be we go to spend that money or will it be direct to ensure that the amount do not rise above 2 . 5 % ? the right hon . Gentleman be certainly right that the force be hollow out and underfunde , which we be seek to address by increase defence spending . we have provide £ 3 billion in the Budget and the path to move from 2 . 3 % to 2 . 5 % will be lay out in the spring . the SDR will set out what capability we need to have to meet the threat environment , against that pathway to spend 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence . the last Conservative Government do not spend 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence at any point during their 14 year of power . unfortunately , the increase that will come will have to address a lot of the damage that that Government do to our Army , our Navy and our Air Force . do the Minister agree that it take a Labour Government to deliver those spending commitment ? it be certainly true that the last time this country spend 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence be under a Labour Government . the Tories cut defence spending as a percentage of gdp over their time in power . it be important that the strategic defence review win cross - party support when publish . I hope that the shadow Defence Secretary will be able to offer the Government a common position , so that what be publish will be not just labour ' s defence strategy but Britain ' s defence strategy , and we can be strong at home as well as secure abroad . if labour colleague be go to insist on reiterate that the last time 2 . 5 % of GDP be spend on defence it be by a Labour Government , I suppose I have to point out that the last time 3 % be spend by any Government it be by a Conservative Government , and the last time 4 % be spend by any Government it be by a Conservative Government . both those figure be some time after the fall of the Berlin wall . when the Berlin wall be still up , under the present accounting system we be spend up to 5 . 5 % on defence , so please can everyone stop obsess about 2 . 5 % and when it will come in , because we need a lot more ? I have a lot of time for the right hon . gentleman . he do not plug his " shift the goalpost ? " Defence Committee report , which clearly set out change in GDP spend on defence . I believe that he use the report to argue for more defence spending when his party be in power . now that we be in power , we be do it : we increase defence spending by £ 3 billion in the Budget and will lay out a path to 2 . 5 % in the spring . today be Holocaust Memorial Day . do the Minister agree that this solemn day be a reminder of what we be fight to defend , and the need to always protect our value and freedom ? today be a day when we remember not just all those who be kill in the Holocaust , but those kill in genocide since . it be a day when there be unity and cross - party support for tackle hate , in whatever form and wherever it come from . it underline why we must stand with our friend in these difficult time , why we need strong defence , and why we need to root out hate wherever it rear its ugly head . let I reiterate what the Minister be not quite say : we be look forward to a defence review that will set out what we need . it will not then be circumscribe as a percentage of gdp by some artificial ceiling ; the Government will spend whatever be necessary arise from the defence review , and his Department will send a defence review to the Treasury untrammelle by any spending constraint . we need to address the desperate threat situation that the country be in . Lord Robertson be conduct the externally lead strategic defence review base on the term of reference that be agree with the Secretary of State for Defence and the Prime Minister . Lord Robertson will publish it in the spring . I hope that the hon . Gentleman be look forward to it as much as I be . under the last government , only two out of 49 major defence project be be deliver on time and on budget . will the Minister set out what the Government be do to get to grip with the financial mismanagement and fail procurement system that we inherit in defence ? it be certainly true that we inherit a broken defence procurement system ; I think broken be the word that the shadow defence procurement Minister , the right hon . member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) , use when he be on the Defence Committee . it must make for awkward team meeting , give that the man responsible for the broken procurement system , the hon . member for South Suffolk ( James Cartlidge ) , be sit in those meeting as his boss . we have set out clearly that , as part of our defence reform work , we will create a new national armament director . the new defence industrial strategy will be publish in due course , which will set out how we will spend more with british company , support not just the prime but small and medium - sized enterprise in all part of the United Kingdom . let I try to help the Minister understand where the Opposition ' s concern be come from : it be because of the realisation , or suspicion , that the arbiter of when and how 2 . 5 % be realise be not the Secretary of State for Defence but the Chancellor . this be a Chancellor who scarcely understand the fundamental of economic , much less the fundamental of defence and the threat environment that these island face . what will the path to 2 . 5 % look like ? be there a date , or be it when certain criterion be meet ? also , the Minister be clear on who the final arbiter will be ? be the Treasury say , " 2 . 5 % when you need it , " or " 2 . 5 % when we decide it " ? the hon . Gentleman invite I to make the announcement that I be say will come in the spring . to answer his concern , I point he to the fact that the path to 2 . 5 % will be set out in the spring . during my recent visit to Britannia Royal Naval College with the armed force parliamentary scheme , I see the vital role that investment in defence play in support our armed force and create skilled job . do the Minister agree that unlike the Conservatives ' inconsistent defence strategy , this Labour Government ' s £ 9 billion investment in Rolls - Royce show a clear commitment to strengthen our national security and grow our economy ? the armed force parliamentary scheme be a brilliant scheme that introduce member across this House to the important work do by our armed force . as a Navy brat myself and the proud MP for Devonport in Plymouth , I know the importance of a strong Royal Navy , Royal Marines and Royal Fleet Auxiliary . the £ 9 billion announcement last week be an important part of secure our nuclear future , back job across the country and support job across the entire supply chain — it make Britain strong . the armed force covenant be a promise — a promise that together we acknowledge and understand that those who serve or have serve in the armed force and their family , include the bereaved , should be treat with fairness and respect . how be the imposition of inheritance tax on death in service payment of some family of deceased soldier fair and consistent with that ? it be certainly true that we have a manifesto commitment to put the armed force covenant fully into law . that will come forward in the armed force Bill in due course . we set out from the Dispatch Box last week that the inheritance tax do not apply to those member of our armed force who die on active service . the other area be subject to a Treasury consultation , and the Treasury will make an announcement in due course . be it not the reality of the past 14 year that we have few soldier and few Navy and Air Force personnel and that , in an uncertain world , we need to reverse that trend and grow our military force to deal with those threat ? it be certainly true that this Government inherit an armed force that , as world - class as they be , be struggle with fall morale , poor housing and capability gap thank to 14 year of underfunding and hollow out . the strategic defence review will set out what capability we need to meet the threat , and the path to 2 . 5 % will set out what will be spend on those capability . we also need to improve how we spend because the defence procurement system be break — something that be well highlight by the hon . member for South Suffolk ( James Cartlidge ) and the right hon . member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) when they be in government . that will be fix , and we will ensure that we have a strong set of armed force able to deter aggression and defeat it if necessary . the Minister say the strategic defence review will be announce in the spring , but be that the astronomical spring , which he will note end on 21 June , or the meteorological spring , which end , from memory , on 31 May ? he talk about a " pathway to 2 . 5 % " . that be a carefully craft phrase from the Dispatch Box . be the pathway short or long ? can he not give an answer to a straight question : when will we hear about 2 . 5 % ? when will it be announce ? what be the date and the year ? the strategic defence review will be publish in spring this year , and the path to 2 . 5 % will also be announce in spring this year . I be grateful to the Minister and his Department for set out the need for increase defence spending because , like so many here , I believe we be live through a change of era where the assumption of globalisation and multilateralism be be refute by reality , and it demand the renewal of our modern productive power in defence and the civil economy . the simple reality be to that build strong alliance , we must maintain and build our autonomy . be it not the case that the one key fact about all this be that to maintain a good relationship with the United States , we will have to spend more on defence ? I agree with my hon . friend that we have to spend more on defence . I think everyone in this House agree with that , and that be why this Labour Government be spend more on defence : an extra £ 2 . 9 billion as announce in the Budget and a pathway to spend 2 . 5 % of our gdp , which will be announce later in the spring . it be the Minister ' s assessment of cost that drive the decision to decommission Bulwark and Albion . but if the Brazilians be go to buy they , they can not have be that bad , can they ? let I say very clearly to the right hon . Gentleman that we inherit a position where it be not plan that Albion and Bulwark would go to sea for a single day before they be decommission — that be the plan we inherit from the Conservative Government . we be look at new capability as part of the strategic defence review , and the Defence Secretary have also commit from this Dispatch Box to the multi - role supply ship project , to provide littoral and land capability for our brilliant Royal Marines , who have a bright future in the strategic defence review . I think both side of the House can agree that our peace and security be found on strong armed force . will the Minister therefore welcome the fact that we be spend £ 3 billion more on defence this year , as well as our firm commitment to get to 2 . 5 % of gdp ? I agree that it be important that we spend more on defence . that be why the Chancellor lay out from this Dispatch Box that we will spend an additional £ 2 . 9 billion on defence in the next financial year . it be also why the Government have lay out our plan to renew the contract between the nation and those who serve . this be about not just kit and equipment but people . address fall morale and poor - quality defence housing matter to our armed force , and that be why this Labour Government be address those issue . a trained and skilled workforce be central to a successful defence policy , and I see that at first hand during my visit to RAF Valley , where I meet Babcock apprentice who attend Gr ŵ p Llandrillo Menai . the Babcock programme support young people to develop skill , so can I ask the Secretary of State to ensure that any increase in defence spending include significant investment in training and apprenticeship ? as someone who have a large Babcock premise in his own constituency in Devonport , I understand the importance of make sure that there be investment in skill . it be absolutely right that , just as we invest in the skill of our armed force personnel , we also invest in the skill of the civilian who support they . that need to happen not just in the prime but across the entire supply chain , and that be what be be set out in the defence review and the defence industrial strategy , which will be publish in due course . I be a strong supporter of make sure that we reach 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence . however , may I remind conservative Members that one of the first thing this Government do be to scrap a £ 40 million contract with a helicopter company that transport Conservative Ministers around the country ? do the Minister agree that that will help to ensure that our defence spending go on defend the nation , not on assuage the ego of Conservative Members ? the shadow Defence Secretary be certainly a regular user of the helicopter , so he will be able to advise colleague whether they be good value . it be true that the Government need to demonstrate our support for our armed force . we be do that by make sure that we invest more in defence , and we have also give our armed force the large pay rise in 20 year . recruit ' pay be up 34 % under this Labour Government , and we be create a new direct entry to cyber to make sure that we can get the people we need in the future . it be not just the kit and capability but the people that this Government be invest in , and we will continue to do so . I expect to see more of that in the defence review publish in the spring . I would like to see slightly more humility from all political party on the subject of defence spending . [ interruption . ] thank you . the Minister be right that defence spending be cut under the coalition , but we be in a different world now , with a great power attack Europe . I would also like to inform he that one of my good friend , Captain David Hicks MC , be kill in Afghanistan in 2007 , in part because of the atrocious level of military kit provide to our armed force there . so I think all political party need to reflect on their record . I think that the whole House will want to pass on its condolence to the hon . Gentleman and the family of Captain Hicks . it be right that one of the Government ' s objective be to have a strategic defence review that be also the nation ' s defence review — one that be not just labour ' s defence policy , but that can be support cross - party . for that reason , I have lay out clearly the path and the timetable for our publication of the SDR and the 2 . 5 % pathway in the spring . when that happen , I hope we can have a debate about how those capability match the threat and how we can support the SDR as a cross - party - back defence review that give our troop and our industry the direction and support they need to keep our nation safe . on the Floor of the House today , the Minister have state that he wish to have more money for the armed force , and he have be very critical of previous procurement exercise by the former Government . can I therefore ask he whether he agree that give away the Chagos island , and pay to do so , be a bad deal , and that that money would be well spend on invest in our armed force ? the hon . Gentleman might have miss the debate in which it be set out clearly that the deal we have secure to ensure the long - term future of the Chagos island begin under his Conservative Government — 11 round of negotiation under the Conservative party , I think it be . the UK - US base on Diego Garcia be strategically important , which be why it be absolutely vital to secure its long - term future free from any constitutional threat . that be what the deal do , and I hope that when it come before the House the hon . Gentleman will be able to back it , just as I will . which come first , the strategic and operational need of our armed force or fiscal parameter set by Treasury bureaucrat ? the strategic defence review will set out clearly what threat the nation be face and what capability we need . I would expect to see renewal of our capability , because we have see from the war in Ukraine that warfare have change . some of the assumption about how we structure our armed force and how we fight have be challenge by the experience of warfare in Ukraine , and that be one of the reason why this SDR be so important . it will set out the evolve capability that we need and how we will deliver they to keep our nation safe . give that the vast majority of the Ministry of Defence supply chain be in the private sector — for example , BAE Systems in Fylde at Warton and at Samlesbury , with job across Lancashire — and that those private company have see significant increase in cost follow the Chancellor ' s Budget squeeze their payroll cost , as well as increase regulation through the employment Bill and in other area , we will be able to buy considerably less kit for 2 . 5 % at the end of the defence review than at the start of it . as the Government go through the defence review process , be they cut the shopping list or plan to go above 2 . 5 % ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question , and I support the work of the private sector business that do so much to support our armed force . the need of our armed force will change and be change ; that mean change capability , but it also mean a change in how we buy our kit . certainly , if we look at some of the absolute procurement disaster under the last government — only two of 49 defence procurement project be on time and on budget — we see that we need not only to buy the right kit , but to buy it well . that be something that the last government clearly fail to do ; the shadow defence procurement Minister himself , the right hon . member for Rayleigh and Wickford , describe the defence procurement system as " broken " . we need to take step forward , and the SDR and the defence industrial strategy will set out how we will improve defence procurement . I call the new Member for Kent , Jim Shannon . thank you very much , Mr Speaker . I be the new Member for many place . I thank the Minister very much for his answer . I ask he very respectfully whether he agree that the story in the press this week about the propose sale of Navy ship to Brazil , when our fleet already appear deplete , be worry ? there be a need to increase our defence spending , not simply to fulfil international obligation but to be in a position to defend ourselves in the frontier of the cyber - security world , and in the physical world as well . will the Minister reassure this House that the decision that be make have be future - proof with our security in mind — the security of all of we in the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland — and prioritise as such ? that be precisely the reason why the Prime Minister commission the strategic defence review within two week of come to office , to assess the change context that we be face but also the change capability that we need , as a nation , to keep we safe . that include retire old capability , especially capability that be never plan to go to sea again — a decision make under the last government . we have already increase defence spending in the Budget — it be up by £ 2 . 9 billion — and we will set out a path towards spend 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence in the spring . storm É owyn with your permission , Mr Speaker , I would like to make a statement on the Government ' s response to storm É owyn . on Thursday of last week , the Met Office issue two red weather warning for storm É owyn , mean there be danger to life across Northern Ireland and central and southern Scotland . as a result , and in consultation with the Scottish Government and the Northern Ireland Executive , I approve a decision to issue an emergency mobile phone alert contain information about the weather warning and guidance on how to stay as safe as possible to approximately 4 . 5 million people across Northern Ireland and Scotland . this be the large real - life use of the emergency alert system to date . on Friday morning , storm É owyn bring extremely strong wind to different part of the UK , with gust exceed 92 mph in Northern Ireland . initial observation from the Met Office say it be " probably the strong storm " to hit the UK in at least 10 year and the most severe storm for Northern Ireland since 1998 . very sadly , we have have report so far of two death during the storm — a young man in Scotland and a young man in the Republic of Ireland . our thought be with and our condolence go to their family . the storm cause widespread property damage and significant disruption to transport and power supply , particularly in Northern Ireland and Scotland . at its peak , 285 , 000 property in Northern Ireland — that be about a quarter of the population — and around 290 , 000 property in Scotland lose power . More than 95 % of the customer in Scotland have have their power restore . work be continue to bring that number down . in England and Wales , around 325 , 000 property lose supply , and the vast majority have be reconnecte . as a result of the power outage , disruption to telecom be report by mobile phone operator in the area affect . significant impact be also feel across the rail and road network , with train service cancel , and Edinburgh airport and both Belfast airport suspend operation on Friday . also on Friday , all school in Northern Ireland be close , as be almost 90 % of Scotland ' s school , and all college and university . in England , there be also a small number of school closure . as a result of the storm , around 3 , 000 property in Northern Ireland be experience disruption to water supply , and supply of bottled water be en route to Northern Ireland . I want to thank the emergency service , the engineer and other who have work tirelessly and with great courage in the face of extremely difficult weather condition . they put in a huge effort to provide support to those who have need it to restore power , repair damage and clear road and railway . I know the whole House will join I in thank they for their work . the Scottish Government and the Northern Ireland Executive have lead the response effort in Scotland and Northern Ireland , and there have be good co - operation between the UK Government and the devolve government over the past few day . we remain in regular contact to assess the situation and see what more need to be do . on Saturday , the Prime Minister speak to the Scottish First Minister and the Northern Ireland First Minister and Deputy First Minister to offer any support that the UK Government could provide . today , the Prime Minister have also speak to the Taoiseach and discuss the late situation in the Republic of Ireland . over the weekend , I chair a ministerial Cobra meeting with relevant Cabinet colleague as well as the First Minister of Scotland and the First Minister and Deputy First Minister of Northern Ireland . I reiterate the Prime Minister ' s offer of assistance , and we discuss the practical support that the UK Government could provide . under industry arrangement , electricity network operator have facilitate mutual aid , and 102 engineer with equipment have travel to Northern Ireland to support power restoration . Northern Ireland have request specific mutual aid from Great Britain in the form not only of engineer , but of helicopter , generator and battery , as well as equipment more widely , include chainsaw and vehicle . UK Government Departments be move as quickly as they can to meet these request . we believe the majority of request can be meet through either the usual mutual aid channel or , in some case , commercial arrangement with industry . the Cobra unit in my Department , which have meet twice over the weekend at official level and once again this morning , be continue to co - ordinate the support to ensure it be provide as swiftly as possible . I have meet Cobra official several time to review the situation and ensure that we be do all we can to support those affect . the message have be simple : to get as much help as quickly as possible to where it be need . the situation on the ground be improve , but it be estimate that it could be up to 10 day before everyone be reconnecte — a long time . this be very serious and we be work as hard as we can to accelerate the restoration of power . the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland be today in Northern Ireland , where he have meet the Minister for Infrastructure to discuss recovery , and resident impact by the storm . the Under - Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero ( Michael Shanks ) be in Scotland this afternoon , meet staff who be work on reconnection . since Friday , around 220 , 000 property in Northern Ireland , and 600 , 000 across Great Britain , have have their power restore . welfare provision have be provide to household without power , travel disruption have ease , most school in Northern Ireland have reopen today , and we hope that the majority of the remainder will reopen tomorrow . however , the situation remain serious and there be a need for ongoing help . in Northern Ireland an estimate 60 , 000 property be still without power , as be around 7 , 500 in Scotland . Northern Ireland electricity network expect to restore power to the vast majority of home and business over the come day , and we will continue to provide additional support that may be need to accelerate that reconnection for as many household as possible . storm É owyn have now move away from the UK , but another storm , which the Spanish Met Office have name Storm Herminia , have bring heavy band of rain to south - west England and Wales . a number of property have be flood , and 35 , 000 property lose power , although the majority of those have now have it restore . we expect the impact of this storm to be significantly less than that of storm É owyn . I hope this statement underscore the seriousness and urgency with which the Government be work to address the destruction that storm É owyn have work . in the day ahead we will continue to work closely with our colleague in the devolved government , particularly in Northern Ireland , which have be worst hit in this situation , to ensure that all household be reconnecte as soon as possible , and that full support be provide to affected household in the meantime . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Minister . I thank the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster for his statement and for provide advance sight of it . I pay tribute to all the emergency service , responder and volunteer who have undertake , and continue to undertake , action in response to storm É owyn . we join the Minister in send our deep condolence to those family who be grieve after the tragic death in Scotland and the Republic of Ireland . red weather warning be rarely issue , and storm É owyn be certainly the bad of its kind for some time . it highlight the importance of work to strengthen preparedness and resilience across the board . I understand that the Government will be undertake a pandemic preparedness exercise later this year . be there any plan to undertake a similar exercise for storm and adverse weather , particularly focus on the use of the emergency alert system that be introduce by the previous Government , its effectiveness , and the protection of critical infrastructure ? on critical infrastructure , in relation to water , what can the UK Government do to help ensure the resilience of those system that go down over the weekend into the future ? much of the damage have be cause , or worsen , by extensive flooding . I recognise that the Government have establish the flood resilience taskforce , but report suggest that it have meet just once since July . that be disappointing , if true , and I hope that the Secretary of State will clarify what action be take up as a result of that meeting . as community seek to recover and rebuild after storm É owyn , many face be hit again by Storm Herminia . what preparation be in place for that storm , and what flooding response preparation be now in place after the weekend ? storm É owyn have cause enormous damage right across the United Kingdom , as the Secretary of State say , but Scotland and Northern Ireland be particularly hard - hit . it be imperative that the Government fully understand the challenge face by devolved authority in provide adequate funding for storm and flooding preparedness , as well as response . I would appreciate clarity from the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster on what work be be take forward under the proper agreement to ensure progress on that . I would also appreciate clarity on what discussion be hold with the devolved Administrations ahead of the storm to co - ordinate response and ensure that the proper preparation be in place . as the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster set out in his statement , wind of more than 90 mph leave a quarter of all home in Northern Ireland , as well as many business , without power . labour make a commitment in its manifesto to support the Northern Ireland Executive to improve public service in the Province . if ever there be a test of the Government ' s commitment to support the Executive and public service in Northern Ireland , it be now , after this horrific storm . we understand that , under mutual aid arrangement , the UK Government be provide some target support to Northern Ireland . can the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster unpack that far ? I think he say in his statement that 102 engineer from Great Britain be currently in Northern Ireland to get power restore to affected community . can he confirm that figure ? how many more be due to arrive , and when will they arrive ? can he confirm , give the increase frequency of this type of weather incident , what action he be take to ensure that Northern Ireland Electricity have the in - house skill and capacity need to respond to similar event in future ? be NHS England offer any support to the health service in Northern Ireland ? storm É owyn hit every nation in our United Kingdom . we have see travel and power problem , along with the tragic loss of young life in Scotland . in Wales , the storm have prompt school closure and yet more outage . can the Minister assure the House that he be impress upon his colleague in Cardiff Bay and Holyrood the need to make sure that local authority and local health board be properly resource to deliver preparedness and resilience service in their community , use the record block grant provide by the previous Government and the package announce by the Chancellor in last autumn ' s Budget ? our thought and prayer be with all those community affect by storm É owyn and with all those work so tirelessly to help they . I thank the hon . gentleman for his response and , in particular , for his tribute to the emergency service worker and engineer who have work so hard over recent day . he ask a number of question , and I will try to go through they . the hon . Gentleman ask whether there would be a further test of the national emergency alert system . yes , there will be . I announce that to the House about 10 day ago . there will be a second nationwide test later this year . he ask about resilience meeting . I can assure he that there have be more than one meeting on resilience over the past seven month , and I take part in they regularly . he ask about co - operation with the devolved government . there have be good co - operation with the devolved government in recent day both at the official level — we have have regular contact over the weekend — and also at the ministerial Cobra meeting that I chair on Saturday evening , which involve the First Minister and Deputy First Minister of Northern Ireland and the First Minister of Scotland . the hon . Gentleman ask about financial support . both Northern Ireland and Scotland receive significant increase in their budget . I be pleased that he acknowledge — a rare acknowledgment from the Opposition Front Bench — the generosity of the settlement as a result of the Budget from my right hon . friend the Chancellor a few month ago . he ask about the number of engineer . the late figure I have be 102 , but the number move around . as I say in my statement , we have have two storm and flood and power outage in different part of the country . the principal that my official and I have try to instil be this : as much help as possible , as quickly as possible , to the area where it be need . that be what have drive our response over the weekend and through today . storm É owyn cause real damage to home and property in my constituency and that of my hon . friend the Member for Dunfermline and Dollar ( Graeme Downie ) , who have a family emergency today but with whom I work closely over the weekend . the cost include significant loss to the economy , after many business have to close on Friday . around 15 , 000 people lose power across Fife in freeze condition . I thank the ScottishPower engineer and all those who work hard in dangerous condition to get power restore and to care for other . however , some , include old and vulnerable people , on the outskirt of Aberdour , Burntisland , Cowdenbeath and Auchtertool be still without power . I be closely engage with many constituent over the weekend , ensure that a generator be bring to a care home without power in Auchtertool on Saturday . I thank the Windsor hotel in Kirkcaldy and the woodside hotel in Cowdenbeath , who accommodate people hit by the storm at no cost . such act of community solidarity be priceless in time of need . do the Minister agree that lesson from the response to storm É owyn must be learn and implement , as climate change will bring more extreme weather event ? they include the effectiveness of the priority service register , reliance on phone 105 when people have no mobile phone battery or work phone line , and more preparatory work by the Scottish Government and local authority to get resource and support to community . my hon . friend be absolutely right , and I echo she thank to those who have extend premise or help to their neighbour in these difficult time . these event can be very difficult , but they also show the good of society , such as the hotel in Fife that she mention . we be constantly learn and adapt from different emergency and try to improve our process . in recent day I have be impress by the speed with which mutual aid arrangement have work . it be never perfect , but we will keep try to learn and improve as these situation arise . I thank the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster for advance sight of his statement and for his thoughtful presentation of it . as he say , storm É owyn may well have be the strong storm to hit the United Kingdom in 10 year . sadly , it be a sign of what be likely to come . I be pray for those who be grieve those who have die , and I pay tribute , alongside everyone else in every corner of this House , to all who work throughout the weekend to support other , often at great cost and even risk to themselves . back home , community such as Patterdale , Flookburgh , Cark , Shap , Tebay , Crosby Ravensworth , Witherslack and Bouth see many home , business and community centre lose power . like other , I be incredibly grateful to the engineer at Electricity North West and the wide community group who have work tirelessly to reconnect resident and support those without power . I want to mention the Commodore Inn at Grange over Sands , the king arm at Stainton , the watermill at ing and the king Head at Ravenstonedale , which provide shelter , food and drink to resident hit by the power cut . storm be become more commonplace and severe , and the damage that they leave behind all the more troubling and increase . four day on , ten of thousand of home across the British Isles be still without power , and transport network remain badly hit . the Government ' s failure at the recent Budget to guarantee funding for flood defence beyond this come financial year be a cause of great anxiety for community such as mine , who be often the first to be hit by extreme weather event . it also strike I as extraordinarily short - sighted . will the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster demand that the Chancellor of the Exchequer put this right , and quickly ? farmer be our crucial ally in the fight to build more storm - resilient community . will the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster get the Treasury to ringfence funding , in addition to the environmental land management budget , to support farmer to protect our village , town and city through natural flood management ? farmer be also major victim of these storm , with crop and livestock tragically lose and equipment destroy . order . the hon . Gentleman will know that there be a two - minute limit . have I go over it ? by some 10 % . perhaps he will make this a very short final sentence . will the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster ensure that resilience funding go to the farmer who need it ? finally , will he meet the electricity company to consider how they can improve the resilience of power line ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for his question , and I echo his thank to those who have help so many over the past few day . he be right that these storm seem to be become more frequent . if he want more money for flood defence , he of course must support the revenue raiser that go towards that money — I hope there will be consistency on that . I also echo his thank to farmer for their effort in difficult time such as these . we know they can be very hard hit by the kind of weather we have see over the weekend . this weekend , Cumbria be hammer by storm É owyn . I must compliment the hundred of local authority staff and contractor who work day and night to deal with hundred of incident of fall tree and damage to power line and building , but I note that many of my resident be still wait for power to be restore . will the Government consider the eligibility criterion for the Bellwin scheme and whether it truly support the emergency response cost , which will very likely run to seven figure for each of Cumbria ' s two unitary authority ? we do not have plan to revise the Bellwin scheme right now , but we be work very hard to restore power to people in my hon . friend ' s area and in any other area where power have still not be restore . a huge effort have go into this work in recent day and hundred of thousand of home have be reconnecte , but the bad of it be still in Northern Ireland , where some 60 , 000 be without power . my constituency be very significantly impact by the storm , and we be just grateful there be no loss of life . that be why I be particularly sorry to hear about the young man in Mauchline ; my condolence go out to his family . I pay tribute to all the emergency service , local authority and everybody at ScottishPower who have do so much to restore the network — I will be even more grateful to they if they abide by their promise and get the village of skirl back on the network tonight . the one issue that have come up in this emergency , as in so many other , be the importance of contact with the elderly and vulnerable and of have an effective system for that contact . inevitably , people who have not previously be identify do emerge . however , despite all the lesson from previous incident , I do not believe we have a sufficiently effective system to identify the people who will be most in need in such circumstance . the right hon . Gentleman be quite right to say that contact with the elderly and the vulnerable be important . the priority service register be a pre - registration system for emergency event such as the storm , and I encourage anybody in that category who have not use it to register in advance . it give the power company much well information about exactly who be vulnerable in situation where the power be cut off . I begin by pay tribute to all those across Hexham , include local authority staff and member of the community , who help out during the storm . as the Government conduct the national resilience review , will my right hon . friend ensure that the need of our most isolated and rural community be prioritise when consider these kind of event , which be become far more common ? it be really important for our national solidarity that when the resilience review be publish in the spring , it do exactly what my hon . Friend say : it must consider resilience in not only the urban area , but the isolated area , which can often be the hard hit , and be often hit for the long time , when we have such emergency . I offer my sympathy to everyone who have be severely affect by storm É owyn , and in particular those who have lose love one . I share the Minister ' s acknowledgment of the work that have be and continue to be do in the aftermath of the storm . huge thank go to Scottish and Southern Electricity Networks , the ScottishPower emergency network , our local authority , staff at Openreach , our road and rail team and all the emergency service for the way they have handle and respond to this weather emergency . I have a couple of specific question . will the Minister commit to review the operation of battery back - up phone , which be replace phone on the copper wire network , include whether they be effective in a power outage , particularly in place where the power be off for long period of time ? make no mistake : this weather event be cause by climate change and be yet another warning — if one be need — against row back on our net zero commitment . will the Minister acknowledge that and redouble effort to tackle carbon emission in an effort to protect future generation from the most extreme scenario that we might face ? the hon . member be right to point out that as technology change and phone technology change , we must not end up increase our vulnerability . it be really important that regulator and phone company consider that as those change go through . our commitment to the energy transition remain as they be . it be a big priority for we to increase our energy security as we move through the come year . over the past few day we have see three notable thing happen : storm É owyn have have tragic consequence ; the CIA have announce that it think it be more likely that covid come from a chinese laboratory than from animal — that is , it think it more likely that it be make on purpose ; and the Russians , quite blatantly , put a spy boat in UK water and the Defence Secretary announce in this place that we have deploy a nuclear submarine to surface nearby to see it off . resilience be a huge topic . do the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster agree that siloe resilience in the Cabinet Office , security in the Home Office and defence in the Ministry of Defence might not be the way to go in the future , and that we need to think of these thing as very much connected ? my hon . friend be right that those thing be connect , but use the example of recent day , I can see advantage in the Cobra team ' s role . request come in that involve help from several Government Departments . the important thing in a situation like that be that they be not just dissipate around Departments , but someone at the centre hold the ring , drive progress and make sure it be pull together . that be precisely the role the Cabinet Office and Cobra official play in recent day . I believe there be value in someone hold the ring and drive progress in that way . I add my tribute and thank to the emergency service , core worker and care worker who be on the ground over the weekend , and to those provide welfare in our church and hall of all creed — the Orange hall and the Gaelic Athletic Association centre — which open their door for our local community . the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster mention that 60 , 000 property be still without electricity , but more individual be affect . our pensioner , young people , mother and child be still wait for their power to be supply , and some be still wait for water to be reconnecte to their home as well . I thank the Government for their assistance to the Northern Ireland Executive , but do the Chancellor , in his Cobra meeting , have the feeling that the Executive be prepare enough for what be come , rather than simply ask the UK Government for assistance ? when the statement say that the Northern Ireland Executive be ask for thing like chainsaw , it concern I that more could have be do by our Executive to prepare for what be come . let I echo what the hon . Gentleman say about different part of the community who open their door to help their neighbour — he be absolutely right about that . on the Northern Ireland Executive , I actually want to pay tribute to the role play by the First Minister , the Deputy First Minister and the Executive in recent day . as I say , we believe it be the bad storm to affect Northern Ireland since 1998 or thereabout . this be an emergency and a time when people in different part of the country should pull together . I be very happy to chair a Cobra meeting and do whatever else — other call over the weekend — to make sure that we get as much help to Northern Ireland as quickly as we could to where it be need . I will continue to do that over the next few day . whether our constituency be rural or urban , the destruction that we see last week should remind we of the need for urgent climate action . in the summer of 2021 , my constituency experience an extreme rainstorm , and home in south Hampstead be invade by water and raw sewage . one of my constituent , a recover stroke victim , be leave on the street with nothing but a small bag of belonging , and be now homeless . the same area be flood in 2002 and in 1975 , but no drainage improvement have be make . can my right hon . friend , who know my constituency well , confirm that drainage infrastructure will be include in the Government ' s resilience review ? I can certainly confirm that the risk of flooding and extreme weather event will be cover in the review . it be important that we publish a national risk register that be update constantly : we publish our late version just 10 day ago . as climate change — and , indeed , as terrorism and other threat change — it be especially important , when we be consider resilience and how we should prepare and protect the country , that we be not catch in the past but look to the way in which the world be change . I echo the tribute to the emergency service and all those who have be out try to keep people safe . it be particularly poignant for all of we on the Fylde coast who , each year , mark our police officer who have lose their life rescue people during stormy condition . two thing be noticeable to those who visit Fylde : it be beautiful , and it be very flat . as it be a coastal constituency , that mean that during storm , the wind reach particularly high level , while the water that be try to get into the sea from the hillier part of Lancashire slow down and do not leave the area so quickly , make it more prone to flooding . I meet representative of the Environment Agency on Friday to discuss these issue in the midst of the storm . one problem concern the pumping station at Lytham , which , like many other , have a funding allocation to pump water out to the river system when there be an immediate threat to life or residence but not necessarily when water be already backlogge on to farm and agricultural land across the area , which will cause further risk if that then create a breach . may I ask two very brief question ? first , will there be a review of that funding from the Environment Agency . can the Minister confirm the timeline for that ? secondly , when will the sustainable drainage system legislation come into force ? I be sure that the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency be beautiful and flat , and he be right to pay tribute to it . as for the funding for pumping station or anything else , of course we want the right resource to be there , but I must gently say to Opposition Members that if they be go to call for more funding for thing , they will have to support the revenue - raise measure that enable the Government to provide it . we can not have a situation in which member oppose every revenue - raise measure and then call for more funding in response to every statement . let I echo other in thank the emergency service and the power company for the job that they have do over the past few day , certainly in my constituency . we lose power in some area for a while , and school building have be damage and be be look at as we speak . I welcome the review that the Minister mention , but will he look at safeguard within the emergency alert system ? the current system might not be ideal for domestic abuse victim or those suffer from hear impairment . I gather that the first time the emergency alert system be test , under the last government , there be an effort to inform organisation that have contact with victim of domestic abuse , because we be aware of issue in that regard and we have to think as much as possible about who might be affect ; but I think that , overall , the system have benefit . these alert be not issue easily , and the late be issue in response to a very rare red " danger to life " weather warning which affect the whole of Northern Ireland and most of the central belt of Scotland , as well as some other part . we do not do this lightly , but when we do it , I think it be a useful system . however , if there be any lesson to be learn about how it be be use , of course we should learn they . I thank the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster for his clear commitment to make thing well . Northern Ireland and Strangford have be in the eye of the storm , and over the weekend it be incredible . there be whole village with no electricity , include Ballywalter , Greyabbey and Kircubbin , as well as part of Ards and part of Comber and Killyleagh . indeed , Killinchy be still without electricity . tree be block road all over the place , and there be no information about they be clear . there be pensioner with no access to phone , light or heat , and many pensioner have go up to 36 hour with no heat in their home . those pensioner , by the way , be prioritise by Northern Ireland Electricity for generator or some method of heating . I thank all the worker who come out in the bad of the storm and who be work hard , but the NIE helpline — what a disaster . People have have to wait 45 minute for reply and have get record message . I think it start to improve only today — maybe yesterday — probably due to the intervention of the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster and the Executive . have he have any discussion with the Executive about prioritise pensioner ’ home ? the storm have leave they incredibly vulnerable and wonder how to cope with the unknown . wait until 3 or 4 February to get the electric fix be not satisfactory ; that have to be sort out . my people in Strangford want action right now , not on 3 or 4 February . the hon . Gentleman be quite right to outline the situation and the consequence for his constituent . I totally share his concern about the prospect of people be without power for 10 day — as I say in my opening statement , that be too long — and that be why we be try to get as much help to Northern Ireland as quickly as possible to see whether we can reduce that time . the hon . Gentleman be right to highlight the plight of pensioner , who will be vulnerable in this situation . we be get as much help as we can to people on the ground . the engineer be work under difficult circumstance , and I support what they be do , but we be here to help as much as we can with his constituent . it be Northern Ireland that have have the bad of the storm , and it be Northern Ireland where the focus of our help effort be concentrate . we have have terrible flooding in my constituency because of storm É owyn . as I drive through my home village of Bampton yesterday , I see an elderly resident — Richard Hutter — desperately try to pull up the drain so that the water could be take from the high street . the wall between Withycombe and Rodhuish have fall into the stream , so there be water all over the road . at Exebridge , where the silt have not be take out from under the bridge for year , there be flood again — for probably the 10th time . nearly a decade of underfunding at the hand of the Conservative Administration , which oversee a 45 % cut in the local government settlement , have exacerbate subsidence , erosion and poor road condition . that have have dangerous consequence , as we have witness over the past few day . I ask this question more in hope than in expectation : will the Government revise the funding mechanism for local government to ensure that village such as those in Tiverton and Minehead be well protect from future adverse weather ? my sympathy go out to the hon . Lady ' s constituent — flooding be devastating for those who be affect by it — and I understand what she say about the consequence . I note what she say about funding . we have a well settlement for local authority this year than they have have in recent year , but I must say to she what I also say to conservative Members : all appeal for more funding , to be consistent , must be match by consistent support for the revenue measure need to raise that money in the first place . first , I thank the many worker who have work tirelessly in treacherous condition to restore power . I watch they on Saturday afternoon and Sunday . equally , I give sincere thank to the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster for the work that he do . I know from speak to the Deputy First Minister over the weekend and this morning before come to the House that she be very pleased with the response , effort and commitment that he have show to the people of Northern Ireland . that be an indication of how , by be part of the United Kingdom , we can draw on wide resource where there be willingness to do so . however , there be still many people without power in Northern Ireland . many people find it incomprehensible that some of the resource be send to Northern Ireland be go to the Republic rather than be use in Northern Ireland . will the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster address that ? an increase in the number of generator , people to fit they and so on would enable people who need machine for health and other reason to have supply in their home ahead of power be restore . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his kind comment . of course I take this seriously . as I say to the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , we want to do everything we can to get power restore for people who be without it . accord to the late figure I have see , we have send more than 100 engineer to Northern Ireland . that number will move . the electricity grid of Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland be physically link , so sometimes it might make sense in connect people to work on both side of the border . we will respond as positively as we can to request for generator to get help to people who need it . I join other in express the appreciation of the whole community for the hard work in the most difficult circumstance of those who have be try to reconnect we . I also join in the condolence to the family of those who have lose their life , include the family of a young father just outside my constituency who lose his life in an incident with a generator . I know personally some of his close relative , and the devastation be incredible . on the issue of mutual aid , which be more than welcome , can the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster tell we who pay for it , ultimately ? do the Treasury pick up the bill , or be the bill for the engineer , generator , chainsaw and all the rest of it ultimately pass to the Northern Ireland Executive , who seem to have be pretty ill - prepared give that they have have to go look for chainsaw ? I add my condolence to the family of the person the hon . and learn Gentleman refer to close to his constituency , and to the family of anyone who have lose their life as a consequence of what have happen in recent day . I have to be candid with he : when I have be discuss request for help for people in Northern Ireland , I have focus not on argue about the bill , but on get the generator , engineer , helicopter and other help that be need , because when people be without power , they want the help as quickly as possible . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I draw member ' attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . my point of order relate to comment by minister on their plan to impose local government restructuring . at oral question on 20 January , the Minister for Local Government and English Devolution assert : " the Government be not require any area to reorganise … this be a bottom - up reorganisation be request by local council " . — [ Official Report , 20 January 2025 ; Vol . 760 , c . 720 - 721 . ] however , in answer to a write question on 16 January , the same Minister write : " all level of local government have a part to play in bring improved structure to their area through reorganisation , and we expect all council in an area to work together to develop unitary proposal " . labour ' s devolution White Paper also pledge to legislate to create a ministerial direction power to force such restructuring through . this be not bottom - up reorganisation . minister have an obligation under the 1997 resolution on ministerial accountability to give accurate answer to Parliament . I seek your advice , Madam Deputy Speaker , on whether contradictory answer be compatible with that resolution . I thank the hon . gentleman for provide prior notice of his point of order . as he will know , I be not responsible for ministerial answer to question , but he have put his point on the record very clearly and I be sure that those on the Treasury Bench will have note his comment . Creative Industries I beg to move , that this House have consider the creative industry . I have of course note the point of order that be just raise , and I will pass on the comment and make sure that an answer be provide . I should declare an interest of my own in this debate . two of my book be optione , one to Mother Films and another to Path é , so if we stray into talk about film and high - end television , I will have to be careful . [ interruption . ] have member come across Paddington and his stare before ? the UK be home to world - class creative industry ; I think we can all agree about that . every single day , our art and culture bring joy to million of people , not just in our four nation but all over the world . they be part of our soft power , part of our economic power and part of the joy that we give to the world . they enrich our life , they bring our community together and they drive our economy . these be industry power by extraordinary artist , musician , dancer , publisher , architect and game designer who , year after year , find way to break out of the straitjacket of conformity . I know this because on Saturday night I go to see the Matthew Bourne version of " Swan Lake " , and if that be not an example of people break out of the straitjacket of conformity , I do not know what be . while government of every stripe have appreciate the social value of our creative industry — some more than other — many have underprice the huge economic potential of industry that be already among our most powerful engine of growth . this Government understand the true economic value that these industry have now and can have in the future . they generate £ 125 billion for the economy in 2023 . they account for one in 14 job across the country now , and I would guess that by 2029 that will be one in 10 . they have show growth at one and a half time the rate of the rest of our economy in the past decade , despite all the economic headwind they and we have face . today , we be the third large art market in the world , large than all the european art market combine , and I want to make sure that we remain at the top of that list . only the USA export more advertising than we , and nobody export more book than we — although not necessarily mine . to put this in perspective , our creative industry be worth more to the economy in 2022 than three of our heavyweight sector — aerospace , life science and automotive industry — combine . when we think about growth , our first thought should therefore be of the creative industry , and I be proud that that be precisely how this government be view they . I would argue that these industry have manage all this in spite of , not always in partnership with , their Government over the past 14 year . they have be build by ordinary people do extraordinary thing : rule breaker , convention breaker and trend defier who have pioneer thousand of small revolution in our art and culture . I believe that with a genuine partner in Government — one that bulldoze barrier , that create stability and certainty for business and international investor , that collaborate with business and artist as equal partner to turbocharge growth , that do not try to persuade every ballerina in the country to retrain , and that ensure that creative education be at the heart of all our education in school and that every single child in this country do not go through their education without a proper creative education — we can create even great british success story . I observe no Paddington stare . the point be well make about young people start off and grow into the creative industry . the pantomime and local amateur dramatic that I get involve in be the seedcorn of these thing by get kid on stage , but do the Minister agree that if the local newspaper go down — and so many of they be in danger right across the UK — those thing will not get the publicity and support that help to grow the industry ? the hon . Gentleman ask four question in one , which be quite creative of he . he say he be involve with pantomime ; some of we on the Labour Benches would say that he have be in pantomime for much of his political career . he make an important point about journalism , which be a very important creative industry in this country . the Under - Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport , my hon . friend the Member for Barnsley South ( Stephanie Peacock ) , who be sit beside I , have responsibility for print journalism . she take ensure the survival of local journalism very seriously . how on earth could people otherwise hear story from their local community ? there be also a job to do on tackle misinformation . if the only information people ever hear about their local community come from social medium , a lot of it might not be as accurate as we would like . will the Minister give way ? I give way to the most irresistible man in the room . I thank the Minister for set the scene so positively . do he agree that one of the great benefit of this United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland be that all the culture and region come together ? if I have the chance , later I will talk about Northern Ireland ' s contribution . we can all gain if we work together . I agree 100 % . so many programme make in Northern Ireland be an intrinsic part of what the UK have to offer . I be not sure whether " Derry Girls " be necessarily the hon . Gentleman ' s thing , but it be one of the funniest programme we have see in many year . " Game of Thrones , " of course , be make in Northern Ireland , and many northern irish actor have do extraordinarily well on the british scene , and on a much wide canvas . I be particularly stimulate by the fact that Albert Finney and Glenda Jackson be bear on the same day . those work - class kid both end up go to the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art and have phenomenal acting career , with Oscars , award and so on . where be the Albert Finneys and Glenda Jacksons of the future ? whether they come from Northern Ireland , Scotland , Wales or a difficult estate in England — even Stoke - on - Trent — we will have fail so many of our young people if the only school that provide a real creative education , in art , music or drama , be the eton of this country , and we will not have the creative industry we need . since last July , creative business have be nothing but straight with we about what be hold they back , and this Government have hear they loud and clear . they want investment , innovation , international competitiveness and skill . each one of these have to be a litmus test for what we be do as a Department and as a Government . today , I want to set out some of the challenge , as we see they , and what this government be do to address they . our starting point , right across Government , have be an appreciation of what the creative industry give we . they be not a " nice to have " or a cherry on the cake ; they be an essential part of who we be as a country and what we be try to achieve as a Government . we be very aware that brand like the BBC and the Premier League be an important part of our soft power around the world , which be one of the reason why the Foreign Secretary and the Culture Secretary recently launch the Soft Power Council , because we think we can do far more with that . People sometimes focus on the BBC , which I work for many moon ago . I remember get into a taxi in Brussels , and the driver ask I what I do . I say that I work for the BBC , and he say , " oh , I love the BBC and all those wonderful tv programme : ' Inspector Morse ' and ' Brideshead Revisited . ' " he basically give I a long list of ITV programme . will the Minister give way ? again ? " the Traitors , " which attract 7 . 4 million viewer on the BBC last Friday , be film at Ardross castle in my constituency . I be at a tourism conference last Thursday , and our tourism offer be especially good at give people the opportunity to visit place where film have be make . one of the big investor in our country in the past few year have be Tom Cruise , who have another film come out in the near future . many film location be wonderful place for tourist visit . I notice the hon . Gentleman have go from panto to " the Traitors " — need I say more ? of course , " the Traitors " be originally a dutch format , but the BBC have make it well than anybody else make it , and have give it new life . I will not spoil it for anyone , but I think the final episode be very unfair , end as it do . from the outset , the Chancellor and the Secretary of State for Business and Trade make our creative sector one of eight growth - drive industry at the heart of our industrial strategy . my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport and I be develop a long - term sector plan , along with Baroness Shriti Vadera and Sir Peter Bazalgette . I commend the hon . gentleman on the passionate case he be make for investment in the art . do he recognise the work of Darren Henley and Arts Council England ? I suspect that we have all receive copy of the third edition of Darren Henley ' s book , which set out very clearly the case for public investment in the art and the multipli effect that have . in the month run up to the comprehensive spending review , be it not essential that the whole sector come together to ensure the hon . Gentleman be well equipped to go into battle with Treasury official ? the right hon . Gentleman use to be a Treasury Minister , so perhaps he can give we some tip on how we can secure that funding . I note that since July last year , conservative mp have develop a tendency to call for more expenditure and less taxation on thing . I gently suggest to he that those two thing do not meet together . if he give I tip on how I can get more money out of the Treasury , I will give he tip on how to talk about demand more money . the right hon . Gentleman make an important point about the sector : some of our big creative industry be completely commercially focus , include publishing , architecture , advertising and video game . however , I have try to make the argument that the sector be a whole ecosystem ; we do not get great british film and a great british film industry without a great british theatre industry , and we do not get a great british commercial theatre industry without have a subsidised theatre industry as well . we need to foster a combination of broadcaster , subsidise perform art and commercially centre creative industry , and build on that . the right hon . Gentleman refer to Arts Council England . as he know , we have initiate a full review of how Arts Council England work , to ensure that the money do what it be intend to do around the whole of England . the review will be lead by Baroness Margaret Hodge , who will be doughty — I think that be the good word — and I look forward to see what she come up with . the hon . Gentleman talk about the ecosystem , but he have do something that we have not see for a long time : he have unite every creative sector in opposition to his plan to water down copyright . copyright have underpin the success of our creative industry and make they global powerhouse . yesterday , Sir Paul McCartney warn against those plan , and speak about what could happen to all creative industry . do the hon . Gentleman take on board what he say , and will he revisit the plan ? as I have say to the hon . Gentleman privately , and be happy to say again in public , I do not believe for a single instant that the legislation that we will eventually put to the House will undermine or water down our copyright regime in this country . it have be absolutely essential to the creative industry that they own their intellectual property and can control their right to it , and we will not change that . however , we face a real problem in this country , as do many country around the world , which be that there be legal uncertainty around — indicate dissent . there be such legal uncertainty that the matter be be contest in different court case around the world . this afternoon , I meet Getty Images , which have bring one such case . we can not simply wait for the court case to resolve the matter for we somehow . I be sure that the hon . Gentleman would endorse element of the consultation — for instance , those around transparency . let we have that conversation . it be a genuine consultation . early this afternoon , I say to my office that I be very happy for Sir Paul McCartney to come in ; we can talk it all through with he . the Minister talk about the ecosystem and bring together all the sector . there be no well example in this country — perhaps in the world — than the Edinburgh international festival , which bring all the sector together . Edinburgh be also a heartland of small venue . what will the Government do to help small venue , which have be suffer for five or six year , to cope with the national insurance change , because they be employer and be be hit by they ? the hon . Lady make a very good point about the Edinburgh festival ; I hope that the Hansard Reporters hear the " s " at the end . sometimes people just refer to the Edinburgh international festival , but there be a series of festival , include book and television festival . that ecosystem have manage to grow and grow ; it be precisely the kind of thing that we want to do . another element of the Edinburgh international festival be that there be a cluster there . the previous Government rightly identify that where we can create a cluster around a creative industry , we stand a great chance of build it and enable great growth . for instance , Royal Leamington Spa be a cluster for the video game industry , as be Dundee . there be various cluster around the country ; that be something that we want to build on . the hon . Lady ask about small venue . as she may know , we have back the call make in the previous Parliament by the Chair of the Culture , Media and Sport Committee , the hon . member for Gosport ( Dame Caroline Dinenage ) — I want to call she the Secretary of State — for a voluntary levy on ticket for gig in arena to provide money for small venue . I be very hopeful about that . I be push as hard as I can for the industry to adopt the measure on a voluntary basis , but we have make it very clear that if it do not , we will make it happen on a statutory basis . I hope that we can move forward on that relatively soon . likewise , many small venue in the hospitality industry think that there would be a cliff edge at the end of March for the 70 % relief on business rate . we have say that the relief will be 40 % , and there will be a renewal of and change to business rate in future year . we be try to help small music venue in all those way , but in the end , if there be nobody to perform in a small music venue , it be not a small music venue . that be why I return to the effort to ensure that we have creative education in all our school . as hon . member will be aware , there be many creative business in this country that have a great idea or product and be ready to expand , but can not access the finance that they need to take their growth to the next level . like every part of the UK economy , the creative industry have amazing start - up that struggle to scale up . as a first step to address that all - important finance barrier , the British Business Bank , which support over £ 17 billion in finance for business , commit in the last week to increase the scale of its support for the creative industry . possibly one of the most important thing that we can do over the next couple of year be try to improve access to finance for all our creative business , whether at the moment of their inception , at the point of scale - up , or when they be 10 year in . we should back venture capital fund invest in UK creative industry , and support expert who understand the unique strength of the sector in the UK . to provide creative business across the country with the support that they need to scale up , we have confirm over £ 16 million of funding for the Create Growth programme . in addition , we be back early - stage game developer with £ 5 . 5 million funding for the Dundee - base UK game fund . we want the next generation of hit UK game to be make across the UK . I welcome the measure the Government be bring in to support our important creative industry . those business also need a talent pipeline , and my constituency have a world - lead art university and a high education and further education system support film , television and game development . what be the Government do to support that talent pipeline and our educational institution ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . indeed , I have often wonder whether we should have a specific programme for her area , because she be right that there be a concentration of course , university and business devoted to those same industry . I would be happy to meet she , and perhaps if she would like to come into the Department , we could go through some of the specific about how we will be assist in her area . the Minister make the good point that creative industry need to be back with finance that they can access . will he ensure that grassroot , small - scale project away from the big city , such as on the Isle of Wight where my constituency be , receive the finance they need , so we can realise our aim and endeavour of get a film studio set up ? I have hear tell of a film studio in the hon . member ' s constituency , so I wonder whether he be go to refer to that . obviously , the previous Government and this Government have be commit in different way to ensure that we expand the provision of film studio space in the country . we be almost up to the level of have more space than Hollywood , and we be keen to progress that . again , if he want to come into the Department and talk about the specific of what we might be able to do in his constituency , I would be happy to do that . he be right that sometimes we have focus on the massive project , but we can not get many massive project in the creative industry without start with the small and medium - sized business , and that be where we need to go . one thing that have stand in the way of film studio for quite some time be the re - evaluation of business rate . I be glad that we have get to a much more sensible position over the past 12 month on the matter . likewise , planning application have be phenomenally difficult in many case . we be proud to put £ 25 million into the Crown Works studio in Gateshead , which I look forward to visit soon . one of the principal barrier to innovation in 2025 be that not enough investment be go into research and development in the creative industry , and I know the Select Committee have look at that . it be why the Prime Minister ' s Council for Science and Technology recommend that " public investment in R & D in the creative industry should reflect the size , economic contribution , and future growth potential of the sector . " that be why we confirm early this month that we will strengthen the investment from our national research funding agency — UK Research and Innovation — into creative research and development . another part of the equation be , of course , tax relief . one of the great catalyst for the strong growth of our creative industry have be target tax relief for different sector , introduce by both the Conservative Government and this Labour Government . we build on those relief in our first 100 day in government , with an enhanced independent film tax credit to support home - grow talent and UK co - production and an enhance tax relief for visual effect from the start of this year . that tax relief send a clear message to our director , visual effect artist and actor : " be courageous , take risk and reap the reward . your Government be behind you . " I hope to be able to say more on film and high - end television at the Select Committee tomorrow morning — I be sure the Committee have some difficult question for I . on skill , education and the workforce , we want to see more good - quality creative job and more creative business pop up across the country . but too often what I hear from young people be that they could no more dream of get those job than go to the moon . that be not just a tragic waste of human potential ; it be bad business . that be why Steven Knight , the creator of " Peaky Blinders " , who be work to bring a film school to Birmingham , be recruit and train 20 % of the workforce from local postcode , and I applaud he . it be essential for investor to know that they do not have to incur the cost of ship people in to work on a project when that talent exist everywhere , but the opportunity do not . that be why we make it a core priority in our manifesto to improve access to the art and music as part of our opportunity mission . we waste no time in get that work under way , with the Education Secretary launch an expert - lead independent curriculum and assessment review within a month of the general election . on top of that , we provide a furth £ 3 million to expand the creative career programme , so that we can broaden and diversify the talent pipeline in the creative industry . only by restore culture ' s place in the classroom and beyond will we be able to get young people ready for the creative job of tomorrow . we set up Skills England to work with employer and to help give we a coherent national picture of where skill gap exist and how they can be address through further qualification and technical education . in its first report , Skills England highlight the importance of the creative industry for both current and future opportunity and growth . we also need to ensure that there be opportunity in the workplace . we know that apprenticeship can be incredible springboard into creative career , but that rely on there be a levy that work in the interest of employer and apprentice . for year before the general election , I hear repeatedly from the creative industry how difficult it be to use the apprenticeship levy in their industry . if someone be make a film , it might be a six , seven or eight - month project , which be not enough to meet the previous criterion for the apprenticeship levy . that be why I be really proud that we be work with Skills England to transform the apprenticeship levy into a new growth and skill levy , to create opportunity and provide great flexibility for employer and apprenticeship . we plan to bring forward change so that short apprenticeship be available from August 2025 , recognise the particular need of the creative industry . a 12 - month apprenticeship be no good for employer who need skill for project that be short than that . we be knock down that needless hurdle . for sector such as music , the grassroot be always where it all begin . we be therefore not only continue to support Arts Council England ' s support grassroots music fund , but work up a 12 - point plan for music — it say 10 - point plan here , but when I look at it this morning , it be already a 12 - point plan . the truth of the matter be that music be a vital part of our life , whether it be classical music , opera , pop music or heavy metal , which some people like — I see the former Secretary of State , the right hon . member for Maldon ( Sir John Whittingdale ) , nod in a heavy metal sort of way ; he have to be careful at his age , although I think he be young than I be . the point be that we all have our different taste in music , but we know how important it be to people ' s enjoyment of life and to their be able to express themselves . there be also nothing as important as be able to go to a live music event . one thing we be work very hard on — I make a statement about it early this year — be try to make sure that the secondary ticket market , which have behave in a frankly duplicitous and often parasitical way towards the music industry , be bring to heel and actually operate in the interest of fan . I also want to talk about export . we have some remarkable export strength in the creative industry . publishing achieve year - on - year growth and be now worth £ 11 . 6 billion to our economy , with export income account for almost 60 % of its revenue . we be the large book exporter in the world , and we should be proud of it . however , we need more success story like publishing , and we need to make sure that the problem that publishing be have with export book — for instance , to the European Union — be overcome . if we be to have such success story , we need to fix some of the issue that the last Government unfortunately fail to address , such as touring . if we want the next generation of Ed Sheerans , Dua Lipas , Adeles and Stormzys to stand any chance of break into new market , they must be able to perform overseas without have to navigate a maze of rule and regulation . that be why we be engage with the EU and EU member state to find an answer that improve arrangement for tour across the european continent , without see a return to free movement . that equally apply to the art market . artwork be be bring to the UK to be sell in the UK art market , where they might command the high price , but they be face great difficulty enter the country . that be the kind of thing we also need to sort out . order . the Minister be give a very substantial speech , but he have be on his foot for 30 minute . hopefully he will be come to a conclusion at some point . I be afraid that I inherit this speech , Madam Deputy Speaker , but I will try to shut up as soon as I possibly can . [ hon . member : " hear , hear ! " ] I think I have unite the House there . that be very unkind — I feel a bit upset now . it will not have escape hon . member that the challenge I have outline today be all interconnect . as I have say , we can not have thrive creative business without creative talent with the right skill . we will not see strong export growth number if business be unable to access the finance they need to expand . the independent film tax relief will be worth nothing if we do not have a curriculum that value culture and foster , champion and promote creativity . that be why we be focus on the whole creative ecosystem — from the first spark of inspiration in the classroom , through the first leap into the unknown at a theatre or grassroot music venue , to get the first foot on the ladder to take a local business national or a national business global . this Government recognise that it all matter , and through the partnership I have speak about today , we hope to make sure that growth in those industry continue for many decade to come . I call the shadow Minister . it really be a pleasure to speak in today ' s debate . right at the outset , I apologise that I will not be here for the closing of the debate , because I have to travel back to Leeds for a funeral tomorrow . as the Minister say , our creative industry be world lead . with limitless creativity , imagination and entrepreneurial spirit , our creative industry be fundamental to the UK economy , and the contribution they make have often be underappreciated . these industry generate £ 124 billion a year and employ over 2 . 4 million people in every corner of the country , and as we have hear , grow the economy mean grow our creative industry — even if there be a desperate attempt by the Minister to boost his book sale during his speech . the importance of the creative industry go beyond the economy . they provide the news that inform our democracy , the event that showcase our talent and the film that we all love . the imagination of our designer , writer , artist and creator be world lead and bring joy , inspiration and opportunity to our life . it be testament to the UK be a world leader in many thing , event include , give the phenomenal success of event such as the Olympics and other sporting event , the coronation and , of course , the eurovision song contest . a moment ago , my right hon . friend the Member for Salisbury ( John Glen ) mention Darren Henley ' s book . he actually mention I in that book as the first and only Minister for the Eurovision song contest . it be probably the only position I have hold in government that my partner be actually interested in . do we win ? no . for all the reason I have mention , we as conservative back our creative industry in government . our record on support the creative industry speak for itself : between 2010 and 2022 , those industry grow at more than twice the rate of UK gross value add , expand by more than 50 % . More than 1 million new job be create in the sector during that period . during the pandemic , we introduce unprecedented support for the creative industry , include the £ 1 . 57 billion culture recovery fund , the £ 500 million film and tv production restart scheme , and the £ 800 million live event reinsurance scheme . that support protect over 5 , 000 organisation and support 220 , 000 job , ensure that our creative industry have be able to bounce back . our commitment to support the creative industry also extend to significant tax relief . we introduce over £ 1 billion of tax relief for the creative industry , include support for filmmaker through the UK independent film tax credit and business rate relief for theatre and cultural venue . this investment complement our creative industry sector deal , which put £ 350 million of public and private investment into the sector . a key example be the £ 37 million and the new devolve power to the North East mayoral combine authority to create a film and tv powerhouse up in the north - east , which will enable £ 450 million of private investment to build the new Crown Works studio . this be an important measure as we seek to spread the opportunity for the creative industry right across the United Kingdom . we publish a sector vision set out our ambition to grow the creative industry by £ 50 billion and to create 1 million extra job in the creative sector . this sector vision set out not warm word or platitude , but a real plan back by real investment . our plan include a £ 28 million investment in the Create Growth programme to support high - growth creative business across the UK ; an additional £ 50 million for the second wave of the creative industry cluster programme , build on the £ 56 million announce in 2018 ; and £ 3 . 2 million for the music export growth scheme to enable emerge artist to break into new international market . it be a real plan back by real investment to grow our creative industry by £ 50 billion . personally , I do not doubt any of the Ministers ' personal ambition for the creative sector . where the Government be ambitious , we will always seek to be a constructive opposition , because the potential to grow be huge and the UK have such a great reputation . equally , we will do our job by highlight the impact when choice make by the Government pose a significant risk to the sector , because that be the right thing to do . in opposition , Labour Members promise to " fire up the engine of our creative economy " , and say that they would make the creative industry " central to a decade of national renewal " . that be a great ambition , which make it even more confusing that Labour fail to support every single tax relief the Conservatives introduce for these industry after 2010 . I be afraid to say that the reality so far be that significant harm be be do by the Government . in the Chancellor ' s Budget of broken promise , Labour drive the tax burden up to its high level , surpass the amount after the second world war . far from fire up the economy , they have extinguish growth by introduce a national insurance job tax that will cost employer in DCMS sector £ 2 . 8 billion . I be enjoy the right hon . Gentleman ' s speech , but while he be talk about the last Government ' s record , could he tell I how their plan to defund dozen of creative BTecs and their denigration of creative subject as Mickey Mouse degree give people seek to study those subject any confidence that they can go into the pipeline of talent he have talk about ? I think we have absolutely show our commitment , as I have just illustrate , to the creative industry and to want to grow they . equally , we want to make sure that the course people be do equip they well for the opportunity of the future , and I do not see that there be anything wrong in always raise such question . the shadow Minister say that we — Labour Members in opposition — vote against every single tax relief for the creative industry , but he know perfectly well that we support every single one of they and that we originally initiate they . can I just suggest that we stop this silliness ? I be guess that at some point conservative Members will vote against the Third Reading of the Finance Bill , which will have a tax relief in it , and if that mean that we start say that they vote against every tax relief , it will be a nonsense . it would be well if we all just grow up , and start say that we all support tax relief for the creative industry . give that the Minister have just be go on about 14 year of the last Conservative Government , I find that a bit hypocritical , but that do not surprise I . the Government have also slash retail , hospitality and leisure relief , and set out plan to burden business with more than 70 radical 1970s - style regulation , impose £ 4 . 5 billion of additional cost on business . I be worried that there seem to have be a failure to protect the creative industry from the Chancellor ' s growth - kill Budget , just as the Department fail to protect they from the Deputy Prime Minister ' s radical Employment Rights Bill . I welcome the £ 60 million support package , but will it touch the side when measure against the impact of the Budget ? do not take it from I — take it from Arts Council England , which warn that the Government ' s national insurance job tax will have " significant implication for cultural organisation . " take it from the Music Venue Trust , which have warn that change to retail , hospitality and leisure relief will put more than 350 grassroot music venue at " imminent risk of closure , represent the potential loss of more than 12 , 000 job , over £ 250 million in economic activity and the loss of over 75 , 000 live music event . " I be sure that , like I , the right hon . Gentleman have receive a whole series of brief from sector across the creative industry . their main concern be the possibility of a copyright exception and the watering down of our copyright regime . that be the thing that unite they in anger against this Government , yet the Minister do not even think to mention it in his half an hour or so of peroration . what be the conservative party ' s view on that issue , and will it work with we to try to oppose it ? from the meeting I have have with the sector , I can say that the hon . Gentleman be right that that be one of the main issue that people be concern about , but equally , they be very worried about the impact that national insurance contribution will have on they . I recognise that these be difficult and challenging issue , and we obviously want to work as constructively as we can on they , but we will hold the Government to account . it be not just I that be say all this . take it from the chief executive of the Curve theatre , who warn that the Employment Rights Bill will have a financial knock - on for all theatre . the change to business property relief will have a significant impact on historic house — the setting for many iconic drama and film such as " Downton Abbey " . the impact of those change be significant . I regret to say that the bad news for our creative industry do not end there , because unfortunately it be clear that Labour do not have a plan . it scrap the Conservative Government ' s review of Arts Council England , then launch a new review start from square one . it spend more than five month in government before make any announcement on AI and the creative industry , quietly sneak out a consultation eight day before Christmas , hope no one would notice . to top it all off , they publish a press release boast about confirm the Conservative Government ' s independent film tax credit . as I say , I will work constructively with the Government , but they must take their finger out of their ear and recognise that the choice they have make be potentially crush our world - lead creative industry from be even great success . we want to build on the great success by people who over the year have do so much to build up the amazing creative industry we have in this country . our creative industry be world lead , but they need stability and certainty to survive . there be lot of opportunity , but also a host of challenge , include the Budget implication , AI and copyright . we stand to work constructively with the Government where they seek to be ambitious , but equally , when we hear concern , as we have over and over again in our meeting with the sector , we will push and challenge . in conclusion , the UK can be proud of our amazing creative industry . whether it be our fashion designer , film , tv , radio , photography , museum , gallery , library , music or perform art , they offer real opportunity to this country ' s economy and be something that we can be proud of . yes , they provide a great deal of soft power , but if we be not careful , we be in danger of damage they beyond belief . I ask the Department to press the Treasury to think again about the impact of the Budget choice that it make on the sector . as well as a rich industrial and political heritage , Newport have a vibrant community of creative and creative industry , so it be good to have the opportunity to highlight they in Government time and , later on , to shamelessly plug some of the local band that I like . creative business in Newport generate a not insignificant turnover of around £ 400 million annually . those 555 business employ more than 5 , 000 people locally , and that do not even account for the number of talented freelancer . many of these enterprise be microbusinesse — small but mighty , much like Newport — and together they form the lifeblood of our grassroots art and culture scene and give future performer the space and opportunity to develop . Newport be home to an extraordinary wealth of talent , from theatre practitioner and visual artist to community connector — people who dedicate themselves to bring art and culture to life in our city . we have local champion such as John Hallam from Maindee Unlimited , Loren Henry of Urban Circle , George Harris of Tin Shed Theatre , and Juls Benson of Reality Theatre , among many other . for year , they have work to ensure that access to the creative industry in Newport be inclusive . an example of that be the brilliant Operasonic , which be support a band form by the city ' s Roma community call Newport Boys . it be not just about live performance . thank to our striking industrial and natural landscape , and our distinctive architecture , Newport have become a veritable filming hotspot in the UK . for more than two decade , it have be a familiar backdrop for " Doctor who " , and Newport be recently showcase in the new S4C series " Ar y Ffin " . Newport be prominently feature in ITV ' s " out there " and Netflix ' s " Sex Education " . support those production be state - of - the - art studio such as Urban Myth and Studio Arth , both locate in my constituency , where global streaming project be be create all the time . the Minister mention the talent pipeline , and much work be be do to develop and find the many skill we need locally in this industry . any contribution about Newport ' s creative industry would not be complete without celebrate our music scene , which have see a remarkable renaissance . that fact be recently recognise by the NME . I be delighted to join Sam Dabb and the team at Le Pub to celebrate the building ' s purchase , with help from the UK Government , by Music Venue Properties . that be set up by the Music Venue Trust , which launch its annual report here last week . for more than three decade , Le Pub have stand as the cornerstone of Newport ' s music culture , and it be great that it have be safeguard for future generation as a space to grow new band . band that have emerge from Le Pub recently include the brilliant bug Club , hail from Monmouthshire , alongside Newport ' s own Murder Club , the Rogues , Joe Kelly & the Royal Pharmacy , Failstate , Jack Perrett and many other . there be also a new generation of artist , such as a new band call Hairdye , who be get much attention . Newport be fortunate to have many other grassroots venue , include McCann ' s , the Cab and the volunteer - lead Corn Exchange , all of which will be part of the upcoming Newport music trail , a free two - day festival in the city centre in March . Newport be , indeed , a cultural powerhouse , but to ensure that it continue to thrive , we must ensure that this cultural renaissance in our city be not just celebrate , but support . I be therefore pleased that the Government , along with the Welsh Government and Newport city council , recognise the importance of the creative industry as a driver of economic growth and social wellbeing . in the draft budget this year , the Welsh Government be commit to support the hospitality sector with 40 % non - domestic rate relief . that build on the £ 1 billion of support allocate to retail , hospitality and leisure rate relief scheme since 2020 . we also should not forget the additional 25 % rate relief that Newport council offer to help eligible small venue and business . increase funding opportunity to support grassroots organisation and venue will only help they flourish far . the £ 1 ticket levy for arena and big gig event to support small music venue will have a big impact , and I welcome the Minister ' s commitment to make that mandatory if the live event industry do not do it voluntarily . work to tear down the barrier to touring will also be crucial for the continued success not just of british performer and their art , but of our talented sound engineer and the haulage industry . an update on that work be much welcome . with the right investment and a Government who truly understand the untapped potential of our world - lead creative industry , we can continue to build on that success and secure Newport ' s creative legacy for generation to come . I look forward to welcome the Minister to Newport whenever he can come . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the Minister refer to his great creative output , which apparently be hit bookshelf soon . I be afraid I can not match that — a Jaffa Cake haiku , which be cruelly overlook by the McVitie ' s marketing department , and a local news story about gnome be ban from the graveyard in Wrington in north Somerset be as good as I can muster . the creative industry be the lifeblood of our nation ' s cultural wellbeing , and we neglect they at our peril . we must never ignore the voice of creator themselves . this weekend , many of we will have be disturb to see the interview give by Paul McCartney about the challenge that AI pose to the creative industry and to creator . the Government be correct to pursue artificial intelligence as a route to solve problem in our public service , boost economic growth and create new job . nobody would argue with suggestion for speed up and improve nhs treatment , remove pointless interaction with local council or smooth out bureaucracy for business in their interaction with Government Departments . in the creative art , however , we have a very different challenge , and the Government must not put at risk the value of human creativity . I will make no luddite argument in this House — as the MP for the constituency that be home to the most influential cyber - cluster outside London , that would be daft . I be pro - business and pro - technology , as be the Liberal Democrats . I regard myself as a techno - optimist . innovation be not just desirable but necessary . however , it be not an absolute , particularly when we be discuss threat to human creativity . I know that because my constituency be home not just to a cyber - cluster , but to a creative powerhouse . Cheltenham festival bring visitor from around the world . because we be a creative powerhouse , I receive plenty of communication from creative in Cheltenham . Robin , a composer , tell I that he could no long advise young creative to rely on a job in the industry , because it simply will not pay . he tell I that thing will get bad if the change to copyright go through . let we consider for a moment the ability of the human mind to compose a tear - jerk piece of music , or of the delicate human hand to paint an evocative landscape or write prose to persuade , inspire , or move the reader . that be innately human . such creative endeavour can and do change the world . it bring we growth , and so much more besides . there be no doubt that technology have an important and positive role to play in this process , and it be already do so . technology and creative content must work side by side , but if original human creator be not compensate by default , we risk a future not of glorious , creative technicolour but of many shade of pale grey . some have already warn that we risk a future of infinite pale grey , in which there be no incentive for human to initiate any creative process whatsoever . it would be a dereliction of duty by member of this House if they fail to engage with that risk as part of this discussion and the ongoing discussion about AI . last week , along with other mp , some of whom be in the Chamber this evening , I join a meeting with a tech company and one of its social medium creator . I will not name the company or the creator ; that would not be fair and would not add much to the debate . we be tell of the huge growth potential for creator that the online and social medium world present . we be tell that creator be employ team of people to produce their content — a big job boost . during the discussion , they be ask what happen to job growth when a creator ' s work be crawl by AI to the extent that it be reproduce hundred , thousand or even an infinite number of time . if an answer come , however , it be not comprehensive or persuasive . the mood music suggest that the Government and big tech firm favour an opt - out approach for creator , place burden on individual musician , artist and writer to protect their work . I ask an expert about the potential risk of an opt - out approach and receive an illuminate answer . the expert tell I : " for human creator , an opt - in model generally offer strong protection . " the first reason for that be control , as " creator retain explicit control over how their work be use by AI " . the second be compensation , as " an opt - in system could be link to licensing agreement , allow creator to receive compensation for the use of their work in AI training " . I be listen very carefully to the hon . Gentleman , and he be spot on about some of the danger and threat pose to the sector by generative AI . do he agree that there be a way to do this that could benefit and serve both AI and the creative industry , but that it will not involve a clearly unworkable opt - out approach ? indeed , it have never be explain how exactly that would work . will he encourage other colleague to look at work together to ensure we get a solution for both sector ? the hon . Gentleman be entirely right . I agree that the concept of opt - out and opt - in need to be pursue at great length . thirdly , the expert tell I that the preservation of value offer strong protection : " by require explicit permission , an opt - in model help maintain the value of original creative work . " the expert do point out two drawback . first , an opt - in approach have potential drawback in the form of an extra administrative burden on creator . interestingly , this expert ' s second list drawback be that an opt - in model would place limit on AI ' s ability to gather datum for training and development , which do not seem to I like much of a drawback for creator . I ask that very same expert what would happen if creator lose their intellectual property right to AI . the expert tell I there be a risk of " a loss of income and motivation , a devaluation of creative work , ethical concern , legal uncertainty " and , intriguingly , " domination by AI operator . " I use the word " intriguingly " because this expert seem aware of its own power — the expert be Google Gemini . at this stage , those consideration be unknown , and there be much uncertainty . Google Gemini be pull information produce mostly thank to human endeavour and discussion source from across the internet , but the fact that this view be be present by AI itself surely suggest there be cause for some concern . our role as parliamentarian must be to protect the interest of human , not big tech company ; to scrutinise the proposal of big tech company ; to avoid the luddite tendency , crucially ; and to build in suitable safeguard . as the Minister , I do not want to intervene too much . I sympathise with a great deal of what the hon . Gentleman have say . one of my concern , however , be that if this country legislate in a particular direction , in order to reinforce copyright in the way that several hon . member have suggest , the danger be that company would simply train overseas , use the UK ' s creative talent and intellectual property without any form of remuneration whatsoever . that be why I think it be really important that we get to a place where we have both side work together . of course . the Minister will not be surprised to hear that I will be move on to that in a moment . if , against the will of the creative industry , the Government be to proceed with an opt - out approach — I hope they do not — it seem logical that such an approach must come with strong safeguard , which may come in the form of automatic attribution , in order to identify the creative inspiration for any work that have be crawl and reproduce . however , more importantly , we need suitable level of compensation to be automatically award . in short , if the big tech company want default access to our creator ' work , they must expect the default to be that they pay for it . tech firm will argue that an opt - in approach , or one that place the burden on they , would place we out of step with other nation , and I accept that that might be the case . however , let we look at it from another perspective . be the suggestion that we might give our creative industry more respect really such a terrible idea ? I do not think so . give the widespread threat to the UK ' s creative industry from this and other economic circumstance , I would suggest not . have touch on AI , I will now address a few other subject more briefly . first , I turn to the unfashionable topic of Brexit . the previous Conservative Government ' s disastrous Brexit deal exclude artistic provision , and the effect of that be reflect in a shocking statistic : between 2017 and 2023 , we suffer a 23 % drop in the number of british artist tour the EU . the Liberal Democrats back free and simple short - term travel arrangement for UK artist to perform in the European Union . secondly , I turn to education . it be well know that change to policy in the past decade or so have diminish art education in state school , with more than 40 % of school now no long enter student for GCSE music or drama , and almost 90 % not offer GCSE dance . university be also scale back their art offering . the liberal Democrats would restore art subject to the core of the curriculum , ensure that every child have the opportunity to study music , dance , drama and the visual art . finally , I turn to local government . local council be historically the single big funder of culture in their area , but their spending power have be much reduce . there be a risk that as part of the devolution process , and as local government reorganisation happen , additional pressure will be place on social care and child ' s service . although those thing need attention , we must not allow the art to be force far to the fringe of public spending debate . on the funding of local art and theatre , my constituency have a wonderful local theatre call the Capitol , which be own and manage by the district council . however , our council be likely to be merge with some debt - laden neighbouring council , with some of the responsibility my hon . friend have outline , and that pose a severe threat to the theatre ' s long - term survival . do he agree that the Government need to look at inventive way to reverse the decline in local funding ? one option would be to emulate France ' s patronage law , which provide for 60 % tax relief on donation to art organisation . that sound like a good idea . I think there be some really logical way we could do this by ringfence some asset for local value — attach they to car park , which be already produce revenue in local area . there be creative way that different local area could do that . however , it be a concern , and I do not think that discussion on this matter have be have as part of the discussion on devolution and local government reorganisation . I want to go back slightly to the point about health and social care spend by local authority . be there a good argument to be make that as more and more people require social care and support , particularly in care home , there may be advantage in invest in the art and culture in order to take they to people who would otherwise find they difficult to access ? the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right . old people in care home can benefit from such creative outlet — both from have people bring art and culture to they , and from day out at our local cultural institution . as some of the challenge we face be global , I will finish with a look at how other government be support their creative sector . since 2010 , Germany , France and Finland have all increase their budget . in the same period , the UK reduce its budget for art and culture provision by 6 % . more recently , government of EU nation and other around the world have begin spend more on their creative sector , with the cultural centre of China , Russia , Portugal , France and Spain all increase their budget . this year , we cut the British Council budget by £ 12 million . the British Council may have to sell half of its art in order to pay back a £ 200 million debt from covid . surely it be an example of know the price of everything and the value of nothing if we can not reschedule that debt to enable the British Council to retain its valuable piece of art , 4 , 500 piece of which be under threat . the hon . Lady make a very good point . that do sound like a potentially devastating blow to our nation . Britain have gift the world the like of Charles Dickens ' s literature , the music of the Beatles and the good film of all time , " Paddington 2 " . by amend our education system , protect cultural spend locally , secure a fair deal with the EU and protect creative from exploitation by AI , we can properly support our creative industry and ensure we continue to make a similar contribution for many year to come . I be pleased to have the opportunity to speak in this important debate . I want to focus on three area : our potential in Norwich , education and support freelancer . the creative industry be something that I be passionate about . I grow up in Norfolk , and for much of my childhood my mother run the local art centre in King ' s Lynn . particularly in rural area , we sometimes forget the value of art and culture . as a councillor in Southwark , I hold the culture portfolio , and I see at first hand the many systemic challenge face our creative industry . I want to pause briefly on the rosy picture paint by the right hon . member for Daventry ( Stuart Andrew ) . as the hon . member for Cheltenham ( Max Wilkinson ) just allude to , local government face huge cut under the Conservative Government , and we see a reduction in council spending on art and culture . I think it be important to recognise the huge impact that austerity have have on our creative industry . I be sure the hon . Lady would also recognise that there will be site in her constituency and beyond that be save during the pandemic by the action of the then Government . some £ 1 . 57 billion in the culture recovery fund protect cultural venue up and down the country from what be potentially an existential crisis . I recognise that point , but as a culture portfolio holder I see that we increasingly have to bid for small pot of money , without overall systemic funding . we be able to keep all our library open , but many local authority be force to make difficult decision . I recognise that there be some decision during covid , but they be against a backdrop of long - term cut to our cultural sector which we also need to recognise . let I move on to some of the brilliant place I have in my constituency and in Norfolk . datum from the Creative Industries Policy and Evidence Centre show that cluster of creative business support positive economic , social and cultural change across the UK , not just in major city . my own city of Norwich have be identify as an emerge creative cluster . it be a world - class UNESCO city of literature , home to the National Centre for Writing and the wonderful creative writing course at the University of East Anglia , which count Ian McEwan , Rose Tremain and , more recently , Emma Healey , as graduate . Norwich be even the first city to adopt the Public Libraries 1850 Act . today , it be home to the wonderful Millennium library — it be also a library of sanctuary , which be very important at the moment — and the Sainsbury Centre for visual art . I particularly want to highlight the " pay what you can " model it have just introduce to ensure that culture be accessible to all . before Christmas , I see the world premiere of Carlos Acosta ' s " Nutcracker in Havana " in Norwich , which have now come to London . as well as invest in opportunity outside London , we can also learn a lot from what we see in those area . on skill , we have a great ecosystem in Norwich . we have : the University of East Anglia , which I mention ; the Norwich University of the Arts , support by the Arts and Humanities Research Council to invest in a new immersive screen facility in Mile Cross in my constituency , which will help to create good quality job for the future ; and City College Norwich , with cut - edge digital teaching facility . we be also home to many entrepreneur and start - up . I really welcome what the Minister say about ensure access to finance . I visit Akcela , a start - up incubator , which highlight that that be one of the big barrier to sme in our area . we have a huge amount of potential in Norwich , a lot of which be not know about . in my role as one of the Members of Parliament for that city , I want Norwich to be recognise for what it be : a centre of innovation and creativity , as well as a very historic and beautiful city to visit . we have a huge amount to be proud of , but we need joined - up action at all level to unlock it . as I have hear from many in the sector , we need stability and certainty , which I know the Government be determined to bring . I want to ask the Minister about a few specific area . I welcome the £ 40 million funding he reference for the Create Growth programme , the UK Games Fund and the UK Global Screen Fund . it would be good to understand how business in my area can benefit from that funding . the UK Research and Innovation ' s creative cluster programme , deliver via the Arts and Humanities Research Council , have be show to boost regional economic growth . Norwich have yet to benefit from creative cluster investment . will the Minister update we on that programme , so that more region can benefit ? we have touch on devolution , which be a big topic of conversation in Norfolk right now , as it be in many area across the country . I welcome the ambition to give local area more control over growth and skill , which be a big barrier in this area . can the Minister also assure I that the creative industry will play a key part in devolution and that for area such as Norfolk , where we do not yet have a devolution deal or a mayoral combine authority , we will not lose out on investment while that go through its journey ? I welcome the recently publish Norfolk growth strategy from our county council and the local business board , which lay out a pathway to how we can maximise the creative industry . let I turn now to education . we have see , and data show , that there have be a decline in people study creative subject at further education and high education level . we see the value of creative education talk down under the previous Government , even though we know it be important to invest in it as well as subject such as science . I hope the Government ' s curriculum review will restore creative education to the heart of our school and ensure that all pupil can benefit from study music , theatre , creative writing and more . if creative education be not central to the school curriculum , we know it become the domain of the wealthy and more privileged . we must open up opportunity to all child irrespective of their background or which school they go to . when I be a child , I be able — as I be sure many member be — to benefit from free music lesson . although the cello do not get much of an outing any more , I note the importance of music lesson in school . too often , music provision be not stable across the country and can be insufficient . will the Government commit to improve and expand music teaching in school , and ensure that the workforce be value and treat with respect ? I also want to make a point raise by one of my constituent regard the need for young people with special educational need and disability to get extra support , in particular the need for people with autism to get into art and the broad creative sector . finally , a note on freelancer . as I mention , I be the cabinet member for culture as we come out of the pandemic . I hear from many freelancer about the very difficult impact the covid pandemic have on they , and a feeling that too often , and not just in that period , their voice be not hear in the sector . freelancer comprise a large proportion — about 28 % — of the creative sector workforce . Freelancing come with many benefit such as flexibility , but many risk too , such as low pay and a lack of entitlement to a range of workplace right . I hope the Minister , in his closing remark , will update we on support for freelancer , include any conversation with the Department for Business and Trade pertain to the Employment Rights Bill . there be many area that could be discuss in this debate and I have touch on a few of they . we have discuss AI at length , but my constituent have also raise with I the importance of get the balance right in that area . overall , it be clear that the Government recognise the benefit of the creative sector and will invest in they . I think the Minister will be invite to every single place in the country , but I hope he might come to the east of England to see how much there be to offer . I look forward to work with he and his team to maximise that benefit . I be delighted to have the opportunity to talk about our world - lead creative industry . I listen very carefully to everything the Minister say , and there be a lot of it . I love his undoubted passion for these sector , and I love the understanding he have for they and the really strong rhetoric he put into his support for they . I just hope and pray that it be contagious , and that he have the energy to ensure that it deliver a real , meaningful and robust commitment from the government that turn into action on behalf of these sector . there be so much we can be proud of . in the past couple of week we have see Oscar nomination for Felicity Jones , Cynthia Erivo , Ralph Fiennes and everyone ' s favourite , " Wallace and Gromit " . I be sure the Minister be not impervious to the brat summer that we all go through last year , reflect in Charli XCX ' s five Brit award nomination . this year , we will have the inaugural South by Southwest London event and the World Design Congress , which will be take place here for the first time in more than 50 year . our creative industry be remarkable and they have an immense soft power value . I welcome the Department for Culture , Media and Sport and the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office work together to increase the UK ' s influence abroad . as ever , the Culture , Media and Sport Committee be a trailblazer , work with the Foreign Affairs Committee and the International Development Committee last year to look at the BBC World Service and its future . minister can expect to see the result very soon . the launch of the Soft Power Council , as a collaboration between DCMS and the fcdo , have be welcome by the creative industry . I say welcome , but I should say tentatively welcome . alongside warm word , the sector also need to see the Government walk the walk if they be really to harness the global super power of our creative industry , whether by cut red tape , establish bilateral cultural agreement that enable our creative to tour the world , or look at how we pitch government intervention to ensure the world continue to invest here . with that in mind , I be concerned that the breadth of the creative industry be under - represent on the council . fashion , design , video game and , apart from music , most of the perform art be miss , despite their immense popularity and international influence . I wonder whether the Minister could look at that . it might be easy to answer that immediately . I have be very keen to try to make the council a bit small , but it will have lot of separate work group that will include all the creative industry the hon . Lady talk about . in the end it be about deliverable — it be not just about have another talk shop — and that be what I be very keen to deliver . we may be here for a long time if the Minister answer every question that I be go to ask over the next few minute , but let we have a go . we in the Select Committee be very excited , because tomorrow the Minister will be appear before we for the final episode of a very long - run inquiry into film and high - end television . I do not want to give away too much — no spoiler , Madam Deputy Speaker — but I would like to share with the House evidence that we receive recently . everyone will have have a different tv highlight over Christmas , but two massive hit be undoubtedly " the Mirror and the Light " on the BBC and " Black Doves " on Netflix . Peter Kosminsky , the director of " the Mirror and the Light " , tell we that every streamer turn down the option to take up the show , despite the award , the critical success and the acclaim for that first series of " Wolf Hall " . in fact , the only possible way to make it be for the producer , the writer , the director and the lead star to give up a significant proportion of their fee . it be unimaginable — be it not ? — but it be not unique . the Producers Alliance for Cinema and Television , charmingly know as PACT , have warn that 15 green - light drama be stick unmade because the financial contribution that a public service broadcaster can offer , together with sale advance and UK tax break , simply be not enough to compete with the current inflate cost environment . Jane Featherstone , the producer of " Black Doves " and other massive hit such as " Broadchurch " and " Chernobyl " , tell our Committee that the psb be be " price out " of make high - end drama , which mean that british story for british audience be at risk , as be the training ground for the next generation of talent . we talk so much about the importance of creative education , but if we do not have the job for those young people to come into when they leave school , we be sell the next generation a dream . I know that the Minister and the Secretary of State value the telling of british story , so the Minister can expect we to press he on that tomorrow . when it come to british story from across our isle , we can not overlook the value of our psb and the challenge that they face owe to competition from international streamer and change audience behaviour . the uniquely british flavour of PSB production such as " Fleabag " , " Derry Girls " and " Peaky Blinders " make they some of our most popular and enduring export , but it be no exaggeration to say that they be face an existential challenge . over the come month we will hear from the leadership of the BBC , Channel 4 and Ofcom about the BBC charter review , the implementation of the Media Act 2024 , and the wide challenge that they face . we will also want to discuss advertising with they and with other broadcaster . the shift from broadcast to online advertising be not new , but we must ensure that broadcaster be not leave disadvantage by outdated competition rule . I want to make sure that the creative industry be deliver for their employer and contractor . CIISA , the Creative Industries Independent Standards Authority , under the brilliant stewardship of Jen Smith and Baroness Kennedy , be at a critical point as it conclude its consultation on standard today . it concern I that while some part of the creative industry make positive noise about CIISA , in reality they do not lean in , and other organisation — especially those with headquarters abroad — be reluctant to engage at all . I know that the Minister care about this , but if we be to recruit and , critically , retain talented people , there must be no hiding place for bad behaviour . I be delighted by the Minister ' s commitment to our grassroots music venue levy , and for the signal that he will be willing to act if a voluntary solution be not work out . the establishment of the LIVE Trust be a step in the right direction , and I hope that more will be do to include artist and independent promoter in the conversation about where the money will go and how it be distribute . may I ask the Minister to give we an update in his closing speech ? let I continue my whistlestop tour of the creative industry and the perform art . last week , the National Theatre launch its " Scene Change " report , which highlight the willingness of the perform art to innovate in their business model . I be sure that the Minister will look carefully at its recommendation , but I want to pull out two key point . first , as he say , our creative industry generate more for our economy than aerospace , oil and gas and renewable combine , and they need a robust industrial strategy to match their firepower . without investment , there be no innovation . the National Theatre , for example , be as much a totemic british export as BAE or Rolls - Royce . " National Theatre at Home " have bring production to new audience across the United Kingdom and , indeed , the world . however , few in the sector have the fund for such project , and I hope that the Minister will consider the report ' s recommendation of an innovation fund , which could drive growth . secondly , UK Research and Innovation , which the Minister also mention , exist to foster research and innovation , yet the creative art be wildly under - represent , give their gross value add . I know that the Minister enjoy a bit of theatric , so while I be at the National Theatre , I wonder which of its production reflect he well . there be " the Importance of be Earnest " ; one review of the current production note " just the right amount of delightful mischief . " there be " Nye " , the story of a hugely influential Welsh politician take policy through against enormous opposition . but then I realise that we need to go back a bit far , to the smash hit " one Man , two Guvnors " , because the Minister find himself work for both the Science Secretary and the Culture Secretary . our story begin as he try to justify the Government ' s proposal on artificial intelligence and copyright . the Secretary of State for Science , Innovation and Technology have claim that I do not understand the idea of consultation , and the Minister have claim that I do not understand the detail of this consultation . I be begin to feel a bit gaslit by it all , but I know that the Science Secretary be not say the same thing to the creative industry , because I be tell that he be refuse to meet they at all . I wonder whether the Minister be tell the creative industry that they do not understand the detail — because everyone I have speak to in the sector seem to understand the detail perfectly , and they do not like it . this be not about pit the creative industry against Al . this be not a luddite sector ; the creative industry use Al to great effect , and be always at the forefront of embrace innovation . the Minister say so himself : he say that they never abide by the straitjacket of conformity . the aim be a system that be transparent , as he say , but with licensing arrangement that protect intellectual property . the Government ' s consultation paper say there be a " lack of clarity " in the regime , but the people I speak to tell I that the situation be perfectly clear , and that the large Al developer can not legally use it to their advantage . instead , the Government ' s proposal move the onus on to creator to protect their work , rather than Al developer have to seek permission to use it . this be know as the opt - out . we have the opt - in , the opt - out , the opt - in , the opt - out — it be the legislative equivalent of the hokey - cokey . the fact that unscrupulous developer be not seek permission from right holder do not mean that we should bend the system in their favour . our world - lead creative industry have make it clear that the European Union ' s opt - out model , which the Government ' s consultation favour , do not work . they say that there be no exist technical protection measure that allow right holder to easily protect their content from scrape , and web bot take advantage of that unworkable system to copy protect work , bypass inadequate technology and the unclear copyright exception . put simply , the EU opt - out system create an even greyer area . I know the Minister do not agree with I on that , but may I ask he to agree with I on just two point ? first , if the Government be determined to go down the opt - out route , any opt - out must be tightly define and enforce , so that developer can not wilfully disapply it or plead ignorance . secondly , any technical solution that protect right must be adequately future - proof , so that creator and developer do not simply end up in an arm race to find new way to stop those who be hoover up copyright work . may I also ask the Minister to address two question ? I have always say that AI should provide the solution to AI , and that be what we all hope will happen , but what if a suitable technical solution that protect right be not find ? do we stick to the status quo , and keep the onus on AI developer to follow the law ? it be notable that the creative industry be not represent on the Science and Technology Cabinet Committee . can the Minister confirm that they will have a voice when the final decision be make ? if they be not , as he say , to be the cherry on the cake , they will need that seat at the table . I do not want to end my speech on a pessimistic note . there be much to be optimistic about for our creative industry ; they be the envy of the world on virtually every front . the Minister love a song quotation , and it be almost as if the top three song of all time , accord to Rolling Stone magazine , could provide the backdrop for he and his role right now . do you know what they be , Madam Deputy Speaker ? " a Change be go to come " , but the Minister need to " fight the power " and give our creative industry what they deserve : " respect " . follow that , Jo Platt ! thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be an honour to follow the hon . member for Gosport ( Dame Caroline Dinenage ) , who be an excellent chair of the Culture , Media and Sport Committee , even when she be tell I off for go over my allotted time . grow up in Manchester in the ' 90 , I see at first hand how culture can breathe new life into a city struggle with the aftermath of deindustrialisation . in the face of economic decline , it be community cinema , street art and independent venue that become the beat heart of Manchester city centre . space like Canal Street flourish , not just as a hub for Manchester ' s LGBT community , but as part of a vibrant city centre that reflect the city ' s cultural and inclusive spirit — all power by the music , creativity and diversity that define our nightlife scene . I be give away my age . that scene be accessible to I , as I grow up in Salford , right in the area that MediaCity now call home . the BBC ' s move mark the large relocation of any public sector organisation outside London this century . since then , Salford have see a remarkable 142 % growth in employment in the creative and digital sector , along with a 70 % increase in the number of digital and creative business . MediaCity stand as a powerful example of how the creative industry can deliver both economic and social benefit to local community . that experience shape my belief in the transformative power of culture to regenerate community and drive economic revival . culture turn the tide for Manchester , and I believe that today ' s generation deserve that same opportunity . south side Studios in Leighton Buzzard repurpose vacant space on the high street , which bring people to the high street . we also have the Peppercorn team , who want a cultural and heritage centre , which would bring people into the town centre . do my hon . friend agree that cultural industry can bring growth to not just city , but our market town as well ? my hon . friend make an excellent point on an issue that I will come to . I think the Government will be focus on that change . for the Labour Government , this be a pivotal moment — a chance to make culture truly accessible for all , and to ensure that community like mine in Leigh and Atherton experience culture as a drive force for positive change . I have speak many time in the Chamber about my previous role at Leigh Spinners Mill — I be sick of send it copy of Hansard , as it cost I a fortune in postage — but by revitalise a once dormant 100 - year - old cotton mill , we create a thriving creative hub where artist , musician and creative business could set themselves up . it prove that town like mine be full of rich , creative talent . that effort mirror the important work do by the Music Venue Trust , which be dedicate to create space where grassroot music can flourish . one such example be the Snug in Atherton , which have become a cornerstone of the town ' s nightlife , play a crucial role in revitalise the town centre over the year . we see there a model of local ownership and community - drive success , which align perfectly with Labour ' s vision and the value of co - operative . it foster local empowerment and ensure that community can take ownership of their space and their future . however , as much as we celebrate these success , we must acknowledge the challenge face the creative industry . grassroots creative artist — particularly in town like Leigh — have often feel left behind , and too many talented individual feel overlook by the large cultural institution , and exclude from the opportunity that they deserve . I welcome the Minister ' s comment , and his focus on the creative industry . he be put they at the heart of the forthcoming industrial strategy , which will play a key role in the Government ' s plan for change . I be not under the illusion that we will get some huge financial institution invest in Leigh , create thousand of job — that be not go to happen . what we need be growth in our exist industry , and the many creative industry that keep our small town work . we need to reassess funding model , rethink policy framework and build strong educational pipeline to ensure that everyone , regardless of background or postcode , can access career in culture , medium and sport . I would like to ask the Minister about the introduction of a well - publicise proposal that could be a game changer for visual artist : the smart fund . that initiative , back by creative industry organisation , could unlock the economic potential of the sector by create new support mechanism for freelance artist and the wide visual art sector . that would be a vital step towards bring the UK into line with other country , and ensure that creator from all background have the support that they need to thrive . it be essential that any funding reach grassroots artist and organisation — those work in town centre and local community . I be passionate about create the physical and financial space for the creative industry to flourish , not just in city , but in small town like Leigh and Atherton . the impact of nurture local talent can not be overstate . it bring people together , create job and build strong community . I be sure that the Government be work hard to address the challenge face the creative industry , include funding issue , the threat of AI and skill shortage . this be about more than just job or culture ; it be about build strong , more connected and more vibrant community across our country . we have hear from many hon . member about the power of art and the impact that culture can have on life . from Shakespeare to the Smiths and from Hockney to Hitchcock , the UK have a proud cultural heritage that have touch all corner of the globe and continue to inspire million . I be proud that my constituency of Wimbledon have play its part , host everything from the filming of the first " carry on " film at Merton Park studio to the world premiere of Lionel Bart ' s " Oliver ! " . the University of the Arts London and countless creative business , not to mention three theatre and two cinema , call Wimbledon home . however , it be clear that many challenge face the industry . the growth in generative AI and streaming platform be change and threaten many . meanwhile , the pandemic and the cost of living crisis have leave many creative business face huge financial pressure . the debate be therefore welcome and could not come at a more important time . before I proceed far , I must declare my interest in the industry : I be the owner of a small cabaret bar in Covent Garden and chair of the all - party parliamentary group for the night time economy , and as such I be greatly concerned about what be happen at the grassroot . somewhat more embarrassingly , I must confess that I be a fail creative . in my youth , I be the lead singer of an obscure new wave outfit , the Gotham City Swing Band . although my motley crew and I make little impression on the music scene , we still have a small place in history : we be the final band to play the Roxy — the infamous birthplace of british punk — before it close its door for the final time that night . be that because of you ? the Minister have anticipate my joke . I will leave Madam Deputy Speaker to decide whether it be my performance that end it all . that bring I to the first issue that I would like to highlight : the crisis face grassroots music venue . the Roxy play a crucial role in shape british musical history ; it provide a share space for creative , lead to the formation of band and genre that be still love today . the Roxy be critical to the development of punk and so much that follow in its wake . grassroots music venue fulfil that purpose , and help keep Britain at the forefront of music . furthermore , in the age of streaming , when artist struggle to make a living from recording , live performance be more crucial than ever in provide the essential income that fledgling musician need . grassroots venue be the backbone of the industry and provide million of people with access to affordable live music . without they act as a pipeline for the music industry , there be no industry . however , they be disappear at an alarming rate . the Music Venue Trust estimate that over a third of grassroots venue have close over the past 20 year , and soar rent , rise utility bill and the cost of living crisis be put the remain one at risk . in 2023 alone , 125 of they — one in six — close or stop host live music . club music venue be also at risk . Britain ' s lead role in electronic and dance music be well document , and nightclub such as Fabric and Ministry of Sound be more than just place to dance ; they be cultural institution . however , due to increase economic pressure , 10 club close every month . that be clearly not sustainable . how can we expect to produce the next generation ' s David Bowie , Norman Cook or Amy Winehouse if we have nowhere for they to play ? if Britain want to retain its position in the vanguard of popular culture , the closure must end . it be disappointing , therefore , that the Government ' s recent decision have only make the situation bad . their first Budget bring the industry even close to the brink . the Chancellor ' s decision in October to reduce business rate relief from 75 % to 40 % will put 350 grassroots music venue at immediate risk , with the potential loss of 12 , 000 job , as it will mean a more than double of their business rate . the Government must urgently rethink that measure . if they be serious about support our music industry , they must quickly take step to ensure that venue can survive , include by recognise they as cultural , heritage and community asset in the same way that other cultural space , such as theatre and gallery , be protect . it be not just music venue feel the pinch . local museum and gallery provide million of people with access to inspiration and history on their doorstep , and a sense of place and community in an age of increase division and isolation . we be lucky in Wimbledon . Merton Arts Space , base in Wimbledon library , provide a vital venue for exhibition and community performance , while the Wimbledon museum and Wimbledon windmill provide resident and visitor alike with an important perspective on the past . the Polka theatre ' s award - win production inspire and entertain child from across south London and beyond , while the New Wimbledon theatre be the sixth large in London and home to the wonderful Studio theatre . however , in many place , such venue have long go or be at risk . the Museums Association say that the civic museum sector face an existential crisis , as local authority budget be under increase pressure and , with the cost of living crisis , many venue can not rely on community donation to keep they go . the Government must take step to provide local authority with the funding they need to help keep these institution go . without they , our community will suffer . it be not just the decline of venue that be deny people access to the art . over the past decade , the Conservatives cut access to the art in school , with consistent deprioritisation of creative art in the curriculum , and budget cut . access to art education be not a luxury ; it should be view as a right . every child , regardless of background , deserve the chance to explore their creative potential . currently , however , that be simply not the case . there be few specialist teacher than ever before — since 2010 , the number of creative art teacher in the UK have fall by 14 % — and few and few student be study the expressive art to later stage of their education . in 2010 , 40 % of all GCSE entry be in such subject ; by 2023 , that figure have halve . that be not due to a lack of demand — one just have to be around child and young people to see that they crave creativity — but due to the previous Government , for year , not take seriously the task of create the next generation of creative . the loss of teacher and decline in student not only deprive individual of enrich experience , but deplete the talent pipeline . study have repeatedly prove the positive impact that art education can have on young people by boost mental health , enhance memory and increase cultural awareness . art education be an investment worth make . the lack of provision in school be make creative education and therefore many career in the art increasingly the preserve of the wealthy , deprive our culture of different view , voice and perspective . although I appreciate that the Government have pledge to include art and creative subject provision in the curriculum review , they must take further step . school ' budget be tight than ever , and extra funding must be provide to ensure that they can provide a full , well - round educational offering . we can not afford to view the creative art as a luxury . they be central to our economy , history and cultural identity . creative industry contribute £ 125 billion to the UK economy and entertain , engage and employ million of people across the country and the world . it be clear that if we want to maintain our place as a global cultural leader , we must invest in the future . the Government must act to support our musician , artist and actor of the future . without intervention , what be once a source of immense national pride will be just another footnote in an avoidable tale of national decline . it have be hearten to hear colleague underscore the significance of the creative industry . the Chancellor of the Exchequer identify they as one of the eight driver of economic growth , and the Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport and the Minister here today have speak passionately about their be our cultural and economic superpower . as representative of the immense talent in Greater Manchester , the Secretary of State and I know well the enormous value bring by film , tv , gaming , publishing and , of course , music — a sector particularly close to my heart as a former musician , and singer of the only Manchester band nobody have hear of . across the UK , our creative industry be an ecosystem . mutually supportive and interdependent , they be among the fast - grow industry and have extraordinary potential to drive our nation ' s no . 1 mission : economic growth . but the ecosystem be fragile and need to be nurture and support in order to flourish , so we must take seriously , and respond to , the creative sector ' s reaction to the Government ' s consultation on AI in the sector . those in the sector be confused , alarmed and deeply concerned . central to their fear be the framing of " right reservation " — an opt - out system that threaten to rip the rug from under our prized sector , with sweeping change propose to copyright law . what be " right reservation " ? that which we call an opt - out system by any other name will still sound the alarm . creator see it for what it be : an upheaval of the copyright protection they depend on , which threaten to do last damage to the sector . copyright do not inspire hit song , smash - hit movie or classical text , but it be the lifeblood of our creative industry . it be what feed investment , enable musician , writer , actor , designer , and business large and small , to earn a living from their work . copyright be the foundation of what make our creative industry what they be and could become . creativity be not an easy , anodyne process , and we should not outsource it to a method that reduce it to such . it take blood , sweat , tear and countless hour . it do not just carry the creator ' s joy or perception , their struggle or vulnerability , but often speak to our own . what connect we to our creative industry be the human emotion they embody . yes , AI can , will and already do assist creator . musician and artist have embrace technological innovation throughout history , and AI hold exciting potential to help consumer discover and engage with creative work . but to forfeit the humanity it take to create , and suggest that AI can replace it , insult and will ultimately cost those who pour their life into their craft , as well as those of we who love to soak it all up . proposal for new , broad exception to copyright , and the burden of opt out of have one ' s life ' s work take without permission , undermine the very principle of copyright and , frankly , of trade and commerce . the proposal be a threat to the livelihood of creator , especially small right holder who lack the resource to navigate complex system or enforce protection against unauthorised AI use . those small , independent creator form the bedrock of our creative ecosystem . without they , the intricate web that sustain the sector will unravel . the richness of our cultural landscape depend not only on headline act , but on the countless independent creator who bring diversity and depth to this sharing industry . proponent of unfettered AI access to copyright work , who say that deny it will stifle progress , leave we behind other territory , describe a false choice and present a regressive argument that suggest we should sacrifice creator ' right for tech advance . what advance be we willing on , if it undermine the position of strength we start from ? we already have divergence between territory on copyright , and the UK lead with strength here . innovation should uplift we , not exploit . we do not need to weaken our cultural integrity and creative capital for a technological right of way . all of we can find a space to love produce by our creative industry . in affirm this view , I wish also to distinguish between consumer and creator . consumer engage with creation at the finish line ; they need not understand the hour of labour behind their creation or the security on which they be create . that be absolutely fine , but legislator , policymaker and industry leader must heed the creator ' s voice and recognise the existential threat that AI pose to their livelihood if we forfeit copyright as we know it . we must protect , cherish and celebrate the human spirit behind every brushstroke , investigation , edition , publication , note , verse and chorus , for they carry the joy , the struggle , the love and the loss , the hit and the miss . they express and emote . they relate and reflect to we our human condition : this human creativity — authentic , irreplaceable , deeply connected , often nebulous — defy the precise definition of AI . Artificial can not replace authentic . learn behaviour can not replicate the human condition . I hope this debate will amplify the voice of AI leader who be advocate for the transparency and copyright framework that favour creator . the Government ' s consultation be absolutely right to highlight the need for transparency . AI firm should have to disclose what they be use in their training dataset . this will enable fair licensing arrangement , with the burden on the purchaser of creativity and not on the producer of it . this be a pivotal moment for our creative sector . it come down to this : will we protect copyright and creator ’ right , or will we defer entirely to AI ? we must not let proposal such as opt - out system dismantle the protection that allow creativity to flourish . let AI revolutionise our public service , productivity , precision and efficiency , but let the creative sector remain the authentic space that we all enjoy , as one of human expression . creativity be not just a process ; it profoundly connect we to one another and provide we with a shared humanity — not of just moment and movement but of memory that we live with forever . it fall to we to protect the muse , the struggle and the joy that define these marvellous creative industry . let we ensure that creator , not algorithm , remain the first and last word in determine our cultural , economic and human advance . it be a pleasure to take part in this debate and indeed to echo what have be say by many member on both side of the House . I think this debate will produce pretty much unanimity on the importance of our creative industry . it be a particular pleasure to follow my hon . friend the Member for Gosport ( Dame Caroline Dinenage ) — my successor but three , I believe , as Chairman of the Select Committee — and I be go to concentrate on one or two of the thing she say . it be happily now recognise how important the creative industry be to the UK ' s economy . there have be a grow awareness of this over a long period , ever since a separate Department be found in the form of the Department of National Heritage , which become the Department for Culture , Media and Sport . the creative industry be something that the UK be extraordinarily good at . it be still the case that the well - sell music artist of all time , the Beatles , be british , as be the well - sell author of all time , Agatha Christie . and now , today , when we go to a Hollywood movie , the chance be that it will have be make in Pinewood , even though that be not immediately obvious from what we see on the screen . advertisement also originate in this country , as do publish , as the Minister and many other member have highlight . as the Minister say , there be an ecosystem whereby our most successful commercial creative enterprise rely on the subsidised sector , and vice versa . let we take David Tennant as an example . he start life in " Hamlet " with the Royal Shakespeare Company , go on to " Doctor who " and end up in " Rivals " . I have see all three , and they be all highly enjoyable . the subsidised sector have also benefit over the year from a conservative invention , the national lottery . it have produce an enormous amount of money , which the taxpayer probably could not have afford to invest , and many enterprise have benefit from that . I echo what have be say about the importance of education and the need to ensure that art be at the core of our curriculum , and also about the importance of grassroots music venue . I go to a Music Venue Trust reception last week , as a number of Members do . I be really interested to hear the remark of the hon . member for Wimbledon ( Mr Kohler ) . I do not quite get to the Roxy , but I do go regularly to the Marquee club in Wardour Street , with its sweaty atmosphere , where I hear people such as Buzzcocks and the Clash , and great band such as Iron Maiden , who start off life in those small venue . it be a shame that the Marquee club be no long with we and that so many venue still struggle , but I must say that have it not be for the culture recovery fund , which my hon . friend the Member for Gosport oversaw as Minister in the Department during the covid pandemic , there would be virtually no small venue , or indeed large venue , leave in this country . the culture recovery fund keep venue from the Hot Box in Chelmsford all the way up to the Royal Albert Hall go . they be look over the precipice until the Government step in . the creative industry also bring enormous benefit to this country internationally . I , too , welcome the Government ' s creation of the Soft Power Council . have serve as Chairman of the Culture , Media and Sport Committee , I now sit on the Foreign Affairs Committee , and we continue to collaborate between Committees in look at the importance of soft power . about two week ago , we hear from the British Council , which be mention early in the debate . the British Council do an extremely important job , and it be ridiculous that it have to go to the Government every year and ask to have the loan roll over , and that it be stare at insolvency until an agreement be reach . I hope that be something that the Government will now address . the British Council do many worthy thing , but I have a soft spot for one thing in particular that it administer — I hope that both Ministers on the Front Bench share this — and that be the cultural protection fund . that be another initiative from this country in which we use our world - beat expertise from place such as the British Museum to help to ensure that some of the world ' s great heritage be preserve , particularly when it be at risk from conflict . we need to recognise that there be an increasingly competitive environment across the creative industry . british music be still extraordinarily successful , but 2023 be the first year when there be no british artist among the top 10 well - sell artist across the world . four of the well - sell artist in the world in 2023 be korean . that show where the market be develop . they be develop in south America , too . it be important that we continue to support creative industry such as the music industry through , for instance , the music export growth scheme , which be set up by the last government and which I know this Government be continue . I welcome that and hope that it will be maintain . I also want to say a word about copyright , as almost every other speaker in this debate have do . I chair the all - party parliamentary group on intellectual property , and we recently have a meeting with the chair of all the APPGs represent music , publishing , the visual art and the medium , who come together to listen to representative of those creative industry express their deep concern about the Government ' s suggestion that they might introduce an exception to the copyright protection , which would benefit AI . there be good thing about AI . it be not a threat to be beat off ; it can be of real value to the creative industry . company such as Universal Music be use AI , and it be a new technology that consumer and those industry will benefit from . at the same time , protection be need to ensure that intellectual property right be not abuse . the Minister say that there be legal uncertainty , but the fact that intellectual property right owner be defend their right by go to court do not mean that the law be wrong . they be use the law , but that do not necessarily mean that the law be not perfectly clear . we welcome element of the Government ' s proposal , and transparency be vital . if right owner be to be able to protect their property , they first need to know where their property be be use . transparency be the first essential requirement for that to happen , so I very much welcome the Government ' s proposal to ensure transparency where AI large language model use content from across the internet to generate their own content . the consultation highlight the alarm about a text and data mining exception . on one hand , the Government say they be consult on that , but on the other hand , when the Secretary of State make his statement in the House just a couple of week ago , he say that the Government be accept all of Matt Clifford ' s recommendation . one of those recommendation be to introduce a text and datum mining exception , so I hope the Minister can say something about that . Matt Clifford make that recommendation — recommendation 24 — and , in response , we have say that we be consult . we have not decide ; we be consult . it be a consultation , not the Second reading of a Bill . I be extremely grateful to the Minister , and it be of some reassurance that the Government ' s mind be still open . I hope they will listen to the voice across the Chamber express concern . there be an objection in principle to option 3 , which be the idea that right holder have to opt out . it reverse what have long be the case — that people can rely on the protection of their right unless they choose to give they up . they should not have to ask for their right to be protect , and that be what an opt - out system entail . there would no long be automatic protection under an opt - out system , and it would put a huge burden on many small right holder . there be a suggestion that photographer might have to seek an opt - out for every picture they have ever take . now , I hope that be not the case , but a lot of uncertainty have be create . each creative industry be different . as the Authors ' Licensing and Collecting Society tell we last week , writer may want their work to be use for some purpose but not for other , but it appear that this will be a binary system in which they either opt in or opt out . this be also incredibly difficult to enforce . if somebody take a picture of a painting on their phone and put it on social medium , how can the right owner prevent it from be use by a large language model that go out and absorb all this content ? as have already be say , there be no workable system in existence that allow for opt out . the EU have try to introduce one and , as I be sure the Minister be fully aware , the robot . txt standard be suppose to identify — it ' s useless . the Minister be entirely right — it be useless . the problem , therefore , be that there be no workable solution at the moment . the Minister and the Government have say that they will not introduce this option until there be a workable system in existence . that be reassure , but how will the Minister decide whether a propose system be indeed workable ? if it be workable , how will it be enforce ? will individual right holder have to go to court if they believe they have opt out but find that their work be still be use ? there be a whole host of question . I recognise the Minister ' s commitment and wish to find a way to protect right , but there be an awful lot of question at the moment , and there do not appear to be any answer . I hope he can address some of those question . I rise not just as a member of the Science , Innovation and Technology Committee or as co - chair of the APPG on artificial intelligence , but as an academic with first - hand experience of build AI model . I will try to make a case — go with I on this one — that protect our creative industry and the high - quality output it produce be vital not just to our vibrant creative sector , but to our rapidly evolve AI sector . back in the mist of time , when I be build a model for my phd , I resist the temptation to build a large dataset from any relevant datum I could find . instead , I choose to produce a small , high - quality dataset , which be risky , as it might not have be enough to create a reliable model and I might not have pass my phd . my risk pay off . my model work well than expect and , ever since , I have adhere to the principle that it be the quality of our datum , not its quantity , that matter . to mangle a metaphor , some say that datum be the new oil or gold . take that metaphor forward , let we do a thought experiment . let we say that the UK discover vast reserve of gold , make we the second big provider globally . what should we do ? would we look at gold - hungry organisation and give they the gold for free , in the hope that they will invest in the UK ? I should hope not . by some estimate , the UK creative industry be the second large globally . it be our gold . should we give away this valuable asset for free ? I hope not , for the sake of our creative , but also for our new AI industry , in which this government be rightly invest . the unlicensed and illegal use of copyright content for generative AI development have be equate by some with a form of theft . not only be it unfair to make such acquisition legal via an opt - out system , but it risk create a future of fool ' s gold datum as our creative industry lose control of its work and move elsewhere , or simply give up . high - quality datum be essential for the success of generative AI , but , as with gold — to overkill the metaphor — its reserve may be finite . researcher predict that at the current rate , generative AI developer will have use all the publicly available stock of human - create text datum between 2026 and 2032 . in other word , we could run out next year . this mean that , with limited new high - quality datum , innovation and AI growth will be hinder , invite model collapse . Model collapse happen when generative AI model start train on their own low - quality datum . this be the fool ' s gold of AI . if we wish to be competitive , both in the creative and AI industry , we as a country need to set ourselves above our competitor , not below they . we do this not by give away our most valuable asset for free , but by protect they so that we can keep generate more and more new high - quality datum . generative AI developer , like all AI developer , be extremely data - hungry and keen to mine , mine , mine . if all we have leave to offer they be fool ' s gold — if our world - class british artist have to look elsewhere to make a living — the AI developer will likewise look elsewhere . protect our creative industry by not allow the free use of datum for model training purpose be therefore the right thing to do not only for our creative industry , but for our AI industry . I therefore ask the Government to consider a long - term view and retain the UK ' s current copyright framework , to place the onus on generative AI developer to seek a licence for our creative ’ datum — with a possible caveat for academic research — and to expand it to cover all generative AI model market in the UK . in conjunction , we must require meaningful transparency on datum usage in a form that be accessible to artist and regulator . that would allow for enforceable regulation and enable the actual data creator , our creative , to seek redress . I resist , as I always do , claim that that would inhibit innovation and growth . base on my experience as a researcher and AI ethicist , I reject the notion that regulation inhibit innovation . it simply do not . transparency of model development and datum source plus enforceable regulation be vital to encourage high standard and good quality AI . by retain our copyright framework and pioneer a licensing approach , we would guarantee that right holder have control over their own creative output . such an approach would give confidence to our creative , allow they to pursue sustainable , well - pay and productive career , and provide enjoyment to we all , income and growth for the country and the high - quality output that be so valuable to generative AI developer . by take that approach , we will remain what we be today — the gold standard of the creative industry — and that will enable we to rise up as the gold standard for AI development . in Wales , we have have an incredibly rich creative inheritance , and we still have that today . even our rouse national anthem honour the Welsh poet and singer who come before we . one example of that be the Urdd Eisteddfod , where around 15 , 000 young people compete in creative competition , span from singe to poetry to dance , and anything in between . young people in Wales have the ability to participate creatively in our society , but their talent be often extract from our local community . Professor Michael Woods from Aberystwyth University highlight that the creative industry could be an antidote to outward migration from Wales . he suggest that creative hub in rural area could retain young people in Wales , especially as his research show that the creative art be the main reason most would stay in my constituency of Caerfyrddin . a fabulous example of one of those creative hub be Yr Egin in Carmarthen . it house the S4C headquarters , provide employment and boost the local economy . recent research show it contribute £ 7 . 6 million to Carmarthenshire ' s economy alone between 2022 and 2023 . Yr Egin play a vital role in promote our language and culture in Wales . it be not alone in that . other creative organisation across Wales , include Cwmni Da , Fran Wen , and Aria Studios in Llangefni , also amplify the voice of our land and culture on both local and international stage . individual need access to opportunity and upskille to participate in the creative industry . Teledwyr Annibynnol Cymru do great work in provide essential training for tv , film , radio and new medium . some 1 , 800 people have be train over the past few year at over 125 different course . the course be Welsh medium or bilingual , thus provide specialist staff for the industry . I be really disappointed to hear about cut at two prominent Welsh institution : the Royal Welsh College of Music and Drama have cut its junior department and National Theatre Wales be close due to financial constraint . despite ongoing training effort , those cut , as well as other elsewhere in the sector , leave Welsh creative at a disadvantage compare with other across the UK . we be very fortunate and appreciate that the wonderful Mr Michael Sheen be establish a Welsh National Theatre , but the future of our creative industry should not lie solely on the shoulder of one individual . we have a collective responsibility to protect those industry . creative industry in Wales generate a £ 3 . 8 billion turnover across 2022 and 2023 , which account for 5 . 3 % of the total Welsh GDP . a cornerstone of that success be S4C , which directly employ 1 , 900 people and generate £ 136 million for the Welsh economy . it be crucial that S4C be give equal standing with other british broadcaster during the royal charter review , ensure that the voice of people across Wales be hear , our culture be represent and Wales do not miss out on financial opportunity . the current tax relief system disadvantage S4C , because accord to current rule , only tv project with production cost of at least £ 1 million per broadcast hour be eligible for a tax rebate of up to 25 % . as S4C be very efficient , it spend less than £ 250 , 000 per broadcast hour so it do not meet the threshold to qualify for the support . I call on the Government to reconsider that to ensure our creative industry continue to thrive . our Government must lead on protect our creative industry , from local to global , because they drive the economy , employ million of people and contribute in Wales to our culture , Welsh language and overall wellbeing . the creative art be Wales . as a former peripatetic music teacher and as a singer — not in any big band , as some hon . member have be — I would like to read the first verse of " in Passing " by Brian Harris . " to be bear in Wales , not with a silver spoon in your mouth , but , with music in your blood and with poetry in your soul , be a privilege indeed . " indeed it be a privilege . rise — Order . I do not intend to put a formal time limit on speech yet , but there be lot of member stand , so it would be helpful if member could restrict themselves to between six and seven minute . Madam Deputy Speaker , if I be to ask you to name a city in the UK that be a hotbed of creativity — stoke - on - trent ? [ laughter . ] the Minister have steal my thunder ! as always , he have pre - empte what I be go to say . I be go to say that Stoke - on - Trent be a city that be steep in history , but fizz for the future of creativity . we be home to nine Arts Council England national portfolio organisation ; we have a burgeon CreaTech cluster in the Spode building ; and we have some of the good performance of theatre - in - the - round at the New Vic theatre , which although not in Stoke - on - Trent be so close to the border it might as well be . I highlight these point not for the flippant response I should have pre - empte from the Minister , but because all too often when we think about place where creativity happen and where art and culture thrive , we do not think about place such as Stoke - on - Trent or other historical industrial city . all too often , those place be write up as wasteland , with derelict building show in article in the Guardian , rather than the focus be on the thing that make they special and strong : our heritage and our future . stoke - on - Trent be the only city in the UK that have world craft city status for our industrial history in the pottery . some of the great creative of our past be intrinsically link to Stoke - on - trent : Wedgwood , Spode , William Moorcroft , Clarice Cliff and Susie Cooper . they be people who have creativity not only in their artistry , but in their industry . they pioneer new method of work so that we could have the fine bone china , and come up with new technique for design ; the illustration on the plate , cup and tile that we all enjoy be at the cutting edge of new method , technology , pigment and material . the creativity that they draw upon as part of their industrial heritage remain , and we have the same skill and burn ambition to demonstrate who we be and what we do in Stoke - on - Trent today . some 4 , 000 job in Stoke - on - Trent be link directly to the creative sector ; if the supply chain be include , it would easily be two or three time that number . some 638 artist and artist organisation be recognise by the Stoke - on - Trent and North Staffordshire Cultural Education Partnership . in 2019 , there be 5 . 5 million tourist visit to Stoke - on - Trent — a narrative that we do not often hear from those who seek to denigrate the city I be proud to call home and represent in this place . sadly , some of that snobbish approach to my city come from our near neighbour , who seek to use the challenge that our city face for their own short - term political gain . I doubt that will stop any time soon . however , we be home to " the Great Pottery throw down " , which be on Channel 4 on Sunday evening ; Keith Brymer Jones and the team have make pottery glamorous Sunday night tv viewing . it demonstrate that the history of who we be be still very much part of the society and city that we want to be . I recently visit the impressive and very funky 1882 ceramic firm base in the World of Wedgwood in my Stoke - on - Trent South constituency , home of " the Great Pottery throw down " . the firm impress upon I its challenge in attract young apprentice , risk the loss of important creative heritage skill . do my hon . friend agree that we must remember the value of pottery and sculpture in our education curriculum review to protect this vibrant industry ? I agree with my hon . friend . our city have child in school who be unaware of our cultural heritage , which be their cultural heritage , and who do not play with clay in the way they should . we have school that decommission their kiln , despite the fact that the child ' s parent and grandparent would have train in those school , go into the industry and make good life for themselves from honest , hard work in what be essentially one of the country ' s early creative industry . my hon . friend be also right about the pipeline of talent . the big creative company in Stoke - on - Trent tell I that the University of Staffordshire be generate some of the high quality , most talented graduate in the country . when it come to computer game , technical production and animation , the course at the University of Staffordshire be rate as some of the good , if not the good , in the country . only this week , three of the big digital creative body in Stoke - on - Trent — i - Creation , Lesniak Swann and vccp — announce their new summer internship . that programme line young graduate up with professional work in the creative industry , and show they what their job and career could be — a job and a career that have value , pride and potential economic benefit for my city , because of the nature of the work that we can bring in . the Minister will know about the litany of success story in our city from a Westminster Hall debate that he kindly respond to a few week ago . I will not bore the House by repeat that list this evening . let I simply say that when the Government consider the future of the creative industry and where the talent pool should be — I know that the Minister agree , so I hope that he reiterate it when he wind up — we should bear in mind that if we can make it work in place such as Stoke - on - Trent , we can make it work anywhere . young people in my city who enjoy creative education and want to go on to do wonderful thing , whether in music , drama , dance , tech or ceramic and pottery , deserve the same opportunity as a child from London or any metropolitan city in the north of England . I hope that , as the new Government foster a new partnership with place such as Stoke - on - Trent , the creative industry can be central to it , so that the name we speak of in 20 or 30 year ' time , when we undoubtedly have this debate again , will be the name of those young people . I regret that I do not have the extensive music lyric knowledge of my hon . friend the Member for Gosport ( Dame Caroline Dinenage ) . neither do I have a career in a rock band like the hon . member for Wimbledon ( Mr Kohler ) , who , from what he say , seem to have be single - handedly responsible for shut down a favourite music venue . I have a constituency with a small but grow and thrive creative sector on the Isle of Wight . I be grateful to the Minister for take my early intervention . I will say something about my constituency in a moment , but I will briefly reflect on the national picture . clearly , there be a consensus across the House that the creative sector be hugely important and need continue support from the Government . from 2010 to 2022 , it be one of the fast grow sector in the UK economy , grow by 50 % . I be encourage by the Minister ' s warm word from the Dispatch Box , but clearly support for the creative industry have to go far than warm word . I have no doubt that he be sincere about back they up with action , but we can not take that for grant . neither can we ignore the damaging effect of decision in the Budget . it be entirely right that the shadow Secretary of State , my right hon . friend the Member for Daventry ( Stuart Andrew ) , raise the negative impact of the increase to national insurance employer contribution on the creative sector . we have rightly hear much in the last few month about the negative impact of national insurance contribution rise on business , large company , and the health sector , and I will continue to make those argument , but I worry that the negative impact on the creative industry have not fully be recognise . other Opposition Members mention it . I hope that the Minister have do this already , but I urge he to ensure that the Treasury do something to compensate the creative industry for the money that this rise will take . he might distribute £ 60 million , but it will mean little if some , or most , of it be take back by the Treasury in taxis . the Isle of Wight be well know for lot of thing , and be increasingly know as a location for film . that be help by Osborne House , the former home of her Majesty Queen Victoria . film base on her life be often shoot on location there , though I have to say that it be not in my constituency but the neighbour constituency of Isle of Wight West . we have small creative organisation such as Ventnor Exchange , Monkton Arts , and Department in Ryde , which be due to open next month with money from the National Lottery Heritage Fund and the Department for Culture , Media and Sport . we also have historical building that be keep alive only by the creative industry that operate in and around they , such as Shanklin theatre , which could not survive without all the volunteer work that be do . in small and large town across the country , fantastic building be keep alive only because of the creative industry that make use of they . I thank the Minister for the offer of a meeting with he or his Department about a film studio on the Isle of Wight . allow I to make a correction : sadly , the location for the film studio be in the neighbouring constituency of Isle of Wight West . I have already notify the hon . member for Isle of Wight West ( Mr Quigley ) that he have receive an offer of a meeting through I , which I be sure he will be delighted about . I would like to join he if I can be of assistance , because clearly it will benefit both constituency on the Isle of Wight to realise that studio . the issue be that while micro - organisation benefit from pot of funding that be suitable for small - scale project , and clearly national project of national interest can access money , medium - sized project such as rural film studio possibly struggle . I look forward to a conversation about that another time . the creative industry be rightly a priority for our Government , and I warmly welcome the Minister ' s speech , as will our creative in the coastal community of Scarborough and Whitby . have be a screenwriter by trade , I declare my membership of the Writers ' Guild of Great Britain . this have be a fascinating debate , and I rise to ask whether , in our headlong rush to embrace the white heat of scientific revolution , we be at risk of extinguish the spark of original human creativity . spark be indeed fly in the 1982 cult sci - fi film " Blade Runner " ; Ridley Scott draw upon the landscape where he grow up — the flaring oil stack of the refinery in the north - east , send up big fireball of gas — to create a dystopian future world where human battle synthetic human know as replicant . as we move into a future where artificial intelligence be no long the stuff of sci - fi film but the tool that will revolutionise our life , we should pause to ensure that we safeguard our original content creator , because unless we tighten copyright law around intellectual property to protect creator , AI datum mining will stem the flow of creative content . as my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Gareth Snell ) mention , the AI system that mine content to gain artificial intelligence could run out of new material in the next few year — this be know as model collapse — and generative AI model could start train on their own low - quality output . to return to " Blade Runner " , the replicant would be breed with the replicant . to enjoy a future that protect human creativity , we should reform the UK text and datum mining regime to place the onus on GAI firm to seek permission from right holder to use their original publish work . amendment table by Baroness Kidron to the Data ( Use and Access ) Bill , which will be discuss shortly in the other place , offer meaningful transparency provision that would make the UK ' s gold - standard copyright regime enforceable and counter the widespread theft of intellectual copyright by AI company . the amendment chime with public opinion , and I ask the Minister to reflect on whether the Government will support they . I finish with dialogue from " Blade Runner " — word speak by the replicant Roy Batty : " I ' ve see thing you people wouldn ' t believe . attack ship on fire off the shoulder of Orion . I watch C - beam glitter in the dark near the Tannh ä user Gate . all those moment will be lose in time , like tear in rain . " we must act to protect our creative talent in the UK — the screenwriter who write those unforgettable line , and all future writer . in the fight to win the battle for intellectual copyright , surely we must be on the side of the human , not the replicant . I declare an interest , as I have receive donation from Stellar Entertainment . my constituency of Guildford be a fantastic and varied creative hub for the south - east , and I could speak on the subject at length , but today I want to champion one of our great success story and advocate for a fair deal for the UK ' s fantastic creative industry . Guildford be often describe as the Hollywood of the UK gaming industry . it be a hub of innovation and creativity that have put our town on the global map . while Guildford ' s gaming studio continue to achieve extraordinary success with game such as " littlebigplanet " , " Baldur ' s Gate 3 " and " no man ' s sky " to name just a few , there be much more that we can do to support the sector , and the creative art industry more widely , and ensure their continue growth . we would not have the talent we have today without strong education and skill . our young people deserve the tool to thrive in the industry of tomorrow , and that include the computer game industry . that be why I back call for the introduction of a digital creativity GCSE . the qualification would equip student with the skill they need for a career in video game development , visual effect and other digital creative field . it would also signal that the UK value those industry and be serious about nurture home - grow talent , but this issue go beyond skill ; it be also about who get to be part of the industry ' s success . woman , people from economically disadvantaged background and ethnic minority remain under - represent in the gaming industry . the lack of diversity not just perpetuate inequality , but hold the industry back . creative content thrive when it draw from a wide range of perspective and culture . if we recruit from only one demographic , gender or economic group , the result be a duller , less innovative industry . that be yet another reason to enable access to high - quality , industry - support training , and to the creative art , in every state school in the UK . Liberal Democrats believe that nurture the creative art be crucial . we believe in invest in education , acknowledge diversity and create opportunity for everyone to succeed . the UK ' s creative industry be an economic powerhouse and source of inspiration for people around the world . where we lead , other enthusiastically follow . one aspect of that global leadership be our copyright law , which be widely consider to be some of the good in the world . they not only give strong protection to creator but make reasonable allowance for legitimate use in research , criticism and news reporting . in the light of the grow use of AI , and the Government ' s recent announcement on the subject , creator from across the industry have speak to I , and clearly to other member , about their concern that propose change will put the right of creator at risk . I want to be clear : creator I speak to are generally optimistic about the potential benefit of AI for their work . creator be not fearful of AI ; they be fearful that their intellectual property will no long be protect , and that their livelihood will be put at risk . the opt - out model the Government be champion on AI and copyright have be show , through its european equivalent , not to work . my hon . friend the Member for Cheltenham ( Max Wilkinson ) set that out in great detail , and I be grateful to he for that . I ask the Minister to ensure that he engage thoroughly with the creative industry on this issue to find alternative that work for creative . we need to take the lead globally on it . other nation be watch the approach we take , and will follow suit , as they do in many other area relate to the creative industry . the creative art be a lifelong passion of mine , and I be pleased that one of my son be train for a career in the perform art , but I be worried that his future will be in jeopardy , just as many worry about their future , if we continue on this path when it come to copyright and intellectual property . we do not spend enough time in this Chamber in conversation about the UK ' s world - lead creative industry and creativity , which be fundamental to what it mean to be human . I be grateful for the opportunity for this debate , and I hope that the Government will take on board the sensible point raise across the House , so that together we can ensure that the UK continue to be a global leader in the creative industry . I be glad to contribute to the debate , and while I may not have any book with film option , or be a former rockstar , I have family and friend who work in the creative industry , be it in film , music or magazine . our creative industry be one of the most valuable growth sector in the UK , generate £ 125 billion for the economy in 2023 and account for one in seven job across the country . perhaps most importantly , the creative industry embed in our town and city have intrinsic cultural value . they provide share social experience that contribute to a sense of place , build on local heritage and contribute to our health and wellbeing . Luton have a rich history of artistic innovation , creativity and design . for over 200 year , we be the primary place in the UK for the production of lady ' hat . the industry peak in the 1930 , when we produce over 70 million hat annually . of course , that be why our beloved Luton Town FC be know as the Hatters . Artistry have be at the heart of our town ' s economy across three century , and we hold on to that with pride today . we be a place of make — historically , hat and car ; now , computer system , game , film and music . we be lucky enough to have several independent music venue in Luton , include the Hat Factory art centre , the Bear Club , and the Castle , one of Luton ' s old and most beloved pub , which be support Independent Venue Week this week . it be put on six night of live music and support the independent art , alongside the 200 other venue take part across the country . we can not overestimate the value of our grassroots music venue and the platform they give to new and emerge artist , offer they their first opportunity to perform and develop their craft and provide the essential pipeline for tomorrow ' s megastar and household name . indeed , when Luton host Radio 1 ' s big Weekend in May 2024 , one of our town ' s very own , Myles Smith , feature on BBC Music ' s introduce stage , and he have since perform on Jools Holland ' s show . he break the United States on tour and win the rise star Brit award , and this year he have be nominate for three Brit award . that success highlight the value of exposure for independent artist . I be somewhat surprised by the comment from the Opposition Front - Bench spokesperson early about support art and culture . I accept the point make by other about the culture recovery fund , but our creative industry be hold back under the Tories . art funding fall by almost 50 % per person in real term , and local government revenue funding for culture and relate service decrease by 48 % in England , alongside rise cost and demand pressure on statutory service . those funding cut have enact enormous damage to the pipeline of talent in the industry , to the provision of local art and to the availability of work in the perform art . in 2012 , university grant deliver course such as music , drama and other art subject be cut by 50 % , which be particularly detrimental for disabled , black , asian and minority ethnic student and student from low socioeconomic background . that create an additional obstacle for student who already face multiple barrier to study subject such as music in high education . if we really want to break down barrier to opportunity , we must ensure that there be adequate access to a dedicated art and music curriculum for student at every point in their education , and I very much welcome the Minister ' s early comment on that issue . such access be fundamental not only to support talent to thrive , but to ensure that child develop . study have find that child expose to music tuition display well cognitive performance in their reading and comprehension skill . I thank Luton Music Service and all the volunteer parent for the great work they do with child and young people in my constituency . I would also like to say how much I enjoy the Christmas performance by the show choir , the senior guitar , the junior string , the funk band and the rock band , among the many other group that perform that weekend , who display immense talent . I be glad that this Labour Government have recognise the value of our creative industry and that we be work to reverse the damage do under the previous Conservative Government . I welcome the £ 60 million package of support announce this month to drive growth , include the £ 40 million investment for start - up video game studio , british music and film export , and creative business outside London . I also welcome the launch of the Soft Power Council , which bring together expert from across culture , sport , the creative industry and geopolitic to showcase the good of Britain around the world . our creative industry have be underfunde and undervalue for too long , but I be confident that as we prioritise the art and creative industry within our industrial strategy , the UK will have a firm stand on the world stage , boost economic growth , unlock opportunity and lead as industry innovator . I refer member to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . it have be a long time since we have have the Floor of the House of Commons for a debate on the creative industry , and it be always a fantastic debate . indicate assent . I see the Minister nod along . we find out about all the dynamic enterprise and cultural activity in Members ’ constituency but , more than that , we find out about our colleague ' hide talent . I be as surprised as anybody to hear that we have a veteran of the punk day at the Roxy , as well as singer and film writer . we have an abundance of talent in the House , so I feel a bit more confident now : I lose my colleague in MP4 when they stand down at the last election , so I be actively recruit , and my door be open to any aspire musician who want to perform in MP4 . as usual in these debate , there have be a chorus of approval , support and satisfaction — as there should be — when it come to the quality of the UK creative industry . we just do these thing so well , and that quality have be ingrain in our cultural output . there be something that we do across the whole of these isle that just produce this conveyor belt of talent , imagination and creativity . we have successful creative industry because of the imagination of the people of this country . be it not great that we can turn around and say that we could power our economy base on the creativity , invention and imagination of the people who inhabit these isle ? but we need more than that to be successful . these thing be mostly down to the creativity of the people who work in our creative industry , but we also need the right condition : we need to provide the context and the environment for these creative industry to survive , develop and thrive . for the last 60 year , we have be quite good at do that . we have intervene when necessary . we have have conversation and debate about investment , what sort of support should go into the creative industry and whether we get the balance right . of course , there have be political debate about Budgets and national insurance contribution , but we have basically have the right condition for art and creativity , and the industry that come with they , to develop and thrive . we have those thing because we have an ip system embed in UK law that be the envy of the world . it be the bedrock of our creative industry and the foundation of our success . part of that be our wonderful copyright regime , which , again , be the envy of the world . it make sure that artist be properly compensate for the wonderful work they produce , and ensure that they get recognise for the work they deliver . we tamper with all of that at our peril . we have be here before . back in the 2010 , when copyright exception be quite the fashion , the threat to so many of our creative industry be not from AI company ; it be from the internet service provider , the pirate and digitisation . isn ' t it funny that it be always the creative industry that be on the frontline when there be technical innovation ? it be always the creative industry that seem to have to suffer because of what we be try to achieve through technological innovation . look around the Chamber , I think that only the Minister and the right hon . member for Maldon ( Sir John Whittingdale ) be veteran of the Digital Economy Act 2017 . that be probably the high point of the interest in copyright exception . then , of course , the general philosophical debate be all around an unfettered internet that be to be free at the point of use for everybody . there be this absurd business model that we could somehow have all this high - quality content , and we would not have to pay for any of it . of course , that be quickly knock on its head , but we have its legacy with the arrival of the huge tech platform , with tech brother get together and develop their own company . we have massive tech company that provide nothing other than platform and that create very little of the content , and they be grow rich and fat off the creativity and invention of the people who actually provide that content — the artist and musician themselves . the value gap between the musician , or the artist , and these big platform and company be something that we will have to address . however , I do not think that we have ever have such a threat as generative AI ; that be what we be look at now . it say in my note that I should have a go at the Minister now for have already make up his mind , but I be actually a bit reassure by what he say , and I think all of we should be encourage . I really do think that the Government have make up their mind ; I think that they be go to go down the opt - out route without qualification . all the thing they have say up to this point certainly seem to confirm that , and the Minister ' s grumpy tone during the statement on these issue do not help matter much , particularly when he have a go at the Chair of the Culture , Media and Sport Committee . it be good to have that reassurance , but what we now have to do — I be look at colleague who have contribute to the debate and express their concern — be encourage the Minister gently , through persuasion . he know the view of the industry and the sector , and I think he know that it be overwhelmingly negative . he will not be able to find anybody in any creative sector who be tell he that what he propose with the opt - out will work or be good for the creative industry or even for AI . we have hear from several colleague about this idea of a model breakdown , where AI start to feed on itself . that be what we can expect , and I think the analogy with " Blade Runner " be fantastic . that be exactly where we will be go if we allow unfettered AI development to continue along the same line . we have reach a really interesting point tonight . I think the Government be probably go to reconsider their position . they be go to take on board what member have say — indicate dissent . I see the Minister shake his head , but perhaps he will clarify all this when he get to his foot . I know that the Government think they have a solution that somehow support both the AI sector and the creative industry sector , but nobody actually believe that . I be sorry , Minister , but no one could go along with the idea that somehow , open up the nation ' s creative work to be scrape and mine would ever get we to a situation that could possibly be useful for the creative industry . I do not think it would be useful for the AI sector , either . that be a really important point when it come to all of this , and we need to look at it properly . lastly , we have hear a few myth , include the idea that there be somehow unclarity about the law that embed our copyright regime . that be just nonsense — nobody actually believe that . I do not think that even AI company would say that there be any question about the legality of the copyright regime ; it be just something that minister trawl out to try to create uncertainty in the sector , and it do not work . the one thing that be absolutely certain be that if we do allow AI company to engage in unfettered text and data mining , there will be real difficulty . some of the scenario that have be paint by other member who have speak will be realise , and that will be very damaging for this Government . we know that the Government be invest in AI . they be in an economic mess , and they be look to grab at anything that will give they some sort of comfort . AI be obviously one of the area they have identify that might bring this promise growth , give they some sort of confidence and reassurance that what they be try to do with the economy might get it to where they be seek to take it , but we can not be obsessively fixate on AI at the cost of so much of our heritage and culture . where it be right that this Government proceed with AI , they have to take a balanced approach , one that look after the interest of our nation ' s creator , inventor and artist . so far , they have not be able to do so , but there be encourage sign , so I be look forward to the Minister ' s response this evening . I hope that what he say will encourage we far . it have be a pleasure to listen to speech from Members right across the Chamber , and particularly to hear — as other have say — insight root in the particular musical and literary talent of member . sadly , I have zero contribution to make in term of talent ; I can inform member that I have regularly enjoy the output of music on many a dance floor , particularly during my student day , but that be as far as my talent will take I . I also want to acknowledge the powerful point make about AI — it be a complicated picture , and will be an important continue debate . that will be incredibly important as we consider the creative industry as one of Britain ' s success story . they be some of our most successful export and big growth opportunity — a way of project our soft power across the world , as other member have say . the creative industry add £ 120 billion in value to our economy , and have grow by 35 % since 2010 . economically , those industry be an important area for debate , account for one in seven job in the country . that success have take place despite inaction from the Government of the past . in recent year , the investment per person that allow people to access those creative cultural experience have fall by 50 % in real term , and funding for the art and cultural organisation have fall by 18 % in the past 14 year . as my hon . friend the Member for Luton South and South Bedfordshire ( Rachel Hopkins ) reference , £ 1 billion be cut from local authority . those cut have undoubtedly have a generational impact on the young people who lose out on opportunity to experience cultural activity . as a London MP and an ex - London council leader , I can tell the House that even in the cultural hub that be London — the good city in the world for cultural activity , some might say — many community , include those I represent in Barking and Dagenham , do not have access to creativity , be that dance or music lesson , go to the theatre or cinema trip . that be why access programme , include for my constituent in Barking , be so important — access to job and opportunity within the industry , and to enjoy more form of art and culture , the art and culture that my community in Barking and Dagenham so often refer to as their inspiration . local authority be lead the way in establish and support creative industry to help to grow their local economy , provide new opportunity for those who need they and encourage more access to the art . it be important to welcome the activity that local authority up and down the country have engage in even when they have be under so much pressure . when I be a council leader , I work towards the transformation of an industrial site from a poorly use employment space to a film studio own by the local authority and lease to a film company base in Hollywood , use for film feature actor from across the world . that be not unique to the area I represent at the time ; as I say , council across the country be do such thing . as the Member of Parliament for Barking , I be so proud that in Barking and Dagenham , Welbeck wharf — originally a steel distribution site , buy by the local authority and lease to the wharf Studios — be home to the large new film studio in 25 year . since 2022 , the council have work with the studio to tackle the skill gap in the borough , which be significant , and the diversity gap in the film industry . the studio have engage with local school and college and provide new training and job opportunity . More than 1 , 000 pupil have be give hand - on experience in skill such as lighting , camera work , production and make - up , and many local people have be employ in film in the borough . More than 1 , 000 resident have attend free screening event , provide access to new culture and art in a way that simply would not have be possible before . I be particularly excited that the world - famous Tate gallery and the borough of Barking and Dagenham have reach agreement on a new memorandum of understanding that could see a new Tate collection open in Barking Riverside , and I put on record my support for that proposal . such investment in the area I represent will make a huge contribution to Barking and Dagenham . in many instance , success be the result of private and public partnership . I know that the sector welcome the Government ' s £ 60 million investment in the creative industry , as well as its core part in the new industrial strategy . I be concern about report that most tax relief — around half for film production and 75 % for tv production — go to those that make the very large claim . in fact , accord to HMRC datum , half of the total film relief claim go to just 15 company . that be why I welcome the new relief that the Government have announce for small , independent film production . I think it will make a real difference to area that want more film to be make , and that want the cultural industry to contribute to the local economy . the growth of creative industry in the UK will contribute to our economy , in part because of the international investment they attract . as that investment take place and as the creative industry benefit from tax break , however , local community such as those I represent in Barking and Dagenham must benefit from that economic vibrancy . they must benefit from job and skill opportunity , and we should hold the creative industry to account for that . in 2017 , my constituency feature heavily in the music chart , thank to rapper Ramz ' s debut single " bark " — I be not go to sing it — which include the lyric " I might link my ting from Barking . " that be one of the thing that make I instantly slightly cool when I be select to be the candidate for bark at the general election . I hope that as the Government , business and local authority continue to foster creative industry , barking will feature not only in the music chart , but in award - win cinema and other output from those industry . they make an incredible contribution to our economy , and resident in Barking and Dagenham can benefit from a Government who be supportive of the creative industry . I want to add my voice to those of hon . member who have speak about the crucial role of the creative industry in the UK economy . the Minister may be relieve that I will not be take he to task tonight for the broadband and mobile coverage in rural part of my constituency . the creative industry be among the UK ' s most dynamic and fast - grow sector . in the 12 year between 2010 and 2022 , the sector grow by more than 50 % , compare with growth in the rest of the economy of some 22 % . in 2022 alone , the creative industry contribute a staggering £ 125 billion to the UK economy and employ 2 . 4 million people . this be a great british success story . despite the sector ' s impressive contribution to the economy , it face significant challenge follow the autumn Budget . the increase in national insurance contribution pose a significant financial burden for many creative business , and despite Labour Members ' protestation about so - call conservative cut , they seem unaware that the DCMS budget for next year will be low than that for this year . as be the case for sme in sector right across the country , this Budget have punish many of those who serve as our growth engine . it be estimate that more than 350 grassroot music venue be at immediate risk of closure , potentially lead to a loss of more than 12 , 000 job and £ 250 million across the overall economy . the Music Venue Trust outline in its response to the Budget a clear threat to both the live music industry and the many job it support . for an example of how the creative industry be try to weather these challenge , we need look no far than Somerset Film , which be base in my constituency of Bridgwater . Somerset Film have be at the forefront of nurture local talent and provide access to the creative industry since 1997 . the Engine Room , locate right on Bridgwater ' s High Street , serve as a vital community hub . it be here that young people and local resident receive training in media production from film make to digital storytelling . this be not just about create film ; it be about create opportunity . the charity have help thousand of individual from all walk of life to access hand - on training . its training , community engagement and career development programme be essential in make sure that the next generation of talent have the skill , knowledge and connection to succeed . thank to recent investment such as £ 500 , 000 of town deal funding from the previous Government , Somerset Film have be able to expand its facility , improve equipment and reach more young people . the expansion also allow for new creative event , include public film exhibition and more training opportunity for people in the region . all this would not be possible without the work of its creative director , Deb Richardson , and her fantastic team . thank to programme such as Screen Somerset and collaboration with organisation such as Creative England , the region have become a key player in the UK ' s film production network . the creative industry also have an important role in revitalise local economy , and as the film and tv sector grow , the economic benefit extend far beyond the screen . local hotel , hospitality and service industry all see significant boost from the influx of film production team . in fact , the Screen Somerset project have already contribute million to the local economy . for all the potential , however , there be a recognition that challenge be ahead . the British Film Institute skill review this month have highlight critical crew shortage in the UK film industry that have put stress on production schedule and workspace . to address those gap , the review call for great investment and training , and a more localise approach to production . this be where organisation such as Somerset Film play a pivotal role . as we look to the future , let we continue to support the creative industry through thoughtful investment , and ensure that those in the sector have the resource and opportunity they need to thrive . it be a pleasure to take part in this debate on an incredibly important issue . we have hear throughout the debate , not least from the Minister , about the astonishing economic impact of our creative industry , with a £ 125 billion contribution to our economy — almost 5 % of our total economic output — and more than 2 . 4 million people employ in the creative industry , make up 7 % of all the job in the UK . here be the challenge , however : despite these remarkable contribution , the benefit be not evenly distribute . indeed , more than half the economic output from the creative industry in this country be concentrate in London alone . in contrast , our post - industrial heartland — and especially their town , such as Hartlepool — have often be overlook in favour of place where wealth and opportunity already exist . time and again , decision seem to focus on the cost of everything , but the value of nothing , because it be easy to grow where the ground be already fertile , rather than invest in place where it could have the great impact in lift community , unlock talent and transform life . I believe we have an opportunity as a Government to change that narrative , with town such as Hartlepool at the heart of the change . we have the people , and we have the talent . nothing symbolise that well than the Northern School of Art . my hon . friend the Member for Scarborough and Whitby ( Alison Hume ) mention Sir Ridley Scott , and it be at a precursor to the Northern School of Art — the West Hartlepool College of Art — that he film his very first movie , " boy and Bicycle " , which be shoot exclusively with Hartlepool as its background . he famously describe the town as " a very visual place , a very beautiful place " , and he be not wrong . today the Northern School of Art operate from both its historic site and a brand - new campus , which be more than just a collection of building . it be a symbol of opportunity . it house cut - edge facility , include sound stage for film and television production , serve both educational and commercial need . Hartlepool be become a hub for education and production in the screen industry , give student and professional alike a place to learn , innovate and thrive . it be a vision of what be possible if we spread investment to every part of our country . the creative industry be not confine to the traditional realm of art , film and music . let we not forget the often overlook but equally vital role play by designer , planner and graphic artist . Hartlepool College of Further Education provide student with skill in the design - focus career that be essential to every sector from technology to business and healthcare . these skill be the backbone of industry across the country , ensure that organisation innovate and function smoothly . Hartlepool ' s creative spirit go beyond design and the art . it extend into area such as health and social care . the health and social care academy at our hospital in Hartlepool be a shine example of how creative industry can drive innovation in unexpected place . during a recent visit , I be deeply impressed by its approach to scenario - base training . the ability to create safe , realistic environment for NHS and social care trainee — from handle knife crime incident to assist patient with physical impairment — be nothing short of inspire . this be live proof that creative training can support vital industry and ultimately save life . Hartlepool be also make its mark globally through business such as Tanglewood Games , and I draw member ' attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . Tanglewood be part of a rapidly grow video game sector , create job and training opportunity in an industry that be now a global economic powerhouse . with blockbuster game such as " Fortnite " and " Hogwarts Legacy " , Tanglewood Games be help to put Hartlepool on the map , contribute to the success of some of the world ' s highest - gross game . look ahead , Hartlepool ' s ambition continue to soar with plan for a production village . this initiative will not only strengthen our position in the screen industry , but complement similar project across the north - east , create opportunity for collaboration rather than competition . that will ensure that our region be recognise as a vital part of the UK ' s creative economy , and that investment flow to where it can make the most difference . however , these effort and transformative investment be about more than just brick and mortar ; they be about people . they be about give Hartlepool resident the skill , job and opportunity they need to secure their future , and they be about combine the creativity of today with the strength of our traditional industry to create a more prosperous , more resilient economy . this be the future I want to see for Hartlepool , but we must take tough action . we should perhaps ditch the traditional orthodoxy of chase GDP growth in favour of a long - term project for part of the country that have too often be leave behind , invest in people , community and creative potential , and ensure that no one be leave behind and that the UK ' s creative industry continue to grow . let we not just talk about equality and opportunity ; let we act on it . it be a privilege to stand here to talk about our creative industry . at a time when Britain ' s international influence have be wane , those industry remain a powerful testament to what we can achieve , shape our global reputation for innovation and cultural strength . beyond the enormous economic value of more than £ 100 billion contribute to our economy each year , our creative sector exert a profound soft power that showcase british excellence , from Venice to Osaka and in every corner of the world . much of the spending in this area be devolve , but the principle and opportunity extend UK wide . indeed , the right hon . member for Maldon ( Sir John Whittingdale ) mention David Tennant , who start out in Scotland . we be see the important role that the art play in young people ' s academic development in the move from a STEM approach , to one of science , technology , engineering and math education also include the art . creative subject foster development that enhance the learning of science and technology , produce innovation in industry as well as in the creative industry . the hon . member for Hartlepool ( Mr Brash ) mention how the creative industry have a broad influence in our social care sector , and I want to highlight how creative industry at the grassroot benefit our community and reduce cost to the NHS and social care . my constituency contain numerous example , such as the Kirkintilloch Players , the Antonine theatre group , and Creative Spark Theatre Arts . they connect young people , develop their confidence , creativity and social skill , use the power of the art . programme such as the East Dunbartonshire initiative for creative therapy — EDICT — demonstrate the social benefit of art funding , provide service to help people manage mental health challenge , and support those on the autism spectrum . by offer a creative outlet and constructive way to cope , those organisation reduce the strain on our already stretch NHS and transform the life of those who need it . however clear the social and cultural benefit provide by our creative industry be , serious challenge persist . since 2010 , fund for local art and culture have fall by £ 2 . 3 billion in real term . while the UK cut its art and culture provision by around 6 % , other OECD country such as Germany , France and Finland increase theirs in the same period by 22 % , 25 % , and 70 % respectively . the loss of grassroots support threaten the stability and future growth of community - base art organisation and the wellbeing of our community . EDICT in my community experience a 70 % funding reduction at the end of last year . as Liberal Democrats we believe in fund the creative art , include fine art , music , theatre , literature , film , digital and medium , which be crucial to maintain a talented skilled workforce and a healthy and vibrant economy . I have work in the creative industry all my work life , from help my father to sell radio and television when I be a teenager , to present radio show on station across Scotland and support business by create content for website . today , I want to address the disconnect between creativity and cost , and say why we must all support the creative industry with good review , warm wish , and — most importantly — with money . how many of we use Wikipedia daily but ignore its annual appeal for donation ? how many say that we value local journalism yet resent paywall ? in most area we accept the principle of a fair day ' s pay for a fair day ' s work , but the creative industry often face a double standard , as many who wouldn ' t pocket a bookie ' s pencil think nothing of use content without the necessary permission . such behaviour be regrettable in individual , but it be unforgivable in organisation . we can all do well . for example , if local authority can pay million annually for software licence , why not pay a fair rate , not the minimum rate , for creative content ? teacher use streaming service in classroom , or pupil rely on Wikipedia , could be support by institutional subscription or donation that go to the people or organisation provide the content . let the public sector lead by example , change how we value and pay for creative content , and strengthen the relationship we have with the creative sector . we should set the example and introduce the legislation that we need AI software provider to follow . in our personal life , if someone be a podcast listener , they should not always ignore the request for that proverbial cup of coffee or an upgrade to a monthly subscription . if someone see an article they want to read in a newspaper , they should buy the newspaper , not try to find a pal who will take a picture of it and WhatsApp it to they . in my career I have see creative contribution undervalue . business often pay a high proportion of their budget for the technical process of build website , but neglect the content — the very part that engage user . too often creator hear , " I can do it myself " , when what be really need be professional skill . we will struggle to find an artist or artisan who do not have multiple story of offer of " exposure " or " experience " rather than money as payment for service . exposure do not pay the bill . if someone would expect to be pay fairly for their work , they should extend the same respect to artist , artisan , writer and designer . AI offer exciting possibility for productivity and innovation , much like the smartphone revolution , which be now in its 17th year . AI can help creator clean up poor audio recording or automate repetitive task , allow they to focus on what they do well . however , we have see the unintended consequence of the smartphone era , for example on mental health and social development , and we must learn from that . AI be a tool , not a replacement for human creativity , and like any tool it need oversight and ethical guidance . it need an instruction manual , preferably not one write by the tool itself . before I conclude my remark I want to highlight a place where we can all go to be creative — a place that can sometimes struggle to be high on our agenda when we be focus on the big , the exciting or the new . I be talk about the local library . library be the NHS for the soul . they be fund by our taxis , and free at the point of delivery and point of need . library offer more than book ; they offer a help hand and a supportive friend , often when people need it most . library improve we , enrich we , and inspire we . a library can make the difference : to a child discover their love of reading , to an adult learn new skill , or to someone find the support that they need to change their life . yet many library today focus on survive rather than thriving , and year of underfunding have leave they struggle to provide their essential service . not everybody have the space , the time , the skill or the hardware to engage with AI , but they will find all that help in the local library , provide by our wonderful librarian and library support staff . in my constituency , local people be organise against the propose closure of Auchterarder library in the come financial year , and in Stirling the music tuition service be face sweeping cut . it be difficult to measure inspiration and joy , but it be easy to undervalue they . if we lose music tuition from our school and library from our community , we will lose part of our civic soul . the creator and the industry that support they add colour and joy to our life . by value creator , compensate they fairly and safeguard the space and framework in which they operate , we can ensure we have a creative sector that thrive , be value and add value to our life and our economy . we should start from the principle that creative output be link to its creator and ensure that our law reflect that , because when creativity flourish , so do society . as we mark Holocaust Memorial Day and the 80th anniversary of the liberation of Auschwitz - Birkenau , it seem appropriate that we be debate the creative industry . I say that because the Holocaust be a brutal attempt by the Nazis to wipe out people and their culture , and it be creative industry that be at the heart of grow and protect our culture and help wide society to thrive , rather than just survive . what be culture ? on a light note , be it I when I be at university many year ago , busk with an accordion in Sauchiehall Street in Glasgow ? that might be stretch it a bit . hunted cow Studios in Elgin perhaps have a well shout . it produce a range of massively multiplayer online role - playing game , and its game graphic have include a 3d - render Elgin cathedral . be it F è be Sp è or any of the other f è be across Scotland that promote Gaelic culture through poetry , music and song , particularly with primary schoolchildren and secondary schoolchildren , bring new generation to connect with that wide culture and make the traditional artist of the future ? be it those involve in make the critically acclaim " Outlander " tv series , which have be film in the heart of my constituency in the Cairngorms at Newtonmore ? be it even my wife ' s aunt Margaret , who be a master kiltmaker in Grantown - on - spey ? be it the luxury designer brand , Johnstons of Elgin , a family business that have be produce designer cashmere and tweed product for more than 200 year and employ around 650 incredibly highly skilled craftsman and woman ? could it be my tenuous link to creative genius ? that be not my great - grandmother , who be a midwife in the valley of Wales , but Richard Burton , whom she deliver . I have not even touch on museum , tour dance group , orchestra , Scottish Opera or amateur dramatic group , which employ writer , set designer and sound and lighting engineer . we have music venue , from a function room above a pub to the OVO Hydro in Glasgow and Murrayfield in Edinburgh . in music , my hon . friend the Member for Perth and Kinross - shire ( Pete Wishart ) have a past life as the keyboardist in a well - know celtic rock band , Runrig . be a shrink violet , he do not tell anybody about that . they be the first band to get in the UK top 40 with a song entirely in Gaelic , " an Ubhal as à irde " . that underline the vital link between the creative industry and a thriving society and culture . I recently attend a book launch in Elgin by Iain MacLachlain , a local writer who have write many book and struggle to get they publish , as niche writer often do , however well they write . he have write it in scot , and traditional language publishing be even hard to do . his book have be publish by the small specialist publisher Rymour , with the support of a grant from the Scottish Government to support Scots language development . despite all these incredible creative , it be not all positive . some of the most creative people create their good work in the beauty and splendour of the north of Scotland , across the highland and island , Moray and Aberdeenshire . where I live , the Government ' s close priority region for funding be the Edinburgh - Dundee corridor , which be well over 100 mile and a two - and - a - half - hour drive away . that be considerably far than the distance from the constituency of the hon . member for Caithness , Sutherland and Easter Ross ( Jamie Stone ) . the most fragile rural economy , especially those at the heart of Scotland ' s Gaelic culture , run the risk of be sideline , despite the sterling effort with production such as " an t - Eilean " . another area of concern be the BBC ' s regional spend . the funding allocate to regional spend could be use to pay for production and editorial work much far away from that region . we need to be careful about that and scrutinise regional spend carefully to ensure that it be be spend in the region it be mean for . on AI , many other in the Chamber have say thing that I would have say , so I will not go deeply into the subject ; I agree with pretty much everything that have be say . we have to be incredibly careful with AI . the creative industry be an economic growth success throughout these island , so we should not try to put artificial region or box around they . we should support those industry to grow and thrive wherever our creative be live and work , and we should not tie they up in copyright change that reduce their output and force they to chase the protection they rightly expect for their creative work . from mural on beachside walk to a thriving cornish film industry , and from a town - council - own art gallery , theatre and library , to live music , include the big international shanty festival in the world , during which the population of Falmouth triple , we be bless with the creative art in Truro and Falmouth . they be all around we , all the time , but none of that would exist and impact our life in such a positive or poignant way be it not for education in the creative art . the world - class Falmouth University grow out of a 100 - year - old art school with a strategic focus on creativity and technology . the campus on Woodlane be historic . alumnus include visual artist Tacita Dean and british sculptor Hew Locke . it lead the world in digital game design — I think it do , although it seem that so do Guildford and Hartlepool — as well as fashion design , film , costume and many other thing . art be all around we in Falmouth , and we should celebrate the role it play in our life and our economy . I welcome the inclusion of the creative industry among the UK ' s eight growth sector in the Government ' s recent industrial strategy . it be brilliant that the creative industry be recognise for the economic driver that they be . in 2022 , as many have say — it bear repeat — Britain ' s creative industry generate £ 125 billion , which account for almost 6 % of the UK economy and represent nearly 2 . 5 million job . they contribute more than £ 8 billion to the UK economy every year . our globally love art scene have a huge impact on the tourism economy . one in 10 tourist to the UK visit a theatre , for example , and theatre sell 34 million ticket a year across the UK . as well as the recently beautifully renovate Hall for Cornwall and the Princess Pavilion , which be also own by Falmouth town council , in Cornwall we have the Minack , a famous open - air theatre carve into the granite cliff overlook Porthcurno bay . in the summer month , it be not uncommon for the dolphin to interrupt Shakespeare . none of those thing would be possible be it not for creative art education at school , and in high education institution such as Falmouth University . a creative education have many positive for student . not only do it allow they to create , but the long - term skill gain from an art education , such as critical thinking and problem - solve , impact on other industry , such as tech and digital medium . that drive economic growth . Falmouth lead the way in AI ; engineer Arts be build increasingly complex robot by the sea , and it be try to grow , despite the lack of industrial space in the area . as we see in Cornwall , creative art be a regional growth driver . Cornwall be teem with small and medium - sized enterprise and one - man band that stimulate the independent sector and the growth of the whole area . that can be a vital lifeline for area that struggle with deprivation , as Cornwall do . as we see in Truro and Falmouth , creativity hub revitalise region , bring in the visitor that we need so much . take the example of the growth of the Hall for Cornwall : our theatre have spread tentacle across the rest of the Duchy , attract would - be actor and writer who want to get involve in the creative art , but do not often have the opportunity . in my constituency , we have the Poly , the Princess Pavilion and brilliant grassroots venue such as the Cornish Bank , the Old Bakery Studios and the Chintz , where musician who be learn go to practice their art . the Minister have mention the venue levy ; that will be vital for they . we be also build premise for a community radio station in the park with share prosperity funding . that show just how important the art be to Falmouth . People come to we for the art . however , that funding be not guarantee and be no long direct at plug the gap in local authority and national funding for art and culture in our area . I would love creativity to become a big part of the national curriculum , so that the art have the prominent place that they should for student of all age . steam — science , technology , engineering , art and math — put the creativity of the art alongside science and tech , where it belong . art be everywhere , but it do not come from thin air . like all other endeavour , creative endeavour require financial support , and that funding should not be piecemeal and only urban , but must be integrate into the wide industrial strategy , and form part of a long - term regional art strategy that reach all the way to place like Cornwall . the art also require universal enthusiasm and long - term education . as we see in Falmouth , it be well worth the investment . when we talk about cluster of excellence , Wales must be at the forefront of the discussion . it be the birthplace of many famous musician , actor and actress , and the House can be assure that a steady flow of talent be in pipeline . I know that because last night I take my two son to their first panto in Brecon , where we see the Westenders ' performance of " Robin Hood " — a community show , like many across the country , that bring people together as only the art can . whenever I go to these show , I notice the volunteer who sacrifice endless hour to make sure that the show go ahead . People spend a whole month wash all the costume that people wear during the performance . as far as I be aware , wash a whole cast ' s kit be something that AI can not yet do . that be why it be so important that we listen to the people at the grassroot of our creative industry , who face similar challenge across the country . we have hear that small town across the UK — Brecon be certainly up there — can provide a big stage for upcoming talent . it be important to keep develop that talent pipeline . sadly , the Welsh Government have propose a 9 % cut to the Arts Council ' s revenue budget for 2024 - 25 , which would come on top of a 10 . 5 % cut the year before , leave the revenue budget at its low since 2007 - 08 . that reduction will put far strain on an already vulnerable sector . as we hear from the hon . member for Caerfyrddin ( Ann Davies ) , the creative industry be a powerful force in Wales , contribute more than 5 % to our gdp and grow fast than the overall economy . with more than 35 , 000 people employ in the sector and a turnover of £ 1 . 5 billion in 2023 - 24 , it be clear how vital the creative industry be to the Welsh economy . Film and television have be a massive success story . Wales be a global powerhouse in the UK ' s medium landscape , with show such as " Gavin & Stacey " showcase our talent to million ; over 19 million people watch the final this Christmas . Rob Brydon and Ruth Jones , we commend you . it be time for my humblebrag : my mum go to Porthcawl comprehensive school with they both . the time for action to improve the art be now . I be glad that the Government be talk about their plan for a well deal for the art across the UK . we must make sure that include Wales . the Welsh creative industry , especially our music and art sector , must receive the support and investment that they need to survive and thrive . clearly , we have the talent and the potential , but we need meaningful long - term policy and investment to ensure that the sector continue to grow and flourish for future generation . as we have hear , the creative industry be a vital growth mechanism for the rural economy . that be why I be call for a creative enterprise zone to be establish in Brecon , Radnor and Cwm Tawe , to give a platform and all the help we can to the creative artist and musician across my constituency . at the weekend , the innovation , energy and entrepreneurship of the creative community in my constituency be on full display . off Season Margate — part of our share commitment to develop a year - round economy — be a weekend - long , town - wide exhibition of art create by a wide range of skilled creator , initiate by the award - win artist Lindsey Mendick . from oil paint to embroidery , sculpture to ceramic and photography to screen print , a whole range of skill be on display in the form of incredible art . this be a democratic exercise in the power of creativity , involve world - renowne artist Tracey Emin and raw artist — people display their work in front room and caf é s , as well as gallery , tell their story , and reflect their experience of the world through art . the weather play its part , because the sun be shine . Margate be buzz . it be a clear demonstration of my three key argument today : first , creativity be valuable not just because it be enjoy by the consumer , but because it benefit the creator . they must be appreciate . secondly , the creative industry have a crucial role to play in revitalise our coastal community , where so many creative choose to live . thirdly , if this fundamental element of our society and economy be to thrive , we must develop the pipeline — the next generation of artist — by enshrine creativity in our national curriculum . however , if we think of creativity simply as an industry , we lose something that make it special . creativity be fundamental to the human condition . it be weave into our daily life and our history . the first example of civilisation be carving on the wall of cave . those people choose to record the world around they . they choose to leave a mark . they express themselves and the life they live . the need to express ourselves flow through human history and exist in every single one of we , but the ability to tap into it be artificially limit by an inequality of access to the art . that be a failure of previous government , and because of it , we have few skilled creator and less well - rounded individual , and society be deplete . talent be find everywhere in our country , but as so many hon . member have point out , opportunity be not . if we do not allow every child the right to an art education , we will miss out on the next Tracey Emin or Bob and Roberta Smith . the damage do to creative education by the introduction of the english baccalaureate and Progress 8 , which lead to a dramatic fall in the number of student take up art - base subject , must be reverse at the early opportunity . I support that campaign , alongside member from across the House who share my concern about the impact of those change on our child , our society and our economy . how can we expect the creative industry to come anywhere close to their potential when the education system be actively dissuade child from study creative subject ? every art subject be important , and every child deserve an art education . as my badge from the Royal Academy of Arts say , " art be a serious subject . " art be never more serious than for child with special educational need , for whom creative education be a vital tool allow they to access learning and live their full life . Sammy ' s Foundation be set up by my constituent Patricia Alban after the tragic death of her son . Sammy have a rare genetic disease and autism and be unable to attend mainstream school , but he find his passion and skill in craft . the foundation now help other child with disability to learn heritage craft as a way of uncover their talent and to lead meaningful , connect life with a sense of purpose . consider we have a huge skill gap in our heritage craft sector , it feel to I that it be a win - win to invest in art education that harness the aptitude of neurodivergent child , prepare they for purposeful and rewarding work create beautiful thing and contribute to the economy , rather than see they as a problem to be manage . as well as inequality of access to the art , there be inequality of reward . accord to research from the University of Glasgow , the median income for visual artist be £ 12 , 500 a year — a 40 % decrease in earning since 2010 . that be almost 50 % low than the income of a full - time minimum wage worker . on top of that , one in three creative industry worker be freelance . when discuss the rise of AI and the challenge it pose for artist , my constituent be far from the luddite that some would like to dismiss they as . polling from the Design and Artists Copyright Society show that 84 % of artist would agree to license their work for AI training so long as they receive fair pay for it . however , they know that the fundamental act of creation be something that will always differentiate that which a machine have learn from what a human have make . their right to have that work protect , and their freedom to engage with AI on their term , be something on which I and many other will continue to seek reassurance from the Government . this be not about resist change ; it be about bring in change in a fair and equitable way . this be already a sector with low pay and a lack of security . if we do not put in proper safeguard , we will end up make job in this sector even more unappealing for those whose passion be to work in it . datum from the Creators ’ Rights Alliance show that 30 % of photographer have already lose client due to generative AI , while 26 % of illustrator and 36 % of translator have report lose work . two third of writer believe generative AI will cost they future earning . we can not afford to lose the idea and imagination of these people — they be the people build the amazing heritage of Thanet , to shape an economy that thrive all year round and create a pipeline of art and skilled creative for the whole country . they also project our soft power into the world . the benefit of investment in the creative sector in coastal community be demonstrate by the Turner Contemporary in my constituency , which have contribute to a lively ecosystem around the visual art , among many other thing — all without a university to support it . I look forward to there be a coastal dimension to the creative industrial strategy that can engender similar vibrancy and sustain such initiative for the long term . I , too , represent a coastal seat , and I , too , know how coastal seat have be forget as part of the national story about our creativity . Bournemouth be the resting place of Mary Shelley and be home to Robert Louis Stevenson , and it be also home to many institution such as Bournemouth University , the Arts University Bournemouth , the Russell - Cotes art museum and gallery and the Boscombe Arts Depot . the list could really go on — but I will not go on . do my hon . friend agree that coastal community such as our , which have vote Labour for the first time in a very long time — perhaps even for the first time — need their Labour Government to focus on their creative possibility and to support the job and skill of the future ? coastal community across the country be often place people escape to in order to find a place where they can really thrive . that be why coastal area will be so important in develop a proper creative industry strategy . East Thanet have long be an engine room for our country ' s creative industry . if its future be to be as glorious as its past , and if we be to continue to use our soft power globally through our internationally famous artist and creator , creativity need to be value in and of itself . creator need to be able to create with dignity and security , and all generation should be able to access art education to enhance their life and society as a whole . I be late in the debate , and we have a bit of a time limit already , so I will struggle to make all the point I would like to make . I will write to the Minister with any I fail to make — I think he know what I will be chase he up on . I want to follow the hon . member for Cheltenham ( Max Wilkinson ) and for Bury North ( Mr Frith ) in be a little philosophical with my point today . I believe that participation and enjoyment of the art be a human right , as article 27 of the universal declaration of human right say . it form part of our post - holocaust legacy of put together a strong framework to recognise and protect the purpose and value of humanity after we see just how bad thing can get . as a Green , I spend a lot of time work hard to ensure the continuation of our ecological and physical environment which be necessary for our civilisation , but the reason for our civilisation be just as much what get I out of bed in the morning to come and do this job . I would argue for the art and creativity , regardless of their impact on our gdp , any day of the week . last week , I have the very great honour of speak at the Music Venue Trust ' s annual report launch here on the parliamentary estate . I be absolutely delighted to do so because my constituency be home to so many amazing grassroots music and performance venue . we have the Green Door Store , Alphabet , Rossi Bar , the Prince Albert , Hope and Ruin , the Folklore Rooms , Komedia — I could go on and on . since I be elect , I have be shock at the amount of work venue and their ally still have to do to fight off damaging development . in 2023 , as other member have mention , the Music Venue Trust report that we lose 125 trading grassroot music venue . that trend have now reduce , but it be still not zero . the Music Venue Trust ' s emergency response service — it have a huge caseload , with more than 200 case last year — have a very good success rate in fight off terrible planning application , but it do so alongside music venue that be put a lot of time and effort into that work . we be still see far too many appeal take forward , some of which be successful . I recognise that the adoption of the agent of change principle guidance in the NPPF have make a difference , but we need to go far . what remain to be do be to put the agent of change principle into a statutory framework . I raise that in this House with the Minister in November . as well as be excited that the Secretary of State and Ed Sheeran have a chat last week , the Minister tell I that that chat involve talk about that precise issue . I have chase it up since , but I be still look for a timetable , so I hope the Minister can today provide more detail . it be not just music that be fantastic in Brighton and Hove . we have a huge number of artisan , artist , maker , designer , restorer and creative business too . they depend on an infrastructure of studio , workshop and gallery space to not only make their work , but to show it and sell it to Brighton Pavilion resident and visitor alike . those space be face threat , include the need for refurbishment . the amazing Phoenix Art Space need to refurbish . it be look for space to move into and expand into later , but it be really struggle to find it . New England House , the first ever high - rise industrial business centre , be a light industrial space that many maker use . it need urgent fire safety work . People be face either refurbishment over an incredibly long time or possibly move out in the meantime . we need the Government to support those kind of venue . my constituency be also pack full of inspire theatre , comedy , dance and cabaret , and people work as writer and in media production and digital creativity . many of those creative have write to I with their serious concern about the Government ' s consultation on AI and copyright . I be pleased that the hon . member for Perth and Kinross - shire ( Pete Wishart ) mention the Digital Economy Act . although not in this place , I be a campaigner on those issue at that time . in my last minute , I want to reflect very briefly on whether we as a society fail at that time , in those debate on digital impact on creativity and copyright , to look at copyright term — the amount of time for which copyright extend . it be very , very long , and we find now that copyright be be hold in many old work not by the original creator but by right holder . I write something for a national magazine which , ironically , be now behind a paywall , so I can not see exactly what I write , but I remember that I suggest that a copyright term of 10 or 20 year might be reasonable so that the young man who sit down and write " yesterday " yesterday be protect for a reasonable period . then we could start to build up public domain work and provide useful AI tool to train in way that do not rip off creator . if we have think about that early , there would probably be a simple answer to the knotty question with which minister be grapple today . I welcome the debate , and hope that we can continue to discuss this subject in the interesting way in which member have discuss it today — member who be genuine expert in their field , and genuinely creative as well . however , it worry I that we be face a bit of a watershed whereby today ' s creator will not be reward , and we may get the law very slightly wrong once again when we look at the interaction of the modern world with the old part of our civilisation that exist , which be art . I should begin by declare an interest : my constituency office be in the Queen ' s Hall community art centre , so I can not only speak about the impact of the creative economy locally , but recommend the cheese scone . represent , as I do , a large and sprawl rural constituency , I be frequently remind of the value of our creative economy — not just in the art club in place such as Corbridge and Haltwhistle or centre such as Allendale Forge Studios , but in the community facility that they provide and the community spirit that they foster , and in the event put on by organisation such as Throckley Community Hall . all those play a fundamental role in build up our local community and support our local creative economy , but they also support the wide economy . for instance , they support our local hospitality business . the Queen ' s hall host some of the large act at the Hexham book festival — the now Health Secretary , my right hon . friend the Member for Ilford North ( Wes Streeting ) , come to plug his own book during the last general election campaign , and go down very well on the doorstep of Elvaston — and such event provide a massive boost for our local shop and caf é s , as well as put town such as Hexham and the Tyne valley on the map . when I speak to young people in my constituency , they often say that they want to pursue a career in the creative economy . it concern I that what hold they back be not just a lack of access to a specialised education , but a lack of access to the infrastructure that would offer they some job opportunity . as we be come up to the watershed , I should say that the Tyne Valley line be often subject to some creative language from my constituent owe to the delay . I arrive late for this debate , and have not be sure that I would make it because of those delay . ensure that our constituent have access to job and education opportunity and experience should be at the heart of the Government ' s policy , and I urge the Minister , as he speak to colleague , to ensure that we look not just at the output of the creative economy but at the input , and at what those young people can get out of it . I be also privileged to represent some of the most stunning landscape in England , include Hadrian ' s Wall and the much - miss Sycamore Gap . at present , people will be hard press to visit a community art fair in Northumberland without picture of the Sycamore Gap be thrust at they from all corner . it be a tremendous loss , and I only hope that its frequent presence on screen , in documentary and other film , will lead to more tourist come to Northumberland and more investment in the creative art in our area . once " Vera " stop run , we shall need another series to step in and take its place . once when I be be interview , someone think that there have be a flash - forward episode in the market square , which scare I no end . as we consider what the creative economy can do for not just our urban centre but our more rural constituency , let I urge the Minister to consider the investment in infrastructure that could be fundamental to give young people access to the highly pay , high - skill job that they need . I have badger he about broadband connectivity before , in Westminster Hall , but those job do not necessarily have to be base in the urban centre ; they can be base in the Hexhams , the Riding Mills and the Stocksfields of the world . if there be one thing that I like to speak about in this place more than anything , it be the need for young people to be able to live where they grow up , should they wish to do so . it be a tremendous privilege to be the MP for where I grow up , but sadly on the street I be much more likely to bump into not those I grow up with , but their parent or grandparent . as I finish , I return to the community hall , community theatre , parish hall and church hall . those community asset be usually the place where I hold my surgery . they define our community , and they be the first to step up during major crisis and major event that require the community to come together . in a rural environment , the creative industry be not just an industry ; it be about the entirety of the community and what define Northumberland and the north - east . the creative industry undoubtedly make a significant contribution to our economy , but they be about much more than that . they make a broad and deep contribution to who we be , to our culture and to our nation . when it come to economic contribution , in Northern Ireland we have a thriving creative industry in a number of sphere . under the guidance of Northern Ireland Screen , which have as its honorary president the redoubtable Sir Kenneth Branagh , we have see significant success in the screen industry and many successful production , none more so than " Game of Thrones " . happily , quite a bit of it be film in my constituency of North Antrim , at the famous dark hedge — where , sadly , on Friday we lose four of the large tree in the storm — and at Ballintoy harbour , among other place . we be appreciative of that economic contribution , which do not end with the creative industry but create , in the very name I mention , an advantageous spin - off in tourism . many tourist come to North Antrim to see the dark hedge , and many tourist visit various filming location . we be happy to have have that benefit in Northern Ireland . of course , we also have the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , who be , in a manner of speaking , a creative industry in himself . there be no more creative Member of this House when it come to find an intervention in each and every debate . intervene — go on ! he be suddenly silent , thankfully . that be all very good , but the thrust of what I want to say relate to a niche sector of the creative industry : the craft sector as it apply in Northern Ireland . the sector be often make up of one - man or one - person operation , or those involve a couple of people , but cumulatively it be quite important . however , in Northern Ireland it have have a huge and debilitate problem in recent month . historically , it have , unsurprisingly , secure much of its raw material from Great Britain , but because Northern Ireland be leave behind in the EU single market , we be now subject to the general product safety regulation . under that regulation , there be inhibition on import of the raw material and good necessary for the craft industry , as well as other . big sector can more easily withstand that , but small sector can not . what be happen be that supplier in GB be simply stop supplying , because the bureaucracy of the GPSR be such that a business can not supply into the EU market — and therefore , sadly , into a part of the United Kingdom , namely Northern Ireland — unless it have a person live within that perceive EU territory who be its " responsible person " . a business in Great Britain that want to supply basic element into the craft sector or some other sector in Northern Ireland have to pay to have someone in place in Northern Ireland . More than that , among the other requirement of the GPSR , that seller from GB need to put label on every product with the contact information of the responsible person and the contact information of the manufacturer — this be all about the internal market of our own country — and the responsible person ' s name and contact detail , include their postal and electronic address , need to be display in online listing . with that burden on supplier , it be no surprise that , where the market for the product be small , they simply say , " it ' s not worth the effort . we will stop supply . " the loser in that be the Northern Ireland craft sector . it have get to the ridiculous stage where some online retailer , such as Folksy , advise seller that " the UK now exclude Northern Ireland " . that be a quote — the United Kingdom " now exclude Northern Ireland " . " Europe , " it say , " have become EU & Northern Ireland " . Amazon state on its seller website that " from December 13 , 2024 " — that be when the regulation come in — " responsible Person requirement will apply to most non - food consumer product offer for sale in the EU and Northern Ireland , under the … GPSR " , and it tell its GB seller that they must meet all the requirement I have just cite , include the label say who the responsible person be , how they can be contact , who the product come from , and so on . unsurprisingly , that be cripple the craft market in Northern Ireland . bizarrely , it have get to the point where we be tell that it include digital download . a lady call Alison Evans , who run Zanycraftsuk , have be tell that even digital download of knitting pattern be cover by the new regulation of the irish sea border . think of it : the EU single market be so fragile that it can not withstand the downloading of a knitting pattern from Doncaster to Downpatrick . how ridiculous be that ? yet that be where we be with these regulation . the Minister tell we that this Government would bulldoze barrier . well , here be a barrier for he to bulldoze with all his might , in protection of the craft sector and other sector in Northern Ireland . that take I to the AI controversy . [ interruption . ] I will be very quick . I share many of the concern , but I want to make this point clear to the House . the Government have say that they be go to be adventurous on AI , but not for Northern Ireland , because Northern Ireland be go to be subject to the EU ' s regulation of AI , which be much more restrictive . so once more , divergence be leave we behind and a separate regime be go to be the order of the day . that be another to barrier to bulldoze , Minister . here ' s to a vibrant performance art sector in every community across the UK . whether we be talk about school play , choir or theatre , in pub , nightclub or concert hall , the opportunity that they provide for enjoyment and life - enrich moment can not be underestimate , and they must be value and support . I will give some example of the success and challenge in my constituency of Bath , and they will be mirror in other town and city . I hope this debate will help to make the case for more Government funding of the perform art , a sector where more be need . the creative world be very diverse . many organisation have always exist entirely within the private sector . other be support locally by council funding or nationally by the Arts Council . patron and sponsor have always exist in this space , but for the last decade they have be expect to replace public funding almost entirely . in Bath , this have narrow the offer and put enormous strain on organiser to balance the book . the finance of far too many organisation have become hand to mouth . even in Bath , with its strong network of patron and supporter of the creative industry , the pressure to balance the book and keep the show on the road make for a long hard struggle . accord to the campaign for the Arts , DCMS core funding of art and cultural organisation have fall by 18 % since 2010 . equity ' s analysis show a 16 % real - term cut in funding by art council nationwide , and that be far compound by nearly £ 1 billion of cut to art and culture funding by local government across the UK . a decade ago , the big event in Bath receive core funding from the council and sometimes the Arts Council , but no more . what be the result ? mole , the famous performance space for emerge talent in the centre of Bath , have close , and despite the good effort of local campaigner and the new Music Venue Trust , it be unlikely to open again . the Bath Festival have amalgamate its musical and literary festival into one and try to de - risk its musical offer , but each year it get hard . the Mission theatre successfully turn its building into a community asset and hope to separate the finance of the building from all the experimental and small performance that take place in it , but each time the roof leak or a window need replace , it entirely depend on local donor . the Bath Philharmonia come to Parliament to highlight the work it do with young carer , but none of that could happen without long - term financial backing . these be just some example of the great effort make by the creative in Bath . some will come through , but other will not survive the retirement of one or two key people or the loss of core funding . how can trust and patron be expect to keep these event and community venue alive single - handedly with so little Government support ? the Secretary of State ' s recent announcement of £ 60 million for the creative industry be welcome , but it will do little to reverse the deep cut of the last two decade . more importantly , funding must not be provide on a piece - by - piece basis . I reiterate what the hon . member for Truro and Falmouth ( Jayne Kirkham ) say on this early . it should be devise as part of wide industrial strategy integrate with the reform of Arts Council England and a coherent and long - term growth strategy for regional art . the Resolution Foundation ' s state - of - the - nation report , " Ending Stagnation , " argue that the creative industry be a " rise british strength " that should form one part of " the bedrock for a growth strategy " . theatre , for example , make a significant contribution to local economy . for every £ 1 spend on theatre , another £ 1 . 40 be generate in the local economy . if the Government be focus on growth , the creative industry should be at the core of their strategy . I reiterate what my hon . friend the Member for Cheltenham ( Max Wilkinson ) have already say : the UK now spend only 0 . 2 % of gdp on art and culture , compare with a european average of 0 . 5 % . that put we among the low public expenditure on art and culture in Europe . I know my hon . friend have be to the cultural mecca of Taunton in Somerset , so will she credit the town council ? she talk about long - term funding , and Taunton town council be put £ 300 , 000 of funding into the art over three year , include for the amazing Gaumont project to restore the Mecca bingo hall as a theatre . I congratulate Taunton town council on put that money into the art . that be absolutely what be need , but many council struggle to balance the book and have to make very difficult decision . to deliver on the full potential of the UK ' s competitive advantage in the art and entertainment , additional public investment be require . we need to understand why we be so far behind the rest of Europe in term of funding and take urgent action to correct that . core funding be key to the resurgence of Bath ' s creative sector , and of creative industry across the country . I hope this new Government can turn the page on the constant cut to our creative industry and ensure that every community have a vibrant creative sector for all to enjoy . I call Jim Shannon . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I be expect to be tail - end Charlie again . the creative industry have many facet from practical to digital and , as I mention in my intervention on the Minister , Northern Ireland excel in all of they . the Minister kindly respond in a very positive fashion , realise that each region of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland contribute to the creative industry . my Strangford constituent be incredibly gifted , include those who carve the lion , the witch and the wardrobe into the trail at Rostrevor . the hon . member for Cheltenham ( Max Wilkinson ) mention his favourite film , " Paddington 2 " . well , Ards and North Down borough council have a statue of Paddington sit on a bench and eat a sandwich in Conway Square , Newtownards , and people come from all over the place to take photograph , include I with my grandchild . it have become one of the many tourist attraction in Strangford . it be a new one ; Paddington have be instrumental in that . from those encourage nature walk , family time and tourism to the home crafter who sell through Etsy — or should I say use to sell through Etsy — the insidious Northern Ireland protocol have curtail supply to the extent that many of these small creative worker be try to throw in the towel , but they can not even source the material to make the towel . the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim ( Jim Allister ) be right to make that point . I will not dwell on it , but I want to put it on the record . from those who upcycle defunct trombone into beautiful lamp to those who bake and sell their ware UK - wide through TikTok , the creative industry have the ability to thrive , yet it be be curtail . although I understand that this be not a debate on the damage do by the protocol , the protocol be intrinsically link to the creative industry in Northern Ireland . again , will the Minister please discuss this with the Cabinet and repeat the point raise by the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim , which I have also make to a less extent ? before the full extent of the postal implication of the protocol come into force , our creative industry in Northern Ireland be go from strength to strength . the creative industry employ over 5 % of the entire workforce and contribute nearly £ 1 billion of gross value add . the Department for Communities estimate that to be 29 , 000 job , or 3 . 4 % of total employment in Northern Ireland . this be not a niche sector . it be a real sector that deserve real support . the Minister should be greatly encourage — as I be , and we all should be — by each Member who have speak about the culture and creative industry in their constituency . when we add together the massive wealth of creative industry across each and every constituency , it augur well for the future . new and emergent technology be a fast - grow market , and incorporate they into the creation and delivery of art experience can open up valuable new way of generate income for art organisation and individual . Film NI and the promotion of film opportunity have grow massively , and we now see blockbuster film on our shore , which lift and encourage we all . the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim refer to the film sector , which be represent in my constituency as well . movie and screen production film in Northern Ireland directly boost the local economy by £ 330 million between 2018 and 2022 . that period include the covid year , which mean the potential be even great . the Minister refer to the comedy programme " Derry Girls " , which every one of we love . it do not matter if people be Unionists or nationalist ; humour be the same , whichever side it come from . I know my hon . friend the Member for East Londonderry ( Mr Campbell ) be particularly enthral by " Derry Girls " and he be of a very , very different tradition . I have focus on the great job that be be do within our creative industry , but the purpose of the debate be to ensure that we retain the facility and ability to produce . concern have be highlight to I that the talented people who make up our world - class creative industry , such as publishing , music and visual art , will have to go to great length to opt out of their work be use to train the AI model . we must set our mind to that issue . in response to early query , the Minister refer to how that will be do , so I be keen to hear from he just what that mean . it have be say that the system be hugely burdensome and unworkable , especially for small right holder . in company with few employee , the opt - out system will create new cost and administrative burden that will not be feasible for a great many in our creative sector . we can not lose that sector because of issue that could be stop and change . the propose exception would also jeopardise future potential growth in the UK ' s world - lead creative sector , disincentivise the creation of new work , and weaken the property right of creator and business of all size across the UK . we need truly to celebrate our creative industry . to do that , we must protect the current copyright framework — that be the big ask for the Minister , from I and many other . in conclusion — I be conscious of time — our creative industry , both practically and digitally , need protection . we must prioritise that enterprise when we be consider innovation , so I look to the Minister to do that . he be enthusiastic and want we to succeed , and I think we want to support he and help he to make that happen , so how can we protect and enhance this sector , which have so much potential ? I be pleased to have the opportunity to speak in the debate , not least because I spend many year work in publishing before I come to this place . I have the honour of serve on the Culture , Media and Sport Committee and I be a former ambassador for Xbox , which be possibly the only time my son think I be cool . recently , I visit Barton Peveril , a consistently successful local sixth - form college in my constituency , where many student have a keen interest in the creative industry . for all those student and the thousand of young people across the UK who want to pursue career in film , music , video game , tv , fashion , architecture , design and , of course , publishing , it be vital that those sector be support . yet over the past 14 year , there have be a 47 % drop in student take art - relate gcse and a 29 % decline at a - level . university be also slash creative course ; at least 14 institution be cut art funding or merge department . that be hugely concern . art education foster ingenuity , critical thinking and innovation , which be skill that benefit all industry . we must protect art education and funding . for those talented performer who want to share their work , Brexit red tape continue to make it unnecessarily difficult for performer and artist to tour in Europe . the complex visa and permit requirement stifle opportunity for british talent to showcase their work abroad , and independent musician be among those hard hit . touring have become increasingly hard because of the mountain of bureaucracy now involve . musician face navigate different visa rule for each EU country and financial burden that make tour unviable for many . I sincerely hope that will be address . as we have hear , AI pose a grow threat , and Sir Paul McCartney and Sir Elton John be right to have concern about that issue . while AI offer exciting opportunity , it must not come at the expense of our talent . recent report that the Guardian use AI to produce story during industrial action be concern . can the Minister outline what step the Government will take to ensure that AI serve and enhance the creative industry , rather than undermine they ? the Association for UK Interactive Entertainment have highlight the need for well support to ensure that the gaming industry , which be grow rapidly , can continue to thrive . sector - wide job loss and the rise of AI replace creative role be put studio under immense pressure . as a global leader in video game creation , it be vital that we protect this sector . to ensure that Britain remain a global leader in creativity , we need continue safeguarding of copyright , investment in art education , and more support for grassroots venue . we should be proud of our creative industry , so let we work together to ensure that they continue to be world class . I hope that the Government will provide the ambition , investment and vision need to ensure that the creative industry continue to thrive . I call the shadow Minister . it be a privilege to wind up the debate on behalf of his Majesty ' s Official Opposition . there have be impressive contribution from across the House , and many member have highlight how their constituency deliver for the UK ' s creative industry . we hear from the hon . member for Wimbledon ( Mr Kohler ) , who participate in a punk rock band — the last one to perform at The Roxy , he say , although I think the jury be out on that . we also hear from the hon . member for Bury North ( Mr Frith ) , who I believe perform at Glastonbury . I do not think he talk about that enough ; he should do so more in the future . my right hon . friend the Member for Maldon ( Sir John Whittingdale ) highlight the place that make he the man he be today . my hon . friend the Member for Isle of Wight East ( Joe Robertson ) secure a meeting for not just himself but his labour colleague , the hon . member for Isle of Wight West ( Mr Quigley ) — a great example of cross - party working . my hon . friend the Member for Bridgwater ( Sir Ashley Fox ) make a very serious point about the impact of the Budget on the creative industry . the Chair of the DCMS Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Gosport ( Dame Caroline Dinenage ) , give a tour of the power of the creative industry across the country . she be do an excellent job of hold the Government to account . as we have hear , the UK ' s creative sector be world - leading . they provide opportunity for young people up and down the country to gain employment and skill that can transform their life . I welcome the fact that so many member across the House recognise the potential of the creative industry to grow the economy . the UK ' s creative industry be truly formidable . in both cultural and economic term , they be absolute titan . in 2023 alone , it be estimate that the creative industry contribute around £ 124 billion to the UK economy — in other word , about 5 % of our overall economic output . there have be a steady rise in the value of the creative industry to the UK , from account for 4 . 7 % of economic output in 2010 to over 5 . 2 % in 2023 . it be important that we in this place recognise their grow importance in economic term . our creative industry be also immense in term of job . around 2 . 4 million people work in the sector , which total around 7 . 1 % of all UK job . although the creative industry be still quite heavily London - base , we see diversification of the sector and cluster of creative industry right across the UK , from the lead video game development hub in Stoke - on - Trent to the beat heart of Northern Ireland , where the creative industry sector employ 29 , 000 people . huge swathe of the UK benefit from our creative industry . I know that at first hand , as a west midland MP . the remarkable director Steven Knight , who create " Peaky Blinders " , run an incredible project in Birmingham where he recruit 20 % of people from the most deprived neighbourhood . steven ' s record show that we must continue to champion our creative industry sector , because it have real potential to drive social mobility and generate economic growth . as " Peaky Blinders " be a huge international success , our creative industry ensure that Brand Britain rule on the international stage . we can not measure the value and importance of our creative industry just in economic term , because their reach be impossible to estimate truly . government statistic show that between July and September 2023 there be 12 . 5 million visit to dcms - sponsor museum and gallery . give the Government ' s desire to ensure that 50 million people come to the UK each year , allow these cultural hub to thrive will bring more people to the UK to visit some of our great cultural attraction . as my right hon . friend the Member for Daventry ( Stuart Andrew ) set out , the Conservatives have a proud record of support the creative industry . between 2010 and 2022 , the creative industry grow at more than double the rate of UK gross value add , expand by over 50 % . during that period , over one million new job be create in the sector . rather than burden the creative industry with tax hike , we introduce over £ 1 billion of tax relief , include the UK independent film tax credit and business rate relief for theatre and cultural venue . as my right hon . friend the Member for Maldon set out , during the pandemic we introduce unprecedented support for the creative industry , include the £ 1 . 57 billion culture recovery fund , the £ 500 million film and tv production restart scheme and the £ 800 million live event reinsurance scheme . that support protect over 5 , 000 organisation and safeguard 220 , 000 job , ensure that our creative industry could bounce back and continue to offer opportunity for young people . as we have hear , our ambition do not end there . in government , the Conservatives publish a sector vision set out our plan to grow the creative industry by £ 50 billion and create one million new job . these be job for young designer , artist , writer , creative and other who want to bring joy , inspiration and opportunity to the life of other . in this debate , the Government claim to have similar aspiration for the creative industry and the young people eager to build career in they , but we know that be simply not true . Labour Members have speak warmly about the creative industry , their impact on the economy and the many opportunity that they bring to young people , but the Government ' s action speak louder than their word . the Government know that one in eight young people be not in education , employment or training , and that many lack the essential skill and confidence to progress in work . how do Labour rise to that challenge ? it scrap the National Citizen Service . the NCS , introduce by the previous Government , be design to support young people during a crucial time in their life , connect they to peer from many walk of life . it give they opportunity to build their skill and confidence , and empower they to make a difference in their community . have deliver over a million experience to young people , who take part in over 18 million hour of volunteering , the NCS make a real difference . do the Minister recognise that Labour ' s decision to scrap the NCS will mean that few young people take up the opportunity present by the creative sector ? UK Youth have warn that scrap the National Citizen Service and the youth investment fund , along with other cut , could lead to a net reduction in central Government funding for youth service in 2025 - 26 , possibly by ten of million of pound . that will inevitably hurt the creative sector . many Labour Members speak warmly about the creative sector , but their Government be do irreparable harm to its industry . the truth be that the Chancellor ' s Budget of broken promise raise taxis to the high level ever and introduce a national insurance job tax . labour slash retail , hospitality and leisure relief . there be nothing to protect the creative industry from the Deputy Prime Minister ' s radical Employment Rights Bill — a ill - thought - through piece of legislation that will bolster the power of the trade union and take the country back to the 1970 . the hon . Gentleman ' s point about the trade union be absolute nonsense , but that aside , he be first elect in 2019 . he be on record as publicly support former Prime Minister Liz Truss and , accord to Hansard , vote for the health and social care levy , which be a large increase in national insurance across a much broad spectrum . at no point do he raise concern about the creative industry then , so would he like to take this opportunity to apologise for that , or be this just naked political point scoring ? the hon . Member make an interesting point . I can see the Whip furiously make note : " give the man a job . " he be read that off the Whip ' s handout , and that be all I will say . our creative industry sector , and especially the young people within it , will pay the price of the Chancellor ' s growth - kill Budget and the Deputy Prime Minister ' s radical Employment Rights Bill . the Institute for Fiscal Studies have warn that Labour ' s national insurance job tax could lead to few opportunity . the sad truth be that under this Labour Government , many business in the creative sector will not survive . Don ' t just take it from I ; take it from Sir Nicholas Hytner , the former artistic director of the National Theatre , who warn that Labour ' s job tax will force business to close , or from UK Theatre , which warn that 40 % of venue could close in the next five year due to labour ' s autumn Budget . the inevitable truth be that this Labour Government be a threat to the entire creative industry sector . but it be not just the Government ' s rampant socialism that pose a huge threat to the creative industry . [ interruption . ] I be glad Government Members be cheer the demise of the creative sector ; people in they will be listen . alongside the catastrophic impact of labour ' s increase in national insurance , there be the Government ' s copyright and AI consultation , which be cause deep concern for the creative industry , but also for many Labour Members . the Minister ' s preference for a data mining opt - out for the creative industry will place extra burden on creator , who be rightly concerned that their work be under threat . my hon . friend the Member for Gosport ( Dame Caroline Dinenage ) and many other make a compelling argument about how damaging the Government ' s proposal be . give the magnitude of the potential change to copyright and AI , one would think that the Minister would have allocate significant time for creative industry sector to raise their view . instead , during the Christmas break , he roll out a consultation that finish just next month . he leave the creative industry scramble to raise their concern with a Government who refuse to listen . the Minister also work in the Department for Science , Innovation and Technology , so can he tell I why , as my hon . friend for Gosport mention , the Secretary of State for Science , Innovation and Technology have refuse to meet representative from the creative sector ? I have hear myself just how worried , angry and frustrate the creative industry sector be about this proposal . do the Minister have any idea about its impact ? have he consider have a full and transparent impact assessment to properly understand how the sector will be harm by these change ? my right hon . friend the Member for Maldon put forward some really important point and challenge , and I look forward to hear the answer to those . in our last exchange at the Dispatch Box , I ask the Secretary of State question about her national youth strategy , but my question remain unanswered . I hope that the Minister , in his closing statement , can address the serious concern we have raise about Labour ' s Budget of broken promise and its radical Employment Rights Bill , as well as the serious issue we have highlight around the Government ' s AI and copyright consultation . I repeat , slightly change , the question I ask Secretary of State at the Dispatch Box less than two week ago : can the Minister guarantee that the Chancellor , in a desperate attempt to save her job , will not balance the book by put the burden on the back of our creative industry sector ? when I ask the Secretary of State that question , she say that it be tired . well , I can tell the Minister that Conservative Members will not tire of stand up for our young people ; we will not tire of stand up for our creative sector ; and we will not tire of hold the Government to account . siri , show I an example of political hyperbole . Madam Deputy Speaker , I be terribly sorry , but it be I again — I be wind up the debate tonight . it be a really good debate , and it be go exceedingly well , as Mr Kipling would say , until the last few moment . give all the demonstration of talent that we have have from around the Chamber , I feel that we should put on a show . in fact , I gather that while we have be debate these issue , Mr Speaker have appear on television in the 10 , 000th episode of " Emmerdale " , so we be a talented House . as I think everybody have say , the creative industry have enormous economic importance . if any member have not yet see the " star GREAT Britain " campaign , which we launch in the last few day for our tourism , I really hope that they will google it and have a watch — but not during the debate , obviously . it be hilarious and very clever . it be all about try to get tourist , because somewhere between 60 % and 70 % of international visitor to this country want to see place where film and tv be make . as have be mention many time , the creative industry have massive social importance . they be about share experience , walk in other people ' s shoe , and have empathy for those with a different meaning of life . so many member refer to the personal importance of discover ourselves and discover confidence . several Members refer to young people who have never have the opportunity for of proper creative education , and who find it difficult to have confidence go into any line of work . we have also hear quite a lot about the interconnectedness of all the different aspect of the creative industry . I go to a play last night at the King ' s Head theatre in Islington call " Firebird " . it be base on a film that be base on a book . the Royal Shakespeare Company ' s new video game , Lili , be base on Shakespeare ' s play " Macbeth " . no film be make without costume , design , make - up , hair and all the rest of it , and no industry in this country would last without design or marketing . it be a simple fact that the creative industry be weave into every part of our british economy . if I might steal a moment from the hon . member for Caerfyrddin ( Ann Davies ) , she be quite right — the poem be a good one : " to be bear in Wales , not with a silver spoon in your mouth , but with music in your blood and with poetry in your soul , be a privilege indeed . " I sort of agree , but it should not be a privilege . song , poem , book , play , film and television story — all those thing be part of our birthright as british people . we should never sell that birthright for a mess of pottage , to quote the Old Testament . I say to my hon . friend the Member for Scarborough and Whitby ( Alison Hume ) that we should always be on the side of the human . rise — rise — I have two Liberal Democrats want to intervene . it be very difficult to decide between they . I will give way to the one who have not take part . shinfield studio , in the constituency of the hon . member for Earley and Woodley ( Yuan Yang ) , have create job for many people in my constituency of Wokingham and have be single out in the Financial Times as have high ambition for growth this year . it be use the UK ' s tax credit scheme for film and tv production , and it be a great domestic skill base . will the Minister visit Shinfield studio with I and the hon . member for Earley and Woodley , and have a conversation with the owner ? I have already have several conversation with the owner . it be a brilliant facility . as I say in my first speech today , we have a large number of studio . incidentally , I be delighted that we launch the Labour campaign for Earley and Woodley just outside those studio . that obviously bring we good luck . of course , I be happy to visit when time allow . I be not sure that I will be able to answer every single question that have be ask , but there be one subject that exercise quite a lot of member : access for all to the art and creative industry . will the Minister give way ? I be very tempt to . I thank the Minister for give way ; it be very gracious of he . many young farmer in Wales have tell I that they would love to watch the output of the UK creative sector , particularly on Netflix , but they can not . they be not able to download Netflix because their broadband be not good enough . what would the Minister advise they to do ? they should get in touch with the Telecoms Minister , but unfortunately he be rubbish . that be I . I be very happy to talk about the broadband issue in the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency at any point , and if he want a meeting with Building Digital UK , we can go through the specific area by area . I have offer that to as many member as I can . get back to the creative industry , my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Gareth Snell ) be channel his inner Frank Sinatra ; he basically say , " if we can make it here , we ' ll make it anywhere . " he make a very good point : we need to make sure that creativity be perceive not as something that we see only in the big city of this country , but as something that we need to exercise in every single part of the country . my hon . friend the Member for Barking ( Nesil Caliskan ) make a very similar point about her constituency . my hon . friend the Member for Leigh and Atherton ( Jo Platt ) make precisely that point — that creativity be not just about city , but town — as do my hon . friend the Member for Hexham ( Joe Morris ) . the hon . member for Guildford ( Z ö e Franklin ) say , " if only we could recruit from not just one demographic . " I feel that so strongly . perhaps the most famous actor from my constituency be Sir Stanley Baker from Ferndale , famous for " Zulu " , a film that every Welsh person have to watch about 52 time a year . bring people into the creative industry from every demographic be a really important part of what we need to do . will the Minister give way ? well , my speech be mean to be brief . I will give way as long as Madam Deputy Speaker do not complain later . I will be very brief , and I thank the Minister for give way to a rampant socialist . in the light of the comment from the Opposition Front - Bench spokesman , do the Minister agree that just like people in all other sector , the people who sell our programme , build our set and provide catering for our film set deserve regular hour , and not to face zero - hour contract that exploit they ? I completely agree . one of my colleague — I can not remember which — make a point about freelancer . one of the problem in the creative industry be that so many people today be freelancer , and it be very difficult for they to enjoy a regular income , take out a mortgage and so on . my mother be a make - up artist at the BBC in the 1950 — she look after Shirley Bassey ' s wig , among other thing — and in those day that be a full - time pay role , but hardly a single make - up artist be afford that today . my hon . friend the Member for Luton South and South Bedfordshire ( Rachel Hopkins ) make a point about the Hatters , but also about music and game in her constituency , and the importance of enable emerge artist to prosper . my hon . friend the Member for Hartlepool ( Mr Brash ) likewise make the point that we have to get beyond London and the south - east . that be sometimes a major issue in try to attract commercial money into the creative industry , on which we be very focused . my hon . friend the Member for Norwich North ( Alice Macdonald ) make a point about the importance of devolution , because we want to be able to make sure that this extend across the whole United Kingdom . the hon . member for Moray West , Nairn and Strathspey ( Graham Leadbitter ) make point — different cultural point — about book in scot and the Gaelic song sing by Runrig . it be hardly ever mention that the hon . member for Perth and Kinross - shire ( Pete Wishart ) use to play in Runrig . [ Laughter . ] another subject that be predominant in the debate be about creative education and skill . the hon . member for Bridgwater ( Sir Ashley Fox ) , who I think be in every debate I ever take part in , be absolutely right about the need to provide for great skill in film . that be one of the thing international company come to the UK for , because we have such great film skill . in the past , such people be often train by the BBC , but there be now very a different structure . the hon . member for Wimbledon ( Mr Kohler ) tell we about his musical past , but he clarify for we the difference between correlation and causation : I think the Roxy close on the day he sing there or play there , not because he play there . my hon . friend the Member for Truro and Falmouth ( Jayne Kirkham ) make a very important point about Falmouth School of Art , where Tacita Dean , among other , train . of course , be able to have those centre of excellence spread across the whole of the United Kingdom — whether down in Falmouth or in Margate in Thanet — be really important . in fact , my hon . friend the Member for East Thanet ( Ms Billington ) make the point about the next generation and the inequality of access to the art for many people . she also make a really important point about neurodivergent people . an interesting fact I come across when work with people in the jewellery industry be that more than 50 % of people who work in jewellery be neurodivergent , and that be enable by the Responsible Jewellery Council . the hon . member for Eastleigh ( Liz Jarvis ) make an important point about the drop in a - level and other exam . we need those skill not just for the art themselves , but for all other industry , because those skill be need by everybody . I will come back to the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim ( Jim Allister ) and the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , but I notice that they want to bulldoze barrier . the hon . and learn Member almost persuade I that Brexit be not a very good idea — I be probably not mean to have say that . on financial burden — a couple of Conservative Members mention the issue of national insurance contribution — I understand the political point that be be make . however , I would just point out that 50 % of business will pay less in national insurance contribution or the same under the new scheme . consider that most business in the creative sector be small than in the wide economy , that probably mean there be a high percentage in the creative industry . I do not want to diminish the concern of many in this sector , but I do want to get this right . I think my hon . friend the Member for Stirling and Strathallan ( Chris Kane ) refer to the problem of people not pay for content and , for that matter , not pay artist when they come and perform . how often be it that everybody say , " oh , we ' ll get a singer along — I ' m sure they ' ll do it for free " ? that be one of the thing we need to put an end to , because in the end it should be possible for people to be able to make a living properly in the creative industry . several Members refer to the issue of music venue , include the hon . member for Bath ( Wera Hobhouse ) , who also speak about financial backing in her own constituency , and the hon . member for Brighton Pavilion ( Si â n Berry ) , to whom I have to say that I be really not convince by the idea of curtail the period of copyright to 10 year . I think that would destroy the livelihood of thousand and thousand of people in the creative industry in the UK , but if she want to put it to the electorate , then good luck with that . I do not know how to refer to they — the Waldorf and Statler over there — but it be great that the hon . member for Gosport ( Dame Caroline Dinenage ) and the right hon . member for Maldon ( Sir John Whittingdale ) both talk about the Soft Power Council , and I be glad we have get that up and run . I would be interested to hear whether they have specific idea about what we should do . good point be make by several member about the British Council . I think it be an act of vandalism a few year ago when it be effectively cut into ribbon , and it be a job of work for we to put it back together . the hon . member for Gosport be right about the Creative Industries Independent Standards Authority . we be committed to that , and I do not think that work be yet complete . I praise Jen Smith and Baroness Helena Kennedy for the work they be do , and anything that we can do to help , we will . the hon . Lady be also right about british story . we want a mixed economy . we will talk about this more at the Select Committee tomorrow morning , but we want a mixed economy in film and for everybody to come and make their film here — american movie , korean movie , spanish movie , whatever — but we also want to make british story in Britain that reflect the Britian that we live in , keep some of that British IP in the UK so that the value remain here . the right hon . member for Maldon rightly refer to the cultural protection fund , which of course we be commit to . that be important , not least in relation to our work in Ukraine . many Members mention artificial intelligence , and I fully understand the level of concern , so let I say a few thing . first , intellectual property be central to the viability of the creative industry , both individual and the industry themselves . what be they sell , other than intellectual property ? secondly , many creative industry of course use AI — my hon . friend the Member for Bury North ( Mr Frith ) refer to this in his very good speech — include Paul McCartney in the last year . I do not for one minute suggest that the creative industry be luddite — people seem to think that I have say that , but I certainly have not and it be not what I believe . thirdly , good generative AI need good quality datum , and that mean license — pay for and get permission for good quality datum that be embody in creative intellectual property . Mike Gross of Data Conversion Laboratory have make that point , and he know his stuff . I suspect that in future the really good successful generative AI company will be one that go down that route . fourthly , we seek more licensing — in other word , more remuneration — great control of right , and legal clarity for all , and we be seek to achieve those three thing combine . as I say early , this be a genuine consultation . all of we be listen . I be do most of the meeting with the creative industry . I know my counterpart in the Department for Science , Innovation and Technology , the Under - Secretary of State for Science , Innovation and Technology ( Feryal Clark ) be do lot of meeting with the creative industry and people in AI , but most meeting with the creative industry be my job . do nothing be not an option for we , as that would simply mean that we would have to wait for the court to do their work . in truth , several court case be already go on . some of they have come to mutually contradictory view in different jurisdiction , and they do not necessarily provide the clarity of precedent that we might want . it be surely wrong that the only people who can enforce their right be those with the deep pocket who can afford to go through long , protract and expensive court case . I do not think do nothing be an option . I be very much in the business of listen to what people think we should do . I have hear quite a lot of the thing that people think we should not do , but I would love to hear thing that people think we should do . quite a lot of people from the creative industry have knock on my door . we have have meeting . indeed , we have have very open meeting , and people have express their concern . they have express support for some element , include some that have not even be mention in this debate . I be determined to keep on listen to the debate , and to try to find a solution that deliver for the creative industry and for artificial intelligence . it can not be beyond the wit of humanity to be able to deliver that . it be encouraging that there be real positivity to the Minister ' s comment , and I understand that he be try his hard to resolve a tricky question . he have hear the creative industry , and he know that this idea of an opt - out do not work for they . it be all good tell we what we be not support and what we would support , but what do he support ? if the opt - out be not go to happen , what would he do ? I support secure more licensing , great control of right and legal clarity for all . the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right . as I say to the right hon . member for Maldon , there be not a version of right reservation that work at the moment and be simple and easy . as an author , I know that if someone want to register for the public lending right , they have to go online and register each of their work . that be relatively simple and straightforward for someone who write book , because they have only two or three or four . for a photographer , it be a completely different business . we have to come to a technical answer that work for everybody . if there be not a technical answer , we will have to think again . that be the sum total of where we be at . everybody have support the transparency measure that have be refer to . it might be that member would also want to support some of the right to a personality that have be exercise in some part of the United States and other part of Europe that have not be refer to . I be sure everybody want I to stop by now . the hon . member for Gosport refer to several song that she think I should adopt as my motto . I think one be " respect " . I be not sure whether she mean Aretha Franklin ' s " r - e - S - p - E - C - T " , or erasure ' s " a Little respect " , which I prefer : I try to discover a little something to make I sweet . I be not sure which of those two she prefer , but I think I will rely on Depeche Mode in the end . when it come to the creative industry , I just can ' t get enough . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider the creative industry . business without Debate Procedure Ordered , that Frank McNally be discharge from the Procedure Committee and David Baines be add . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) work and Pensions Ordered , that Ben Obese - Jecty be a member of the Work and Pensions Committee . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Petition - Intensive Poultry Units I be honour to have be ask to present this petition on behalf of more than 30 , 000 supporter of the Soil Association who be deeply concerned about the impact of intensive poultry production on river pollution . this issue be of particular concern to resident in my constituency of North Herefordshire , where the River Wye and its tributary , such as the River Lugg , be deeply impact by phosphate pollution , with troubling effect on wildlife and the wide economy . indeed , the concern prompt I to establish the all - party parliamentary group on water pollution , of which I be co - chair . the 30 , 543 petitioner " therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to introduce a ban on new intensive poultry unit , to support farmer to exit this industry and to take action to reduce chicken consumption to more sustainable level . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the United Kingdom , declare that industrial chicken farming produce huge volume of pollute chicken manure which , when spread as fertiliser on nearby field , can cause phosphate from the manure to leech into river , cause algal bloom which starve the river of oxygen ; far that the River Wye be close to complete ecological collapse , with damaging pollution from industrial chicken farming as a lead cause ; note that the Environment Agency report ' unacceptable level ' of phosphate in over half of english river ; and far that other river across the United Kingdom be also at serious risk from an increase in intensive poultry unit ; and further note that a similar online petition by the Soil Association receive over 30 , 000 signature . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to introduce a ban on new intensive poultry unit , to support farmer to exit this industry and to take action to reduce chicken consumption to more sustainable level . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p003035 ] a & E Services : Solihull Borough Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Martin McCluskey . ) I stand today to make the case for accident and emergency service in Solihull borough . ever since I be first elect in 2019 , through covid to now in 2025 , I have campaign for well health resource in my constituency and across Solihull borough . like many across the country , I be grateful for the national health service . indeed , I owe my life to the NHS , have fall seriously ill as a child at the age of three . it be an NHS doctor who save my life after my parent have be tell I have mere hour to live , and it be NHS nurse who care for I . when my child be bear , NHS nurse deliver they and NHS doctor care for they and for my wife . like many of my constituent , I be ever grateful for the NHS staff who be on the frontline during the pandemic , in the most difficult circumstance that one can imagine . I be proud to stand up for the NHS in my constituency . I have be fortunate to have campaign for a number of successful outcome in the borough of Solihull , where we have a positive story to tell . I support the introduction of integrate care system in the Health and Care Act 2022 . as I say to the then Health Secretary , it be clear to I that we need an organisation that would be more accountable to the public . the Birmingham and Solihull integrate care board be bear as a result of that legislation . the Solihull Conservatives lead a campaign to get a new urgent treatment centre , and our petition garner more than 11 , 000 signature . I be pleased that the utc at Solihull hospital be open in 2023 . it have be vital in ease pressure on local service and for local resident , and I have use it for myself and my family . we also have new elective surgery unit , build with start - of - the - art robotic . I be delighted that just a few week ago , they reach their 1 , 000th operation . on top of that , the brand - new locality hub at Solihull hospital aim to provide early intervention and urgent response care for patient in the borough , and it will be vital in provide much - need relief for local service . alongside that , the brand - new community diagnostic centre that I secure for north Solihull be currently be build . I have the pleasure of visit the new facility , which be forecast to deliver almost 116 , 000 diagnostic appointment , include mri , ultrasound and much more . as the Minister will see , we have a strong track record of deliver health service for our constituent in the borough of Solihull . however , one thing be lack . it be clear when I talk to local resident that Solihull borough need accident and emergency service . Solihull hospital use to have an A & e , but it close in 2013 . a recent write - up of my campaign by the Solihull Observer correctly identify that , state : " historically Solihull do have an A & E department but in 2013 hospital boss admit there have not be a full and proper a & e at Solihull for many year – with A & E service dwindle bit by bit over two decade . " the Minister will note that thing have seriously change . first of all , Solihull hospital be thrive . I be pleased that there have be a collective recognition that it must be nurture and preserve . Silhillians who be in need of medical treatment for broken bone , sprain , cut , stomach pain , rash and minor burn can always book an appointment at the urgent treatment centre that I just mention at the Lode Lane hospital , but for anything more serious , resident be redirect to Heartlands hospital in Bordesley Green . I congratulate the hon . member on secure this debate . I draw attention to my entry in the Register of Member ' s Financial Interests , give my background in the GMB trade union , which represent ambulance worker in the West Midlands ambulance service . do he agree that during the difficult winter period , ambulance staff endure an extremely difficult time , and we should all pay tribute to their professionalism ? do he far agree with ambulance crew that if we have more community - base health service , pressure on those central accident and emergency centre would be reduce ? the hon . Member make an important point . every winter we see the strain on our health service . our professional in hospital and ambulance service always make an important contribution . his second question be really for the Government . I will talk a little more about the future vision for my constituent and his . I commend the hon . member on secure this debate , and I share his concern . in my constituency and the neighbour one , unit in North Down and Ards be close and move to Dundonald , put pressure on that hospital . at the A & e at Dundonald — perhaps Solihull be the same — patient have to wait 14 hour to be see for a heart attack . the A & E must be up to scratch . travel be one thing , but the A & E have to be able to respond . do he agree that we need the right A & Es ? I can not disagree with the hon . gentleman . he make a really valid point . of course , it be about not just the travel time , but the time that be spend there . as I will come on to say , there be discussion about the A & e at Heartlands hospital , which have similar issue . on the point about time spend wait in A & E , one issue we have find in Winchester be that a significant proportion of the caseload consist of people with mental health issue — sometimes suffer a mental health crisis . many of they be already on a waiting list , but some mental health waiting list be hit 18 month or two year from the point of referral to the necessary specialist treatment . that be put a huge amount of pressure on our A & E department , as it take a huge amount of resource to deal with mental health crisis . do the hon . Gentleman agree that invest heavily in mental health service will also help to reduce A & E waiting time ? of course , investment will make a big difference . that be why I think integrate care board play an important role , because there be accountability all the way up to the Minister . it be also about how resource be distribute locally for the need of the community . I speak about the journey to Heartlands hospital . at any give time , it can take 40 minute , and it quite regularly take more than an hour . in a situation where every minute matter , I be afraid that be just not good enough for my constituent . it could quite literally be a matter of life or death . solihull borough have a population of approximately 216 , 000 people , and that be set only to grow . I be grateful to my hon . friend for give way and for bring this debate to the Chamber . be neighbour mp , he and I have work very closely on this issue . he note the size of Solihull borough ; of course , with the Government ' s housing plan , that be likely to increase significantly , almost touch a quarter of a million . do he agree that in those circumstance , it be absolutely critical that we have an A & E provision within the borough to serve the community ? I thank my hon . friend for that contribution and for all the work he have do on the matter , include the petition he launch , which I will come on to later . he be absolutely right , and he lead I to my next point . the Minister ' s own Government have set out their planning reform , which mean that valuable and precious green belt will now be build on as housing number be massively increase , put our local infrastructure under strain . as we can see , that be a concern across the country , on a cross - party basis . my hon . friend the Member for Solihull West and Shirley ( Dr Shastri - Hurst ) have make significant progress talk to his constituent on this issue . I know they feel exactly the same way , and I look forward to work with he . significantly , more than 40 % of our resident be reportedly over the age of 50 . as we go through this especially cold winter , as the hon . member for Birmingham Northfield ( Laurence Turner ) say , we must all remember that the winter be a challenging time not only for the NHS , but for our constituent . cold and flu case be at their peak and place additional pressure on the NHS . every Christmas , we face a timely reminder that we be in desperate need of an A & E in Solihull , so I be grateful to have secure this debate early in the new year . although I will not focus on social care today , I can assure the Minister that I will return to this topic at some point . I simply make the point that kick the can down the road on issue such as social care will cause further anxiety to my constituent and exacerbate the strain on our hospital . all government , of all ilk , need to deal with social care . the Government ' s response do not deal with social care , nor do it deal with the problem of the country ' s age population , especially in area such as Meriden and Solihull East . the long - term social care issue face by our NHS be make far bad by the fact that there be a national average of 14 % more attendee at A & E than there be 10 year ago , which mean that more people now face long wait time . as of August 2024 , 65 . 4 % of patient in Birmingham and Solihull ICB spend less than four hour in A & E department , and that be markedly below the NHS target of 95 % . I hope that the Minister might be able to comment on that and share any thinking on increase that figure . I believe I have already set this out adequately , but it be worth repeat that resident in my borough have to travel to different area to access A & E service . give the size of the local population and the likelihood that demand for emergency service will only increase far , it be obvious that Solihull resident need to be support by dedicated A & E service . that be because a dedicated A & E in Solihull borough will take pressure off other A & E department , lower wait time across the whole area to the benefit of thousand of people in the west midland . can the Minister give any indication as to whether she consider those argument in the previous correspondence that my hon . friend the Member for Solihull West and Shirley and I have have with she ? moreover , my constituent and I be very concerned that this issue will become increasingly press because of the Government ' s planning change and their potential change to the national policy planning framework . if the Government be to achieve the objective of remove consent from local people , the demand for local infrastructure — from school to road and health service — would go up and inevitably become unsustainable . I launch my petition in May last year to restore a & E service to solihull hospital . I can confirm to the Minister that I do not know a general election would be call a week later . within a week , we have about 1 , 000 signature . I have have about 1 , 600 and I think my hon . friend have have a similar amount , so we be reach more than 3 , 000 resident who support our campaign . the petition remain open on our website for further support . I assure my constituent that I will not falter or waver in my resolve to see the campaign through . let I help the Minister . I understand that such project do not happen overnight , but surely she will agree that a case such as this must be look at . there have to be a long - term vision and plan to start to deal with issue , such as an increase population , which be clearly come down the road . when my hon . friend and I write to the Minister in November , we outline the argument for enhanced healthcare provision for Solihull borough . we be disappoint with the Minister ' s response , which fail to cover some of the assertion we make , and that be why I put in for an Adjournment debate . I want to give the Minister another chance , because it can not be possible that she do not have a view on long - term health provision for my constituent . for clarity , the Minister argue that the NHS Birmingham and Solihull ICB be responsible for funding and implementation in the area . I be sure that be a matter of fact , but she must have a view , even though it will play a decisive role in decision making on these matter . it would be really helpful to my constituent and those of my hon . friend if she agree , at least in principle , to look at our plan , even if she do not quite support they . will she agree to look at the long - term need of my constituent , especially in the light of the extra housing the Government be demand be deliver on our greenbelt ? it be a point worth make that as a result of the extra building , my constituent will be make huge sacrifice . the least the Government could do be to recognise that and provide the infrastructure to match . the Minister confirm that the Government be commit to deliver the new hospital plan . she say the Chancellor have confirm that in the Budget there would be a £ 3 . 1 billion increase in the overall departmental capital budget over this year and the next . the Secretary of State commit , in his piece in the London Standard in June , to deliver the new hospital programme , so I be disappoint that there be no mention of Solihull borough in his statement last week . I want to ask the Minister a very simple question . the Government set out plan that take hospital building to 2039 . do that mean that our constituent in Solihull borough will not get a look - in from the Labour Government until then ? will it be 15 year before we can even start to think about new plan to support Solihull borough ? it would be really helpful to get clarity on that . in our correspondence , my hon . friend and I make the case for part of the £ 3 . 1 billion uplift in the NHS capital budget to be spend in our area . the Minister should be assure that we will take every opportunity in this House to make the case for an A & E in Solihull . will she now instruct her official to take a long , hard look at that and take a constructive view on the long - term plan ? indeed , just a few day ago — this be the point I want to come to when I be intervene on — it be report in the Birmingham Mail that the University Hospitals Birmingham NHS Foundation Trust be look for a £ 200 million investment to create a new urgent and emergency care facility at Heartlands hospital , because the facility be " disconnected and inefficient " , and that " patient number continue to increase , be care for in building which be dark , cramp and not fit for the current purpose " . that could not be clear . the report prompt the question : why should my constituent be subject to those condition ? they deserve well . they deserve the very good health facility . I will not let up , and nor will my hon . friend . we will keep come back . with more than 3 , 000 people have sign our petition , will the Minister do the right thing and back our campaign for a new A & E in Solihull ? when I raise this issue on the Floor of the House , the Health Secretary want to know where I would spend the money differently . perhaps the Minister have a similar line in her speech . this be not a party political point , but we would have choose not to spend billion on trade union sweetheart deal in return for nothing . we would probably not have spend billion on GB Energy , which will not deliver outcome or reduce bill . that money could pay for an A & E in Solihull many time over . politic be all about choice , so I ask the Minister : will she do the right thing and choose to engage constructively , so we can deliver the good outcome for our constituent ? motion lapse ( Standing Order no . 9 ( 3 ) ) . motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Martin McCluskey ) . I congratulate the hon . member for Meriden and Solihull East ( Saqib Bhatti ) on secure the debate , and congratulate other member who have take part in it . let I start by thank the NHS staff at Solihull Hospital for their remarkable effort , stamina and care in the most challenging circumstance . that point be well make by the hon . Gentleman , and I know he feel passionately that he owe his own life and the life of many other to their care . the hon . Gentleman say that he do not want to make political point and that politic be about choice , but we do inherit an NHS that be in the bad state in its history . I hope he agree with Lord Darzi ' s diagnosis ; we have still not hear from his colleague whether they agree with it . the condition of the capital estate , as well as NHS service , have shock the country , notwithstanding the result of the election , but we be work at full scale to make that situation well . the hon . Gentleman be right that politics be about choice , and I think that the wrong choice be make in the past 14 year . it be right to point to the increase demand for emergency department in Solihull and elsewhere over the past decade , part of which can be explain by the appalling neglect of GP and primary care service to manage demand , and the failure of all party — to which the hon . Gentleman allude — to build consensus on a long - term solution for social care and support the flow of people through those hospital . as the hon . Gentleman know , Solihull Borough be within the University Hospitals Birmingham NHS Foundation Trust . in December , 58 . 2 % of people be see within four hour . let I set out some of the wide context . we need to remember that we have have one of the busy flu season for a number of year , and although the number of case be come down , the number of Norovirus case be still 80 % high than it be in the same period last year . we want to end the treatment of people in corridor , which have become normal and which it be completely unacceptable . as my right hon . friend the Secretary of State have make clear , this be not the level of care that staff want for their patient , and it be not the level of care that the Government will ever accept for patient . it will take time to return to the standard that patient deserve , but it can be do . we do it before in government , and we will do it again . to mitigate pressure in Solihull and elsewhere , we be reform the NHS to shift the focus of healthcare out of hospital and into the community , free up bed for emergency patient and prevent so many people from have to call an ambulance or go to A & E in the first place . in the last two month , we have announce step to begin rebuild general practice and immediate long - term action on social care . I understand that in November 2024 , NHS Birmingham Solihull integrate care board have an average of 6 . 3 full - time GPs per 10 , 000 patient , just above the average in England , which stand at six . a few week after the election , we announce an extra £ 82 million of funding to increase access to GPs , and it be improve . Birmingham Solihull ICB area have 30 more gps in November than in July , and I hope that that improvement have be feel by the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent . in December we announce an extra £ 888 million in funding for GPs , the big funding uplift in year , alongside a package of reform to bust bureaucracy , slash unnecessary target , and give they more time to spend with patient as a first step towards bring back the family doctor . as well as consider demand , we know that there be no solution for accident and emergency activity that do not include fix our break social care system . today there be about 12 , 000 patient in hospital bed who have no criterion to reside but can not be discharge . the main reason for the delay be to do with capacity . More than 300 patient in that category be in the Birmingham Solihull ICB . I hope that the hon . Gentleman and , indeed , all member will work with we to resolve the situation , but that be why the Government be make up to £ 3 . 7 billion of extra funding available for local authority to provide social care , why we be deliver extra 7 , 800 adaptation through the disabled facility grant this year and next year , why we have deliver the big increase in carer ' s allowance since the 1970 — worth an extra £ 2 , 300 to family carer — why we be introduce fair pay agreement to tackle the 131 , 000 vacancy for care worker that we inherit , and why we be appoint Louise Casey to develop a national consensus on that long - term solution for social care . it be also clear that we can get our ambulance and A & E service work well , so before the spring we will set out the lesson learn from this winter and the improvement that we will put in place ahead of next winter . we be content to visit and hear from hon . member from across the House about the situation in their area . the hon . Gentleman talk about the 2022 Act . I be on the Bill Committee and table a number of suggestion for well accountability of icb to local Members of Parliament , most of which be not accept by the Government of the time . I agree with he that those organisation need to be more accountable to he and to other Members of Parliament represent their constituent . we expect integrate care board to ensure that the area they run be safe , put necessary care in the community , invest in technology and do what be good for the people they be responsible for . the Government be invest an extra £ 26 billion in our health and care service while undertake fundamental reform to help the ICB deliver the service that all our constituent expect . if the ICB intend to make substantial change to the way it deliver service , it must conduct a public consultation and must meet the test to ensure that all proposal be prove to be in the interest of patient and the wide public . I know that the hon . Gentleman will be meet the ICB in a few week , and I be sure that he will continue to make his point to it ; I suspect that it be watch or listen to our proceeding . I be sure that he would agree that it be for the people locally in Solihull to determine how their interest be well serve . minister can not impose view above the head of the local ICB . those decision be well make in Solihull by people who live in Solihull and not in Westminster . therefore , what I can do — what the Government be do — be give icb the mean to deliver service while undertake fundamental reform of how those service be deliver . the hon . Gentleman be therefore do exactly what he should do as an experienced Member of Parliament and make his case to the local ICB . I be sure that it will have hear he this evening and that his voice will be important in represent his constituent . the hon . Gentleman be entirely right to raise population growth and planning , which be also mention by the hon . Gentleman ' s neighbour , the hon . member for Solihull West and Shirley ( Dr Shastri - Hurst ) . we be commit to house building , unlike his government ; it be important that that go ahead . that do put pressure on service . unfortunately , under the previous Government , development be not go ahead because of the issue of infrastructure . that be something that we be address . the disconnect between icb and local authority must change — the situation with vital infrastructure such as school and hospital have go on for far too long — which be why we be commit to work with colleague at the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government to ensure that planning include basic infrastructure . the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care have regular meeting with the Deputy Prime Minister to ensure that we be all pull in the same direction on that . community across the country , include the hon . gentleman ' s constituent in Solihull , be struggle with poor service and crumble estate . we be put record capital funding into the NHS while reform service to ensure that every penny of that money be spend well . we will return to 95 % of patient be see within four hour at A & E , we will get waiting list back down to where they be in 2010 , and we will fix the front door to the NHS with the GP service that all our constituent deserve . it will take time , but we will deliver an NHS and national care service that provide people with the care they need when they need it , and we will continue to work with all hon . member across the House to ensure that that happen . House adjourn .