Oral Answers to Questions Work and Pensions the Secretary of State be ask — Welfare Fraud : organise Crime what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to tackle fraud in the welfare system by organise criminal group . the Department work collaboratively across government and law enforcement agency to investigate welfare fraud perpetrate by organise criminal gang . this type of criminality be complex and far - reach , and a collaborative approach be therefore essential . I be pleased to confirm that new power in the Public Authorities ( Fraud , Error and Recovery ) Bill will help we well tackle organise crime by take great control of our investigation through new power of entry , search and seizure . have spend my career before enter this place tackle fraud , I recognise the scale of the challenge , so I commend the Secretary of State for her leadership , with the big ever crackdown on benefit fraud . give the success of whistleblow reward scheme in tax and financial crime , do my hon . friend agree with I that there be merit in explore similar scheme to uncover organise fraud in the benefit system , so that more fund can be recover to support those who genuinely need support : our constituent ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this issue . we take all allegation of fraud seriously . People who suspect fraud against the Department for Work and Pensions can use exist channel to report it , include the national benefit fraud hotline . this Government be not complacent . as I mention in my substantive reply , we be take action with the Public Authorities ( Fraud , Error and Recovery ) Bill , which will provide a range of new power to address fraud and error in the social security system , after the conservative party fail to substantively update our power to tackle ever - more complex fraud during 14 long year in office . however , I will watch with interest whether there be learn from the scheme my hon . friend mention that could be apply to case of benefit fraud . organised gang operate in many sphere — sex , drug and , as report in the medium , our welfare system . this totally undermine public confidence in the system . will the Minister make representation to the Home Secretary to ensure that foreign national who be find to have abuse our welfare system be remove from the country ? I be very happy to raise with the Home Office the issue that the hon . Gentleman have highlight , but I would say to he , and indeed to his colleague on the Opposition Front Bench , that what genuinely undermine confidence in the welfare system be the record of the previous Government , who allow welfare fraud to spiral towards £ 10 billion a year and fail to take the power need , as we be do now , to get that number down . child Poverty what step she be take to reduce the number of child in poverty in the Livingston constituency . what step she be take to reduce the number of child in poverty in Gloucester . if I may briefly say so , I be very proud that the spending review deliver the large ever investment in employment support for sick and disabled people — quadruple what we inherit from the last government to over £ 1 billion a year , or a total of £ 3 . 5 billion over this Parliament — so that those who can work get the support they need , while we protect those who can never work . tackle child poverty be my personal priority , so I be proud that the Education Secretary and I be bring in free school meal for all child in family on universal credit , lift 100 , 000 child out of poverty — a down payment on our child poverty strategy . we be also deliver the first ever three - year funding settlement for the household support fund , include for holiday hunger , and we be commit to fund the holiday activity and food programme , stop kid go hungry while they be at school and during the holiday , too . I thank the Secretary of State for that response . one of the good way of reduce child poverty be help parent into good , stable and well - pay job , which the SNP Scottish Government be fail abjectly to do . for example , the SNP manifesto in 2021 promise to double investment in the paternal employment fund to £ 15 million over two year to help low - income family get into work . however , in 2023 that pledge be scrap . will the Secretary of State call on the Scottish Government to put some of their record funding into employability fund , to help my Livingston constituent get into work and to provide good job right across Scotland ? I could not agree more with my hon . friend . economic inactivity be high in Scotland than in the UK as a whole , and a staggering one in six young scot be not in education , employment or training . we have deliver an extra £ 9 billion for Scotland over the spending review — the big settlement in the history of devolution — and I hope the SNP will match our ambition to get people who can work into work by invest in employment service , not cut they , as they have in recent year . the expansion of free school meal will massively help family in my constituency of Gloucester and take they out of poverty . can the Secretary of State confirm how many more family in Gloucester will be eligible for free school meal under the Government ' s expansion , and what step be she take with the Secretary of State for Education to ensure that every child be able to access that support ? this vital step will benefit 7 , 560 child in my hon . friend ' s constituency . it come on top of roll out free breakfast club , start with Calton and Grange primary school in his constituency , our new fair repayment rate in universal credit , and the first ever permanent , above - inflation increase in the standard allowance of universal credit , a vital part of our welfare reform , put more money into the pocket of hard - work family and help to give all child the good start in life . at the lobby last week by the food bank , a number of people express the wish to have great facility to educate their client with respect to shop and prepare meal more effectively . they make a fair point , don ' t they ? as the former chair of Feeding Leicester , I know that many of our food bank offer a range of support , help to signpost people to mental health treatment , debt advice and other measure to improve their wellbeing . they certainly do not need any advice from Conservative Members . under their watch , we see 900 , 000 more child and 200 , 000 more pensioner in poverty . it be time they take a lesson from this side of the House to get this issue right . probably the large single driver of child poverty in my community be the enormous cost of housing . the average house price in my community be up to 13 time average household income . that drive grind poverty , particularly among child . will the Secretary of State have a word with her right hon . and hon . friend in the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government to ensure that a disproportionate amount of housing grant go to rural community such as mine , in particular with the Windermere Gateway scheme ? reduce housing cost be one of the key thing we be look at in the child poverty taskforce in advance of our strategy , which we will publish in the autumn . we be invest an additional £ 39 billion in build more social , affordable and other home , but I will , of course , always raise all issue relate to housing , because kid deserve to live in good home that be affordable . that be what this Government intend to achieve . as be the case for my hon . friend the Members for Livingston ( Gregor Poynton ) and for Gloucester ( Alex McIntyre ) , a number of my constituent be affect by the two - child cap , with the late statistic show that 330 household in my constituency be impact . I absolutely agree with a number of charity that remove the cap alone be not a silver bullet to tackle child poverty , but it will make a difference . can my right hon . friend confirm whether the child poverty taskforce be consider the removal of the two - child cap ? I thank my hon . friend for her important question . I can absolutely confirm that the child poverty strategy will be look at all the lever we need to tackle this really important issue , include in relation to social security . she be impatient for change for her constituent , as be I . we have already put in place a fair repayment rate for universal credit , we be increase the standard allowance for universal credit for the first time in its history , and we be roll out free school meal , but I will of course take her representation forward and ensure that they be hear by the taskforce . when the Government ' s own impact assessment for the " pathway to work " Green Paper suggest that 50 , 000 child will be plunge into poverty and business be already slash vacancy in the light of the Employment Rights Bill , do the Secretary of State really believe that the Government ' s child poverty taskforce be push in the same direction as the rest of the Government ? the hon . Gentleman will know that that assessment do not take into account all the step that we be take to get more sick and disabled people into work , with the big ever investment into support — support that be deny to they by Conservative Members , who write people off , consign they to a life on benefit and then blame they . we take a different approach . we believe that sick and disabled people should have the same right , chance and choice to work as anybody else . that will be a key measure in tackle poverty . unemployment Levels what assessment she have make of the potential implication for her policy of recent trend in the level of unemployment . what assessment she have make of the potential implication for her policy of recent trend in the level of unemployment . we all know the importance of work , and since the election we have see employment rise by 500 , 000 , but Britain be a country that have too few young adult in work or education , and where the post - pandemic employment recovery have take too long . that be why we will continue our reform to support more people into work . to cut spending and balance the book , Labour have to get people off welfare , but the Chancellor ' s job tax and the Deputy Prime Minister ' s unemployment Bill mean that there be few job for they to go to . some 285 more of my constituent be out of work than last year , and since the Budget a quarter of a million job have vanish . a rise in public sector role in the same period be probably mask a far deep crisis go on in the private sector . there be no joined - up thinking . have the Secretary of State warn her Cabinet colleague that their policy be make her job impossible ? the Secretary of State inherit a labour market that be a mess under the Conservatives , with nearly 1 million young people not in education or training , and 2 . 8 million too sick to work . employment be up by 500 , 000 . economic inactivity — [ interruption . ] conservative member might not like to hear it , but economic inactivity be down by 300 , 000 under this Government . no one on the Government Benches will take lecture on a good labour market from the Conservatives . unemployment be now 115 , 000 high than when Labour take office . the Chancellor ' s new job tax and the Employment Rights Bill make hire a new person more expensive . the family farm and family business taxis be reduce investment . can the Minister therefore explain how he will reduce unemployment while the Chancellor be pursue policy that increase it ? I do not want to try the patience of the House but , as I have say , employment be up by 500 , 000 under this government . [ interruption . ] conservative member do not like to talk about that . the hon . Gentleman mention what british business want — what british business want be a Government who be actually fix the public finance and the public service that mean that when a member of staff get sick , they do not sit on a waiting list for year , as they do under the previous Government . the Conservatives like to attack the Employment Rights Bill , but stop good employer be undercut by bad be the pro - business thing to do . Paisley jobcentre run a " take a job to work " day , where work coach look for local employment opportunity and take those suggestion into the jobcentre to match jobseeker with local job . do my hon . friend agree that that be a good example of local innovation in jobcentre , and would the Government consider share that good practice across the rest of the country ? I thank everyone in Paisley who have be work on those practice — it be exactly the kind of innovation we like to see . under the Conservatives , only one in six employer say they bother to engage with their local jobcentre , which be exactly what we need to change with our reform to Jobcentre Plus . I thank everyone in Paisley , but there be much more to do right across the UK . the previous Government leave we with one in eight young people out of work , training or education , and with 2 . 8 million people out of work due to long - term sickness , not only cost the economy billion more but cost people opportunity , hope and dignity , and now the Conservatives can not even agree a plan among themselves to address that . do the Minister agree that the conservative party be in chaos , while this government be bring forward sensible plan to give the country a way forward after the mess the Conservatives leave it in ? that be a powerful and long question , and I be glad that Conservative Members listen to every word of it , because they leave we 1 million young people not in education , employment or training — that be what a disgrace look like . what be happen now ? we have see fall number of neet over the past quarter and the past year . I call the shadow Secretary of State . two week ago , the hon . Gentleman ' s Government tell people they be u - turn on winter fuel payment because the economy be on a " firmer footing " . the next day , the unemployment figure be release , show that a quarter of a million job have be lose since the Chancellor ' s job - tax Budget . the country be now lose 100 , 000 job a month . these figure be bad than even the most pessimistic forecast . be that what a firm foot look like to the hon . Gentleman ? a firm footing for economic recovery look like kick the conservative party out of office and grow the economy once again , and that be what we see if we look at the datum . the hon . Lady like to look at one month ' s datum — well , let we look at it . datum from the Office for National Statistics show that vacancy rise by 27 % between April and May . I know the Conservatives want to pretend that everything be wonderful a year ago , but every business and every voter in this country know that that be not the case . honestly , who do the Minister think he be fool with this spiel ? growth forecast have be slash and inflation have surge . what world be he live in ? the Government have be in office for a year and people be lose their job because of the decision that they have make . how do he think his " everything ' s fine " mantra actually sound to one of the people who have lose their job or to a business face a tax bill that it can not afford ? have the Secretary of State even tell she Back Benchers , who will be strong - armed into vote for cut next week , that the welfare cut Bill that we will be debate will get a grand total of zero people into work , accord to the Government ' s own impact assessment ? the hon . Lady ask about what be go on with the economy . what be go on be that we have have four rate cut over the past year . what be go on be that we have sign three trade deal over the past year . what be go on be that employment have go up and inactivity have go down . I know that the Opposition love to latch on to one month ' s data , but let we look at the whole period of this government : wage have increase by more under this party in the past 10 month than they do in the first 10 year of the Conservative Government . personal Independence Payment what assessment she have make of the adequacy of the personal independence payment application process . what assessment she have make of the adequacy of the personal independence payment application process . the current PIP application process be outdate and can be very difficult to follow . alongside propose legislative change , the Department ' s health transformation programme will greatly improve the experience of apply and , I hope , increase confidence in the outcome of the assessment as a result . the response to my recent write question on disability benefit application list the 18 most common disability and health condition and show that hundred of thousand of people be award few than four point in all living activity and will miss out on the daily living component of PIP . they include people like Jemima in Harpenden , who suffer from severe physical disability and thyroid cancer and find even walk very difficult . will the Government please commit to reform the criterion to well reflect the full complexity of claimant ’ condition ? I recognise that many people who be on the PIP daily live component who do not get four point on anything at their last assessment be feel rather anxious . however , what they need to know — I hope the hon . Member will reassure her constituent on this — be that it be the view of the Office for Budget Responsibility that most of they will nevertheless still have their PIP after their fresh assessment once the change have be introduce . they will be introduce in November next year and an individual ' s assessment will take place whenever their first award review be after that date . the OBR be confident and clear that most of those people will keep their PIP . over 4 , 500 people in Ely and East Cambridgeshire claim PIP , and they be not just anxious , as you put it ; they be seriously worried that they be go to lose the payment and , with they , their independence . contrary to what you say — sorry , contrary to what the Minister say — the Government ' s own datum suggest that 85 % of people get standard payment and 11 . 5 % of those get enhance payment will lose support under the propose change . what step be the Minister take to support those who will be affect , include to make sure that their health and eligible care need be meet and , most importantly , that they can maintain their independence ? I suggest that , in future , short question might prevent mistake such as " you " . it be really important for claimant of PIP that its funding should be sustainable into the future . the trajectory of the past few year have be unsustainable . we be take action to put that right . the hon . Member be wrong to say that because people do not get four point last time , they will not keep their PIP . as I say , the view of the OBR , which I think be correct , be that most of they will . we be consult on how to support those who will lose their PIP as a result of the change that we have announce . minister have highlight that the PIP recipient who be expect to lose payment make up one in 10 of the total PIP caseload . that suggest that the impact of the cut will be limit , but it still represent 370 , 000 current recipient , who be expect to lose £ 4 , 500 on average . however , those number rest on a set of assumption that the OBR have describe as " highly uncertain " . DWP datum show that 1 . 3 million people currently receive PIP daily living payment would not meet the new criterion . before mp be ask to vote on impose such appalling poverty , will the DWP or the OBR provide further evidence underpin those claim ? the OBR have publish its assessment , and my hon . friend be right that it have assess that one in 10 of those receive PIP in November next year will have lose it by 2029 - 30 — one in 10 ; not the much large proportion that we be hear about early . follow that , we will be able to introduce the big ever investment in employment support for people out of work on health and disability ground . we do not want any long to trap people on low income for year and year ; we want people to be able to enter work and fulfil their ambition . that be what the investment will allow . be it not the simple and sad truth that any MP who vote for the upcoming welfare Bill will be vote to take PIP from disabled people who need assistance to cut up their food , wash themselves and go to the toilet ? no . member will be vote for reform to open up opportunity for people who have be deny opportunity for far too long . we be put that right . I call the shadow Minister . I respect the Minister very much , and I know that he care deeply about people who rely on the social security system . that be why it be such a tragedy that he be preside over these profound reform without have consult disabled people . can he explain why so many benefit claimant feel that these reform have be rush through , not to make a fair system but because the Treasury demand cut to meet the fiscal emergency create by the Chancellor ' s job - destroy , growth - stop Budget ? they be right to think that , be they not ? we be put in place a fair system . action be urgently need . in the year before the pandemic , PIP cost the Government £ 12 billion at current price , and last year it cost £ 22 billion . it also go up last year alone by £ 2 . 8 billion . PIP require urgent action , and that be what we be take . I be just sorry that there have be so little consultation with the victim of the change that the Government be introduce . one area where the Government do not seem to be look for saving be in the Motability scheme . it be suppose to help physically disabled people get around , but now we have 100 , 000 new people a year join the scheme , many of they not physically disable at all . one in five of all new car purchase be buy through this scheme , and it be cost taxpayer nearly £ 3 billion a year . I know that the Minister will blame we for the system , but the fact be that the Government be not even look at Motability . they have have a year , and it be their policy now . will the Minister commit to a proper review of the Motability scheme , and if not , why not ? I be not sure whether the shadow Minister want I to go far or not so far — he seem to be face both way . he be right that we be not at this point propose any change to the Motability scheme . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . recently I meet Kathryn from my constituency who have to give up a £ 90 , 000 - a - year job in order to care for her husband . with 150 , 000 carer set to lose their allowance due to PIP eligibility reform , some of our country ' s most hard - press household face lose £ 8 , 000 a year . will the Minister confirm that even if the welfare reform work out to the most optimistic expectation , there will be far more net loser that net gainer among PIP claimant ? among household as a whole , there will be more net gainer than net loser from the package . the reason for that be the increase to the standard allowance of universal credit , which accord to the Institute for Fiscal Studies be the big increase to the headline rate of benefit since at least 1980 . we be consult on support for those who will lose carer ' s allowance because of the change and consider what additional help they may need , include for health and care need . the hon . Member will have see in the Bill we have publish that we have commit to a 13 - week run - on of benefit after an assessment decision so that people have time to adjust to the new situation . Universal Credit : support into Work what step she be take to support people on universal credit into work . what step she be take to support people on universal credit into work . we be build a new job and career service for all , include those on universal credit , as the cornerstone of our Get Britain working reform . this new service will build towards an 80 % employment rate , close the gap between disabled people and other and between parent and those without care responsibility , and deal with the crisis in youth unemployment . we be also change universal credit to stop people be leave on the scrapheap , as per our " pathway to work " Green Paper . last week , I hold an emergency community meeting for 250 worker in my constituency who be about to lose their job follow the closure of the electric fibreglass site in Hindley Green . it be heartbreaking . some family have three generation of worker who have power the blast furnace and produce material for our energy , defence and housing sector . I be bitterly disappointed that after the hard graft of the Government , I , the Mayor of Greater Manchester and the GMB union , it have come to this , and another foreign company be close a blast furnace in our country . what be the Minister do to get worker like those back into work , so that they can do what they want to do , which be contribute to a strong industrial future ? specifically on the business that my hon . Friend mention , the Department ' s rapid response service have work with those affected and be keen to do more . I will personally ensure that he be put in touch with my colleague in the Department so that he can help facilitate that , too . more broadly , like many industrial community , my hon . friend ' s constituency deserve more good job . our industrial strategy will help lead the way on that , as will the Chancellor ' s investment plan set out in the recent spending review . I know that if my hon . Friend feel that we need to do more for his constituency , he will not hold back in tell we . my constituent Tracy be live in local authority temporary accommodation after flee domestic violence . she be currently trap on universal credit because the cost of her accommodation be way beyond anything she could earn locally — by a factor of about 10 . as a single young person , she face year before she be likely to be allocate a flat , and she be rightly concerned that future employer would question her year of unemployment and under - employment . she want to work full time but have be advise not to do so . do the Minister agree that we need to do something to address the cliff edge ? I thank my hon . friend for bring that important case to the House . universal credit have no fix hour requirement , but the connection between housing cost and universal credit , as she mention , be still a problem . I would be keen to look at the detail of her constituent ' s case . universal credit be introduce with the promise that it would move people off benefit and into work , but that clearly have not happen as we need it to happen , so considerable work be under way to deal with the inadequacy of the mess that the Conservative Government leave we . there be 300 more people on out - of - work benefit in Basildon and Billericay than there be 12 month ago . local business tell I that that be because business rate have go up under the Labour Government , national insurance tax have go up under the Labour Government and taxis on investment for the long term have go up under the Labour Government . do the Minister agree , or have she get another explanation for the fact that 300 more of my constituent be unemployed than there be 12 month ago ? our Department be determined to serve business well . if the right hon . member would like to help his local jobcentre do that and get good job into the jobcentre so that we can help his constituent , I be sure that I can facilitate that . however , he should be aware that employment be up and inactivity be down . we be move towards an 80 % employment rate , and the Chancellor ' s investment plan , as she set out in the spending review , will help we move towards that . the Government ' s proposal to change benefit have a compound consequence for people want to stay in work . for example , the Department have say that 95 , 000 working - age claimant receive carer ' s allowance and , under the proposal , would lose the PIP they receive . do the Minister agree that those proposal will actually make it hard for people to stay in work , rather than easy as they claim ? as the Secretary of State set out some moment ago , we be introduce the big improvement to employment support that the country have know . we will ensure that people receive the help they need to get into work and to stay in work . child Maintenance system : Economic Abuse what step her Department be take to help prevent the use of the child maintenance system to facilitate economic abuse . the issue of economic abuse through the Child Maintenance Service be a serious one , which this Government be look to address urgently . I be pleased to say that a response to the " Child Maintenance : improve the collection and transfer of payment " consultation be publish early today . we intend to reform the CMS into a single service type , where the CMS collect and transfer all payment . this reform will drastically reduce opportunity for economic abuse throughout the service and make sure that money get to the child who need it . we estimate that this change alone could lift more than 20 , 000 child out of poverty . I have too many constituent whose financial abuse be effectively be perpetuate and facilitate by the Child Maintenance Service . I have secure a meeting with the relevant Minister in the other place , but it have be postpone . could the Minister help I to secure a date for that meeting ? I be sure that he would agree that if the system be at fault , it need to change . I hope the hon . Member have hear I say that we concur with the need for change . we have announce change in the right direction today , and I will of course pick up with my fellow Minister about secure that meeting for she . I know they have already be in protract talk about arrange it , and I will make sure it happen . my constituent , Deborah , should receive monthly child maintenance payment for her daughter , but her former partner withhold payment , despite my complaint and her to the DWP Child Maintenance Service complaint team , advise they that he deliberately withhold payment for three month and then backdate they . that be a form of abuse and control behaviour , but the DWP complaint team have advise I today that there be nothing they can do to prevent it , despite a deduction - from - earning order be in place . do the Minister agree that that be a completely inadequate response that require a ministerial review of the system ? I be sorry to hear about the case that my hon . friend have highlight . he will have hear the reform that I announce early , but I absolutely understand why he want to raise this issue for his constituent , and if he would like to meet I to discuss it far , I would be happy to do that . pension policy : climate and nature target whether she be take step with Cabinet colleague to help support climate and nature target through her Department ' s pension policy . the short answer to that question be yes . the Department be contribute to two consultation that will shortly be publish by the Business and Energy Departments . they will invite view on the new UK sustainability reporting standard and transition plan . this will help investor , include pension saver and their scheme , to understand the impact of climate and nature on investment . as a co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group on sustainable finance and on global deforestation , I remain concerned that around £ 388 billion in UK pension saving be still invest in fossil fuel and deforestation - relate activity . will the Minister reassure I far that undermine the long - term financial security of saver in South East Cornwall be not the Government ' s intention , and will he commit to review this , include via the Pension Schemes Bill and the landmark pension review ? my hon . friend have be a powerful campaigner on this issue for some year , and she will know that large pension scheme be now require to publish annual report with climate - relate disclosure . the evidence show that around two third of pension fund have a net zero commitment in place , and we will be review those regulation over the course of this year . it be very important that those who have pension get a return , so that their pension be beneficial . it be also important to ensure that net zero be deliver , because many people who have pension want to see that happen . it be about get a balance , so how will the Minister get that balance ? on the first part of the hon . member ' s question , I do not want to get the balance , because we want to make sure that saver get the absolute good value they can for every buck they save . I completely endorse his sentiment on that part ; that be the very purpose of the Pension Schemes Bill that be come through . on the second part of his question , I also endorse the point that he make . when we look at those disclosure , we see that they set out a balance of judgment about the requirement on scheme , but they also provide great transparency so that both individual and the scheme themselves can take a view about the investment . personal Independence Payment what assessment she have make of the potential impact of the personal independence payment on the ability of disabled people to work . many disabled people want to work , but only 17 % of people on personal independence payment be in employment . we believe that disabled people should have the same right , chance and choice to work as anybody else , which be why we be deliver the big ever investment in employment support for sick and disabled people , quadruple what we inherit from the Tories to over £ 1 billion a year , and it be why we have ask the former boss of John Lewis , Sir Charlie Mayfield , to review what more we can do to support employer to recruit and retain more disabled people . one of my constituent , who have epilepsy , respond to the " pathway to work " consultation and highlight that the question imply that the Department view PIP as a pity payment , rather than a benefit design to offset the extra cost of disability , such as seizure alert device or accessible transport . without such support , disabled people be less able to live independently . do the Minister agree that cut PIP payment simply push more disabled people far from live independently and from employment ? I do not recognise the attitude that the hon . member describe — quite frankly , we feel precisely the opposite . this vital benefit make a crucial contribution towards the extra cost of live with a disability . that be why we want to reform it to protect it for generation to come , because we do not think that it be sustainable to have a doubling of the number of people on PIP over this decade from 2 million to more than 4 . 3 million . it be also why we be put in extra employment support , why we want to support employer to do more to recruit and retain disabled people , and why we want to reform access to work — a vital scheme that help people — because disabled people should have equal right , chance and choice to work , and that be what we seek to deliver . this morning , I have the pleasure of visit PACT for Autism , a brilliant local charity in Harlow . it raise concern about the accessibility of the PIP application process for those with autism . as the Department look to reform the process , could that be consider ? I absolutely will consider that . in fact , I ask my hon . friend and his constituent to feed into the work that my right hon . friend the Minister for Social Security and Disability be do . we have to ensure that it be as easy and effective as possible to access that vital benefit . it be crucial for people with autism , and we want to make it work properly . Child Poverty Taskforce what assessment she have make of the potential impact of the child poverty taskforce on level of child poverty in Stroud . what assessment she have make of the potential impact of the child poverty taskforce on level of child poverty in North Durham constituency . give our objective to reduce the number of child in poverty overall , I expect the impact of the child poverty strategy on child in Stroud to be positive , as all child benefit when the whole community can rely on child enjoy a good childhood . we will publish the child poverty strategy as soon as possible , but , as we have say , we be not wait to act . the Secretary of State have list a number of initiative that we have already be get on with . in Stroud , after 14 year of austerity , over 4 , 000 child be live in poverty . a recent Joseph Rowntree Foundation report state that after remove the two - child limit , the next most effective way of reduce child poverty be to get rid of the benefit cap . would the Minister be willing at least to review the benefit cap ? as the Secretary of State have already say , all policy that can lift child out of poverty be under consideration by the taskforce . we obviously will not commit to any policy without know how we will pay for it ; neither , as I have say , will we wait to act if there be step we can take immediately . I thank my hon . friend for his question , which I will take as input to the child poverty taskforce . I also take this opportunity to thank all colleague who have participate in the five parliamentary session that the taskforce have host since November 2024 . will the Minister give an update on the work the Department be do with the North East Mayor Kim McGuinness ' s child poverty reduction unit to tackle the specific driver of that issue in our region ? child poverty be a significant challenge in the north - east , and that be why it be right that Mayor Kim McGuinness participate in an early session of the taskforce and have shape the agenda since then . the child poverty unit engage regularly with colleague from the north - east and will hold a dedicated session on strategy with the north - east child poverty commission this week . mayor have be absolutely critical to the development of the strategy , and we will continue to work closely with they . as in Stroud and the north - east , child in poverty rely on food bank to get by — 6 , 617 food parcel in my constituency alone . will the Government take the advice of the Trussell Trust and seek and follow independent advice on the universal credit standard allowance ? as Labour ' s manifesto say , the emergency food parcel that we have see be a " moral scar " on our country . that be why I be glad that , as Ministers have say , we be increase the standard allowance for the first time in — as long as I can remember , certainly . I be also pleased that emergency food parcel be down this year . support into Work what step she be take to encourage people who be out of work to accept job that they be offer . if a person be out of work and be offer a job , they be require to accept appropriate work that be offer to they . the focus of our Get Britain Working reform be to address the current situation whereby nearly 3 million people be out of work sick and not actively look for work , and 1 . 7 million people be out of work but be not get the help they deserve from the exist jobcentre system . r and J Yorkshire ' s Finest butcher in Kirkby Malzeard have have multiple job application via jobcentre from people who they think never have an intention of go to interview or take a job . may I urge the Minister to look at how incentive and penalty be match up , to ensure that people actually turn up to interview and take a job ? the right hon . Gentleman mention a problem that I think be central to the situation that we have inherit . that be why , as I mention in response to the right hon . member for Basildon and Billericay ( Mr Holden ) , we be change the way that DWP act , so that we serve employer well and match people who actually want to move into those job . if the right hon . Gentleman would allow I , I will connect he with his local jobcentre manager , so that he can link up the business he mention . severely disabled People : east Worthing and Shoreham what step she be take to support severely disabled people who will never be able to work in East Worthing and Shoreham constituency . protect those who can never work be at the heart of our welfare reform . that be why , in the Universal Credit and Personal Independence Payment Bill , we be ensure that those with severe , lifelong condition , which will never improve and which mean they will never work , and those at the end of their life be guarantee the high rate of the universal credit health top - up , protect one in 10 of all future universal credit health top - up claim . we be also go far by ensure that those who meet the severe condition criterion be never again reassess , in order to stop unnecessary anxiety and stress , help 200 , 000 people over this Parliament . I thank the Secretary of State for that answer . I have be work with disabled constituent , our local jobcentre and employer to ensure that everyone be work together to maximise opportunity for disabled people , and that they be not just recruit but retain and thrive in job locally . however , some people will never be able to work or return to work , include many people with advanced progressive multiple sclerosis , and it be right that they be properly support . will my right hon . friend confirm what support will be in place for people like my constituent live with this disease ? I thank my hon . friend for the work he be do locally . as I say , those with severe lifelong condition — progressive condition that will never improve , and which mean they will never work — will be protect . even more importantly , they will never again be reassess for their benefit , remove that unnecessary and unacceptable anxiety and stress , and give they the dignity and security they deserve . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , as an officer of the all - party parliamentary group on eye health and visual impairment . a recent freedom of information request by the Royal National Institute of Blind People find that thousand of recipient whose primary health condition be list as eye disease be set to lose out from the reform to PIP , with referral to the RNIB ' s counsel service more than double since the Secretary of State announce the reform . there be over 3 , 500 people in Leicester with sight impairment . what be her Department do to help those constituent , give these harmful change to PIP ? I know the brilliant work that the RNIB do and the brilliant sight service locally in Leicester — I have visit they myself . I would say to the hon . Gentleman that nine out of 10 people who be claim PIP when these change come into place will be unaffected by they . we be go to see 750 , 000 more people claim PIP by the end of this Parliament compare with when we be elect , and , even with these change , spending will still be £ 8 billion high . topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . I be proud of the step this Labour Government be take to tackle child poverty . our historic expansion of free school meal to family on universal credit will lift 100 , 000 child out of poverty and tackle term - time hunger . that be alongside the £ 2 . 5 billion we be invest in the household support fund , and our commitment to fund the holiday activity and food programme , which will tackle holiday hunger too . make sure that child have hungry mind , not hungry belly , will help they to fulfil their potential in life , and that be what this Labour Government be all about . close the disability employment gap be a matter of opportunity for disabled people in my constituency . I recently visit M & M Supplies , a stand - out company in Bletchley , not only for its many export success but because a quarter of its workforce be adult with learn disability and difficulty — and that be thank mainly to the vision of manage director Frank Purcell , who work with organisation like MK SNAP to run a work experience programme for adult with disability . what assurance can my right hon . friend give I that this Government be commit to work with employer to ensure that no disabled people in my constituency be write off ? I congratulate , through my hon . friend , those in his constituency on the fantastic work that he have describe . I recently visit an incredible support internship programme that help young people with learn disability to get work and stay in work , include in our local NHS and with our local hotel voco in the heart of Leicester . this Government be determined to tackle the disability employment gap , which fall under the last Labour Government , although movement stall under the Tories . we be go to turn this around with the big ever investment in employment support , introduce mandatory disability pay gap reporting and look at what more we can do to support brilliant employer , like the one my hon . friend describe , to recruit and retain more disabled people . I call shadow Secretary of State . More than half of new health and disability benefit claim be now for mental health , yet under the Government ' s welfare cut Bill the personal independence payment could be strip from three quarter of claimant with arthritis and two third of those with heart disease but few than half of those with anxiety . do the right hon . Lady believe this be the right decision ? I have great personal respect for the hon . Lady but she really need to make up her mind : first she say our proposal be too late , then she say they be rush ; she criticise we for be cruel , and then say the opposition be go to vote against our Bill because it do not go far enough . but her deputy , the hon . member for East Wiltshire ( Danny Kruger ) , have let the cat out of the bag , say in a recent Westminster Hall debate : " I be not able to tell … exactly what we would do . " — [ Official Report , 7 May 2025 ; Vol . 766 , c . 301WH . ] the truth be that the Conservatives be a broken party with no idea , let alone a strategy — and , unless they change course , they have no future either . goodness I ; I ask the right hon . Lady quite a serious question , so that be a very disappointing answer . however , she and I be in agreement that the benefit bill need to come down , and that will need real reform of the system , so why be she press ahead in a panic with her half - bake cut rather than do the job properly ? we would support a proper rethink of which condition should get what help , and a well system for people struggle with mental health or neurodiversity , who would be well off in work than park on benefit . why do not she make that part of her plan ? let I tell the hon . Lady what we be do to improve mental health support for people in this country and to make sure that it be treat with equal importance to physical health : we have make significant progress towards recruit the additional 8 , 500 mental health worker we say we would recruit in our manifesto to reduce delay and provide support ; we have confirm funding to help an extra 380 , 000 patient get access to talk therapy ; and we be invest the big ever amount in employment support for sick and disabled people . I say to the hon . Lady , who leave 2 . 8 million people out of work due to long - term sickness and 1 million young people not in education , employment or training , that it be about time she apologise to the country and make up her mind about whether she will back our reform . I remind member that topical question and answer should be brief . my constituent , Nicola Smith , work for NHS Fife . like many people across the country , she be not pay on the same date each month . this lead to incorrect calculation for her husband Steven ' s universal credit , often leave the family without a payment or be sanction before the system catch up the follow month , and I be aware of thousand of other in a similar position . what reassurance can the Minister provide that he be address these issue , ensure smooth and fair payment for NHS worker and their family on universal credit , and will he meet I to discuss this issue in more detail ? we be review universal credit to ensure that it make work pay and tackle poverty , and we be look at exactly the kind of problem that my hon . friend highlight . I would be delighted to meet he to discuss it , because Nicola , Steven and all 7 , 000 household claim universal credit in his constituency will benefit from the standard allowance increase propose in the Universal Credit and Personal Independence Payment Bill , which we will be debate next week ; it be the big increase in the headline rate of benefit since at least 1980 . [ Official Report , 26 June 2025 ; Vol . 769 , c . 6wc . ] ( Correction ) in her March Green Paper , the Secretary of State promise to provide an additional £ 1 billion in funding to help benefit claimant back into work , but only £ 400 million have actually be allocate , and even that will not come until 2028 - 29 . we have hear some talk of efficiency saving , which be practically the definition of a magic money tree if ever there be one , so will the Minister confirm that the promise £ 1 billion for employment support will be all new money , and not cannibalise from other vital DWP service ? yes . already this year , we be roll out £ 300 million of support through our Get Britain working plan and connect to Work . that will rise to £ 600 million next year and build to an additional £ 1 billion . this be the big ever investment into employment support for sick and disabled people , because we believe work be the route out of poverty . we want to build dignity and a well life for those who can work , while protect those who can not . child poverty in my constituency grow from 12 . 4 % in 2015 to 15 . 5 % in 2024 : huge growth under the last government . with the child poverty taskforce due to report soon , can the Secretary of State assure I and my Dartford constituent that child poverty at the end of this Parliament will be low than it be when it begin ? yes , I can . that be a firm commitment from I personally , and from the Prime Minister . we have make a start on that work : our expansion of free school meal to child in all household on universal credit will benefit , I think , around 6 , 500 child in my hon . friend ' s constituency , and we be help more people into work , which be the good way to tackle poverty in the long term . we have a long way to go , but we be absolutely committed to bring those number down . some 40 % of people in West Dorset who be in receipt of a personal independence payment receive the high level of support . many be extremely anxious about PIP assessment be carry out over the phone rather than in person , particularly those with complex or fluctuating condition . will the Minister guarantee that anyone who want an in - person assessment will receive one ? yes , we absolutely want that to happen . indeed , we want to record the assessment as standard to ensure that claimant have confidence in what be be do . this be an issue that cause huge anxiety among my constituent . too many decision take too long and be overturn , and we want to deal with these problem head - on . when the under - 25 universal credit rate be first introduce , the justification for it be that young people be more likely to be live at home , but there be a group — care - experienced young people — for whom that be often not the case . a transformational decision by this Government would be to build on and go far in the work that we be already do with the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill and decision at the spending review by make this change for that very important group of young people . I commend my hon . friend for all his work on this issue , include his seminal 2022 independent review . he be right that care leaver need support as they move to independent living . the Department for Work and Pensions at the moment exempt care leaver from the share accommodation rate , and provide support toward sustained employment and career progression . we will certainly consider if there be more that we can do . I call Andrew Rosindell — not here . Emma from Tring be one of my constituent who have say that these change to disability benefit will mean that they will have to come out of a career in the NHS . what do the Secretary of State have to say to those who be terrify about lose their work after change to disability allowance ? nine out of 10 people who be on PIP when the change come in will be unaffected by the end of this Parliament . anybody who be affect will keep that benefit for three month — that is , I think , one of the long transitional protection ever and certainly three time as long as when we move from disability living allowance to PIP . the important access to work fund be there precisely to help anybody who need that sort of support to get into work . we will guarantee that during those three month , anyone who be affect and who use their PIP for work will get access to an adviser who will help they to apply for access to Work , because it be so important that we support they . with 800 , 000 people not go to be in receipt of PIP by 2029 - 30 , we have to be honest in this House . we all know , don ' t we , that many of those people be just not able to access the healthcare that they need , such as for mental health , neurodiversity and physical health ? as a result , they will not be able to work , but they will be push into poverty because of these reform . will the Secretary of State please , please , please pause these reform to ensure that those people , who have desperate health need , be not force into poverty ? my hon . friend will know that this Labour Government be invest billion extra into the NHS precisely so that we can drive down wait for vital operation and increase the number of people get mental health treatment . it be also the case that good work be good for physical and mental health . there be very clear evidence on that , and that be one of the thing we know that we can achieve with the £ 1 billion extra a year in employment support . match the scottish child payment by raise the child element of universal credit would bring more than half a million child out of poverty . the Secretary of State have be clear that a lot of issue be be consider by the child poverty taskforce . be raise the child element of universal credit to the level of the scottish child payment one of those matter ? at the risk of bore the House , let I say that all lever be very much on the table when it come to get our kid out of poverty . a single parent in my constituency have work full time for more than 20 year but be now in personal crisis because universal credit be unable to reimburse the childcare cost she have pay in advance . I hope the Minister agree that it be deeply unfair that my constituent be leave short every month despite work incredibly hard . will he set out way in which the Government be support hard - work woman with childcare need ? my hon . friend ' s constituent will benefit from the big increase in the universal credit standard allowance , which we have talk about , and from free school meal for her child . somebody who start work or increase their hour may also be eligible for support with up - front childcare cost . the flexible support fund can award the full cost for up to a month of fee to a childcare provider in advance of the care be deliver , so that may be an option for his constituent . at the weekend , Vivergo and Ensus worker learn that UK negotiator have successfully protect the UK bioethanol industry until President Trump call the Prime Minister and he sell out that industry , allow a genetically modify bioethanol to flood the market and put all those job at risk . what can the Secretary of State tell those worker who feel that they have be sell out by our Prime Minister when negotiator have successfully protect an industry of the future ? this government will always have the back of work people , and I believe there will be a statement shortly on our modern industrial strategy . I know that Ministers from the Department for Business and Trade will be extremely engage in the point that the right hon . Gentleman have just raise . many new mother in Plymouth be claim maternity allowance , not because they be unemployed , but because they do not qualify for statutory maternity pay ; they may be self - employ , have recently change job or have have a pregnancy - relate sickness . many of they have contact I with concern that maternity allowance be treat as unearned income and be therefore subject to universal credit deduction , unlike statutory maternity pay . what step be the Department take to ensure financial security for woman in Plymouth who be claim maternity allowance ? I understand the point that my hon . friend make . the treatment of maternity allowance in universal credit be subject to a judicial review , which uphold the policy of treat it as unearned income when calculate universal credit and of treat smp pay by employer as earning , in common with other statutory payment make by employer . my hon . friend may be interested to know that , depend on individual circumstance , additional financial support — for example , child benefit and the sure start maternity grant — may be available to parent . my constituent Tirath be currently be pursue by the Child Maintenance Service for £ 20 , 000 , despite have successfully appeal the claim in 2022 . he be now at risk of lose his professional status as a pharmacist because of this process . will the Minister encourage the CMS to investigate that case urgently or to meet with I to discuss it ? I be very sorry to hear about the plight of the hon . member ' s constituent . if she would like a meeting with I , I be very happy to give she that , and I be also happy to look into the matter , as she suggest . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . previous change in eligibility for disability benefit have result in significant adverse health impact , include an additional 600 suicide in 2010 and 130 , 000 more people with new onset mental health condition in 2017 . what estimate have the Government undertake of the impact on health of the Universal Credit and Personal Independence Payment Bill , which be due to have its Second reading next week ? I be look forward to answer question about these matter in front of the Committee on Wednesday morning . we be work very closely with the Department of Health and Social Care to ensure that the health and care need of people who lose benefit as a result of this process be meet . do Ministers agree with the Trussell Trust ' s recent estimate that the weekly cost of basic essential be £ 120 for a single person and £ 205 for a couple ? through the child poverty taskforce , we have be look at the issue of income versus expenditure . we be take step urgently where we be able , but we will have more to say about that issue shortly . Middle East with permission , I will make a statement on the Israel - Iran conflict . since I last update the House , the United States have strike three iranian nuclear site at Isfahan , Natanz and Fordow . Defence Secretary Pete Hegseth have say that the action be " intentionally limit " . Britain be not involve in the strike , just as it be not involve in Israel ' s operation , but Britain have long have concern about Iran ' s nuclear programme . Iran can never have a nuclear weapon , and the United States have now take action to alleviate that threat . a nuclear - armed Iran would endanger the immediate region and threaten the global community . this be a perilous moment in the middle east . wave of strike between Israel and Iran have last for 10 day , continue overnight . I know that the whole House will have in their thought the many civilian impact by the fighting . I can confirm today that they include one british national injure in Israel . we have reach out to offer consular support . Iran have consistently fail to reassure the world that it be not pursue a nuclear weapon . the House will recall Prime Minister Gordon Brown call out Iran for perpetrate " serial deception " over year after exposure of the fortified Fordow nuclear site . today , Iran ' s enriched uranium stockpile be 40 time over the limit set by the joint comprehensive plan of action . Iran be enrich at 60 % , while typically , a commercial nuclear reactor such as the one at Sizewell operate with uranium enrich at between 3 % and 5 % . Iran lack any civilian justification for this level of nuclear activity , and the International Atomic Energy Agency ' s board of governor have declare Iran to be in breach of its nuclear non - proliferation obligation . as we respond to this fast - move situation , our first priority remain the welfare of british national in Iran and Israel and of our staff on the ground . our crisis team in London and the region have be work around the clock , and Israel have put restriction on its airspace since Friday 13 June . the british embassy in Tel Aviv and the british consulate in Jerusalem be open . all our diplomat remain in place support british national , and we have bolster the embassy in Tel Aviv with a rapid deployment team from the UK . we have be work closely with the israeli authority to prepare flight to evacuate vulnerable british national and their dependant . yesterday , we launch a booking portal for british national . today , as soon as it be possible to enter israeli airspace , I can confirm to the House that a Royal Air Force a400 have fly in to Tel Aviv and take 63 british national and their dependant to Cyprus , from where they will be bring home this evening . further flight will follow in the come day , security allow . we will prioritise those with great need and contact those allocate a seat directly . we will send update on future flight to all british national register with the Foreign Office , and I encourage all british national still in Israel and the occupy territory to register their presence , so that they receive our update . these british national should follow instruction from the israeli authority . international land border crossing to Jordan and Egypt be open , and commercial flight continue from both those country . consular team be on hand to assist british national who have cross the border . in Iran , airspace remain closed and there have be a near - total internet shutdown . due to the security situation , we take the precautionary step last Friday of temporarily withdraw our staff from Iran . the embassy be operate remotely , though our ability to support british national still in Iran be extremely limited . the House will know that the Foreign Office have advise against travel to Iran since 2019 . those seek to cross Iran ' s land border can contact the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office for assistance , include with additional paperwork . british national in the wide region should follow our travel advice closely . follow a US security alert for its national in Qatar , out of an abundance of caution we now recommend that british national in Qatar shelter in place until further notice . alongside our consular team , our diplomat be fully engage in try to end this crisis . we can and we must find a negotiate solution . the window have narrow , but the risk of further escalation be so great , and the cost so considerable for Britain and all in the region , that this be the Government ' s priority . we do not yet know precisely how far the US strike have set back Iran ' s nuclear programme , but there remain the need for a durable diplomatic solution . strike can not destroy the knowledge Iran have acquire over several decade , nor any regime ambition to deploy that knowledge to build a nuclear weapon . that be why we have be work so intensively with the new US Administration to reach a new agreement with Iran . Iran and President Trump ' s envoy , Steve Witkoff , hold five round of negotiation . Britain join France and Germany in seven round of engagement with Iran , too . even after the israeli strike , I travel to Washington and then Geneva last week , meet in the White House with Secretary Rubio and Witkoff , and then sit opposite iranian Foreign Minister Araghchi in several hour of talk , push for Iran to accept the diplomatic off - ramp . directly after the US strike , we have be at the heart of a collective drive with partner to get back to negotiation . my right hon . and learn Friend the Prime Minister have speak to President Trump . I have speak to Marco Rubio and israeli Foreign Minister Sa ' ar . we have both be in touch with european and middle eastern partner . that be why I speak again to Minister Araghchi yesterday . my message for Tehran be clear : take the off - ramp , dial this thing down and negotiate with the United States seriously and immediately . the alternative be an even more destructive and far - reach conflict , which could have unpredictable consequence . the situation present serious risk to british interest in the region . follow the moving in of additional asset on a precautionary basis , force protection be at its high level . the House should be in no doubt : we be prepared to defend our personnel , our asset , and those of our ally and partner . we be closely monitor how energy market be respond to the conflict , and we have be extremely clear with the Iranians : any action to blockade the strait of Hormuz would be a monumental act of economic self - harm , make a diplomatic solution even hard . we be also maintain a sharp focus on other conflict in the region , first and foremost the catastrophic plight of Gazans and the ongoing ordeal of the hostage and their loved one , all fear that this war leave they forget . today I meet Eli Sharabi , hold in chain by Iranian - back terrorist , who be release from Hamas captivity only to discover that they have murder his family . last week the Israel Defence Forces recover the body of two hostage , as well as that of Shai Levinson , an Israeli with british family kill on 7 October , which Hamas have be cruelly keep from their love one . half a million palestinian civilian be face starvation and more than 400 have reportedly be kill in recent week try to access food , while Gazan hospital have have to stop service that be vital for childbirth and emergency surgery . this be appalling , it be unacceptable , and it must finally end . the israeli Government must lift aid restriction , and Hamas must release all the hostage . an immediate ceasefire have never be more urgent . the consequence of the current situation be hard to predict . history can offer we no guide after event that be unprecedented in the region . the Government have seek to react quickly to the twist and turn of recent week , while maintain a focus on where british interest lie — with a lasting end to Iran ' s nuclear programme , a de - escalation of tension , and security for our people across the region . we will continue to persevere with diplomacy . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State . two week ago , the IAEA produce a report that be damn of the iranian regime . Iran be not co - operate , and be breach its obligation . it have more than 400 kg of uranium enrich to 60 % , far beyond any level need for a civilian nuclear programme , and enough material to create at least nine nuclear device , while its nuclear facility be bury deep underground to hide its programme — and all this from a despotic authoritarian regime that repress and torture its own people , be commit to the annihilation of Israel , the world ' s only jewish state , be responsible for so much of the suffering in the region through its sponsorship of terrorist proxy , be support Putin in his illegal war against Ukraine , and be involve in plot and activity to undermine our national security here at home on a daily basis . it be for these reason , and for many more , that the iranian regime must never be allow to have nuclear weapon . that be why we stand with those who be work to stop they — the House will know that , as his Majesty ' s opposition , we will always put the defence and security of our country first — and why we will work constructively with the Government to secure the protection of the british people and our national interest . we will support the government when they be do the right thing , but we will also question , challenge and press minister to go far when we think that more need to be do to safeguard our interest , and it be in that spirit of constructive scrutiny in the national interest that I put these question and point to the Foreign Secretary . first , british national and dual national continue to be strand in Israel and the middle east owe to airspace closure . I have write to the Foreign Secretary about this matter , and note the progress be make with today ' s flight . I thank the Foreign Office for the work that it have be do with many family with whom I have also be in touch , who have be able to get on to that flight today . can the Foreign Secretary tell we how many british national may need to be repatriate ? what resource be be deploy to support those effort ? be there enough capacity to match the number of people who need to leave , and why do it seem that the US and other european country be ahead of we in their operational planning to bring back their citizen ? the Foreign Secretary have mention the US embassy ' s advice , and he have give advice to british national in Qatar today . will there be any further notification for other british national in Gulf Co - operation Council state ? secondly , on Iran ' s nuclear programme , the Foreign Secretary could not say on radio this morning how effective the weekend ' s strike be . I understand that it will take time to get information , but if more strike to far degrade Iran ' s nuclear capacity be plan , will the Government consider support they ? the Government have not take a clear position on the action that the US and Israel have take , but we have see report of the apparent legal advice from the Attorney General caution against UK involvement . while I appreciate that the Foreign Secretary can not comment on any legal advice , do the Government have a position on the lawfulness of the strike , and do he welcome the end as well as the mean ? do he share my cynicism about Iran ' s attempt to cloak itself in the UN charter — the same UN charter that it have undermine for decade through its brutality ? can the Foreign Secretary confirm whether the US will be permit to take action from Diego Garcia should future strike on Iran or action to defend Israel be need , or do the Government think that there be legal barrier to the US do so ? thirdly , with heighten tension in the region , can the Foreign Secretary give an update on what further step be be take to safeguard british military asset in the region and our partner from any unwise military action take by the iranian regime ? give the report over the weekend of a suspect iranian spy plot target our base in Cyprus , be we now step up effort to protect basis ? fourthly , what step be be take across Government and with our police , counter - terrorism and security service to reassess the domestic threat level ? the Foreign Secretary can not go into operational detail , so can he give an assurance that robust action and disruption to any potential Iran - back plot be under way ? he rightly mention the issue of Gaza and the fact that we absolutely must work together to ensure that humanitarian aid get to people who be desperately in need of it . can the Foreign Secretary update we on what step he have take to engage with Israel to get more aid into Gaza , and do he agree that Iran must be weaken to end its ability to sponsor Hamas and other terrorist in the region ? I be very grateful for the co - operative tone in which the right hon . Lady have make her remark . quite rightly , she have a number of question that I will attempt to answer , but let I begin by say that , fundamentally , we be in agreement that the regime in Iran can never have a nuclear weapon , and all our effort be design to ensure that that be the case . the whole House will understand that this be not just about Iran , the region and global security ; we have to remain steadfast in our commitment not to see nuclear proliferation . if Iran get a nuclear weapon , other in the region would clearly seek to follow . it be , therefore , a sober commitment , begin 80 year ago , that we must see to completion in relation to those ambition . the right hon . Lady ask about british national in Israel . just over 4 , 000 british national have register their interest follow our appeal last week , and judge by the pattern in previous crisis in Israel and the region , we estimate that between 15 % and 20 % of they will take up the offer of british assistance to leave . as she know , the airspace have be close , so that offer — until this point — have be about get they to the border , but I be very pleased that a flight have land and take off , and we hope to work with the israeli Government on further flight from the area . my understanding be that the Americans have put on a military plane from Israel for its citizen , but she will understand that the uniqueness of the relationship between the United States and Israel facilitate that opening , and I be very pleased we have be able to garner the same agreement with the israeli Government . this be an ongoing and fast - move situation , and she have hear what I have advise british national in Qatar today . of course , we keep this under close review , and there may need to be far update over the next few day . it be important that I be in Washington DC to sit down with the US Administration , and in that meeting with Marco Rubio and Steve Witkoff last week , it be very clear to I that all option be on the table and that President Trump have those option in front of he . I of course discuss with they in detail the trip I would be make to Geneva , alongside my french and german counterpart and the European High Representative , and they be keen and hopeful that it might be successful . it be not successful , but we continue to press the Iranians to take the off ramp and get into negotiation with the United States and the E3 to ensure that they be in compliance . the right hon . Lady ask about the legal advice . that must rightly be a matter for the US Government in relation to their action . I be pleased that she mention the ministerial code . she will know that paragraph 2 . 13 of the ministerial code prevent those of we in government — and she have be in government in the past — discuss legal advice so that Government can operate in the appropriate way . however , I would say to she that this be not our action . we have be clear that we be not involve . she ask whether we have any request from the US Government . we do not get such a request , but we be notify before the action take place . the right hon . Lady also ask about state threat , and it be right to say that we have thwart 20 such state threat in this country since 2022 . she will know , include from the fact that we put Iran in the high tier for national interference , that we take the threat from Iran very seriously . we be review the gap that Jon Hall find in how we deal with state threat in our country , and we will come forward with legislation in the come month . I call the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee . the only way to stop Iran build a nuclear bomb be a deal , but there can not be a deal without negotiation and there can not be negotiation without trust . President Trump tear up the first nuclear deal and be now act alongside Israel , and its attack last week end the US - Iran negotiation for a new nuclear deal . the war aim of this campaign be so unclear , with an embolden Netanyahu Government call for regime change , and President Trump hint at it , too . in all those circumstance , it be difficult to see how there can be negotiation base on trust . do the Foreign Secretary agree that Britain must continue to play a role in the negotiation , even though they must seem an incredibly difficult and challenging prospect ? I be very grateful to my right hon . friend , the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee , for her question . it go to the heart of where the UK should be at this time , and that be at the centre of the diplomatic effort . a diplomatic effort will be necessary at the end of this process because , sadly , once people have the ability to enrich uranium to 60 % , that knowledge be not lose . it be the step stone to an advanced weapon , and therefore only a diplomatic solution and the correct framework can ensure that we keep the global community safe . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I , too , thank the Foreign Secretary for advance sight of his statement . the Liberal Democrats share in the condemnation of an iranian regime that pose an existential threat to Israel and have terrorise its own people as surely as it have citizen from other country around the world , include the UK . that be why we support the consensus in this House that Iran can never be allow to have nuclear weapon . yet it be not clear that military action by Israel and the US can provide the necessary long - term lock on Iran ' s nuclear ambition . follow this weekend ' s strike , it be report that Iran will work at pace to develop weapon with what remain of its enrich uranium supply . that should give pause to those on the Conservative and Reform Benches who have breathlessly echo President Trump ' s line that the strike have be an unrivalled success . instead of bring security , Trump and Netanyahu ' s unilateral action have increase uncertainty and the risk of a full - scale regional war . their belief that might be right both further erode the rule - base international order and undermine the prospect of contain Iran and other rogue state in the long term . this be not the UK ' s interest . that be why Liberal Democrats have call consistently for the application of robust diplomacy , support by International Atomic Energy Agency monitoring and ground in international law , as the only sustainable way permanently to limit Iran ' s nuclear ambition . our immediate priority must now be to ensure the safety and support of british national in the region , learn the lesson of unacceptable delay on previous occasion , so why have it take over a week since the start of strike to begin repatriate Britons from Israel ? what more be be do to support those in the wide region who want to leave ? the Government have also remain silent on the legality of this conflict . will the Foreign Secretary now commit to publish the Attorney General ' s advice on whether any UK involvement in the conflict would constitute a breach of international law ? will he confirm that this House will be give a vote before any decision for the UK to enter this conflict ? I agree with the hon . Gentleman and the thrust of his remark , which be around the need for diplomacy at this time . he be absolutely right about the malign intent of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps and the iranian regime , whose desire be to wipe Israel off the map . we must stand up to that pernicious ideology . we be attempt to , again , de - escalate . I remind he that Vice - President Vance say just yesterday that delay the development of a nuclear weapon be the goal . he say , " we be at war with Iran ' s nuclear programme . we be not at war with the iranian people . " it be important for the hon . gentleman to keep that in his mind ' s eye . the hon . Gentleman ask about british national . he hear what I say about the airspace be close . I be pleased that the first flight have take off . I remind he of successive UN resolution — I refer he in particular to resolution 2231 — in relation to this long - stand breach . he ask about the legal advice . he hear my comment on the legal advice . we be not involve . this be not our legal context . he ask about publish the Attorney General ' s legal advice . that might have be appropriate if we be involve — I do not think it be — but we be not involved , so there be no such advice to publish . I welcome the Foreign Secretary ' s call to move this to a negotiate solution , and his focus on UK defence and security . he be right that Iran must never acquire a nuclear weapon . however , history also teach we , on regime change , that intervention aim at regime change in Iraq , Libya and Afghanistan have produce prolonged instability , not just in the region but far wider . what concrete lesson do he believe can be learn from this recent history in shape Iran policy today ? I be grateful to my hon . friend , but he will forgive I . I be not go to enter into a history lesson from the Dispatch Box , except to remind he that on Sunday I achieve 25 year as an elect parliamentarian . during the course of that period , there have , of course , be debate about regime change . I also remind he that the US have be clear that its intention be to target the nuclear threat . we should keep that in mind . will the Foreign Secretary now concede that the international community ' s unwillingness to take robust action through thing like the snapback mechanism and the JCPOA be part of the reason that Israel feel the need to take the initial strike and America to do likewise ? I agree that diplomatic mean will ultimately be the only long - term resolution , but that mean not just ask nicely for Iran to put its nuclear weapon away , but enforce that and ensure it do so through such mechanism . will the Foreign Secretary ensure that if we be not go to be involve in military action — I understand why we might not want to do that — we will ensure that robust action be take , and that it be underpin by measure that will force Iran to do the right thing , rather than just hope that it will do the right thing ? I be grateful to the right hon . Gentleman — I know he know how difficult it be to deal with Iran . he will remember that under the JCPOA , Iran be allow to enrich to 3 . 67 % ; today , it be at 60 % . the question be , how could that possibly be for civilian use ? I challenge the iranian Foreign Minister on that on Friday . we have have seven round of negotiation with the Iranians , which begin under the right hon . Gentleman ' s government ; he be Foreign Secretary for a period of that . Iran have obfuscate and deceive — the time now be to get real . will the Foreign Secretary assure the House that while we all want to see urgent de - escalation , the escalate conflict in Iran will not take focus from the UK ' s effort to end the devastating war in Gaza , help the palestinian people , free the hostage and lift restriction on humanitarian and medical aid ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for her question . the loss of life over the past few day — hundred of people who lose their life queue for food — be appal and should offend we all . of course , when I speak to Israel ' s Foreign Minister yesterday , I remind he once again of my deep concern over the new system that Israel have put in place to deliver aid and of our belief that that system can not and will not work , and that we need to return to a much well provision . the Foreign Secretary have say that Iran must not be allow to have a nuclear weapon . do he therefore support the recent target strike by the United States and Israel on iranian nuclear facility : yes or no ? if not , can he explain how exactly that inaction would have curtail Iran ' s nuclear ambition ? I be afraid I be not able to give an assessment of the effectiveness of that action at this stage , and neither be the United States . the hon . Lady may think that that be a binary question , but I do not believe it be . what the UK be engage in be diplomacy , and we be work , of course , with our close ally , the United States . I associate myself with the Foreign Secretary ' s condemnation of the humanitarian crisis in Gaza , but we need to match that condemnation with accountability . here in the UK , jewish community in particular be deeply concerned about what lie ahead . last week , the iranian ambassador acknowledge before the Foreign Affairs Committee that MI5 have identify 22 threat on british soil that have be organise by the iranian regime . what be the Foreign Secretary ' s message to jewish community , who be in a state of high alert at the moment , wonder what will happen ? my hon . friend be right that the iranian regime be the world ' s bad sponsor of state terrorism and state threat . we have three individual who be arrest under the National Security Act 2023 move through our judicial system . I want to reassure those in the jewish community in our country that we take those threat very seriously , and I and the Home Secretary will do all we can to keep they , their building , their institution and their family safe . as usual , I agree with much of what the Foreign Secretary have to say , but I have to ask he this : how many time must a terrorist - funding , fanatical regime threaten to wipe another country from the face of the earth before a Government advise by Lord Hermer of Chagos acknowledge that military action to delay and degrade its nuclear weapon programme be both ethically and legally justifiable ? I simply say to the right hon . Gentleman , with all respect , that there be a convention in our country about the very important role that Attorneys General play in our government . they be able to give the Government advice when ask for it ; that happen under all government . I do not really recognise the caricature that I have hear or some of the report . I want to make it crystal clear that we be not involve in this action and therefore some of what be be say be wholly beyond the pale . many constituent contact I over the weekend , fearful of the fallout from US intervention in Iran . they know , and we know , that war do not make the world a safe place , but make it much more dangerous . their concern be not unwarranted . in 2002 , Netanyahu offer a guarantee that regime change in Iraq would bring " enormous positive reverberation " to the region . we now know that there be no imminent threat and no evidence of weapon . the scale of the disaster , not just in Iraq but across the region , be so profound that the Chilcot inquiry insist that any future military intervention must be meet with rigorous scrutiny . do the Foreign Secretary accept the need for such scrutiny , and will he reassure the House again that we will not enter an endless war fuel by reckless provocateur ? I be in the House during the period in which Chilcot be do his work , and I reassure my hon . friend that our government — and , I hope , all future UK Governments — have learn from its finding . the Foreign Secretary have confirm that Britain be not involve in the strike on Iran . will he also confirm whether the US Administration seek permission to use Diego Garcia as the launch point for the strike ? if permission be seek and deny , on what basis do the Prime Minister deny permission ? if it be not seek , what do it say about the UK - US relationship that America would rather fly around the world from Missouri than launch from Diego Garcia ? they do not seek that advice . I thank the Foreign Secretary for his measured approach to this crisis . in past round of violence , Iran have often lean on its proxy to conduct retaliation . they include the Houthis of Yemen , who until recently have be attack UK and international shipping in the Red sea . what step be the Foreign Secretary take to protect UK shipping in that area and to keep safe the trade route that be so vital for our country ? Iran ' s proxy , include Hezbollah and Hamas , have be considerably degrade over this period . the Houthis have be hold back but be still active in the Red sea . we will do all we can , work with partner , to protect our shipping route . we have be crystal clear to the iranian regime about the strait of Hormuz in particular . the Foreign Affairs Committee meet the iranian ambassador twice last week , and he claim that Iran ' s nuclear programme be legal and purely civil , and he say that they want to negotiate . can the Foreign Secretary say , on the basis of the numerous meeting with the iranian Foreign Minister that he have report , whether he gain any impression of Iran ' s willingness either to dismantle its nuclear programme or to negotiate ? that be the central question . what I have find be inflexibility , as well as a failure to face the seriousness with which the international community be look at this question and to accept both that we have move on from the joint comprehensive plan of action , which the Iranians pull out of back in 2019 , and that the focus now be on zero enrichment . maybe they can have a civil nuclear capability , but it would have to be heavily monitor and would need some sort of international regime in locus with it . they have to face that seriousness now at this point . I thank the Foreign Secretary for his statement . he say that the whole House will have in their thought the many civilian impact by this fighting . I have in my thought the many protester who take to the street after the brutal and tragic killing of Mahsa Amini in September 2022 . we see protester come forward and stand up against the brutal regime , and we see people be mutilate . the last 20 year of intervention have show that war and wide escalation will not help these people ; it will not help the ordinary Iranians who be suffer under this regime . I have receive many email from my constituent , one of which say : " the priority should be to negotiate a peaceful resolution to the conflict , not supply weapon to either side of the conflict , and far , to support the facilitation of aid to civilian impact by the war " . can the Foreign Secretary assure I that the UK will not act immediately to follow any military action and that we will urge the US and Israel to de - escalate and avoid target innocent civilian ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for mention Mahsa Amini — a young woman who be imprison in Iran because of her appearance and then kill in police custody . some 20 , 000 people , many of they protester , be throw into jail as a result , and 500 lose their life — effectively murder . that be the regime we be talk about , and my hon . friend be quite right to remind the House of that . on diplomacy , I refer she to the statement I have previously make about our position on it . a lot of people watch and worry over the weekend will have see many of the hallmark of Iraq . despite that , the Foreign Secretary can not tell we whether or not he believe that the strike be the right thing to do , or whether or not he believe that the strike be legal , and he have fail to outline today whether this House would be give a vote on any potential military action in this conflict . be he purposely treat the public as fool ? the hon . Gentleman may just have get a soundbite , but I be afraid that I be not go to take any lecture from he on the nuclear question . he have a very sorry record on that serious matter . we have be very clear that diplomacy be the way and that de - escalation be our position . that be what a government pursue if they be serious about foreign policy , and I would recommend our approach to he . I join the Foreign Secretary in thank our brave service personnel from RAF Brize Norton for repatriate british citizen from Tel Aviv . in this Armed Forces Week , we be all grateful for their courage and sacrifice . on Iran , let we be clear about the regime : it have kill thousand upon thousand ; uphold the brutal suppression of democracy , as well as the right of woman and of LGBT + people ; and demonstrate a consistent intent to sponsor terrorism and act through proxy with violence to destabilise the region . but all military action must go through the process of international law , and its execution must be base on a plan and intent to return to democracy . do my right hon . friend agree that we must do what we can to support de - escalation as soon as possible ? I be very grateful to my hon . friend for his service in the RAF , and I be sure that he be think about his former colleague at RAF Akrotiri and across our two sovereign basis in the area , and in particular about our bilateral defence partnership with so many country in the region . I be pleased to make it crystal clear that the path through this be a diplomatic one : it be for Iran to return to negotiation and to recognise the power of the global community be absolutely clear that it can not have a nuclear weapon . it be good news that , reportedly , the Home Secretary have finally decide to proscribe the treacherous terrorist group Palestine Action . give that she have do that at great speed after the recent attack , and give that the IRGC have conduct or attempt attack on this country multiple time , will the Foreign Secretary use his power to persuade the Home Secretary to proscribe the irgc in its entirety ? I be grateful to the hon . Gentleman . the proscription question be always one for the Home Secretary . in relation to the decision that she have make today , it be important to stress that the process have involve all the relevant agency and their assessment of the activity . I have to say that the attacking of RAF basis be disgraceful and totally unacceptable , and the force of the law must bear down on that . the Home Secretary keep proscription under review , and I know that the hon . Gentleman have raise a long - stand issue . I thank the Foreign Secretary for the statement and acknowledge , as many constituent have this week , the intense diplomatic effort of his team in ever - change and ever - challenge time . but give the intolerable situation in Gaza , my constituent will want to be reassure that we will not let up on press in every way we can for more aid to get through and for an immediate ceasefire . I know that the Foreign Secretary say that last week and in the statement , but will he please underline it again ? I be grateful to my hon . friend . this morning I sit in my office with Eli Sharabi , who manage to get out of a Hamas cell but lose many family member during that journey . he talk about the starvation he experience — he go down to 44 kg , have be 70 kg when he go in . it be humble to hear his story and to be remind that the humanitarian catastrophe affect everyone in Gaza , but he do say that those from Hamas who be hold he eat plentifully while they watch he and other with he starve . give that there be a consensus , I think , across the whole House that Iran should not have a nuclear weapon , it seem that there be a lack of willingness to recognise that negotiation , after many year , have patently fail to yield result . will the Foreign Secretary join Reform and I in thank the United States and Israel for degrade the iranian nuclear weapon programme ? I have two conversation with Secretary of State Rubio yesterday , and I hope that he would say that we have establish a good work relationship over the period , and the hon . Gentleman will know that I have a long - stand relationship with Vice President Vance . to be clear , the United States ' position be that we be at war with Iran ' s nuclear programme . this be a targeted attack . it be important to understand the effort to degrade , but we have not yet have that assessment as to their effectiveness . Iraq show the grave danger of follow a right - wing US President into an illegal war for regime change . the consequence be hundred of thousand of dead , mass destruction , mass devastation , regional chaos and waste resource . many fear that the same thing be happen now , so will the Foreign Secretary confirm that any such war on Iran for regime change would be illegal under international law ? will he also confirm that he would oppose any UK involvement in any such intervention or any such war ? I be confident , through my engagement with the United States and the discussion that I have have , include in the White House last week , that this be not about regime change . I should remind my hon . friend that the Israelis too have be clear that they be not attack the civilian leadership in Iran . it appear that the House agree with the Government ' s objective that Iran should never have nuclear weapon , but the Government be prepared to will the end but not the mean . this beg the question : who be really run the government ? why do Lord Hermer ' s opinion on the legality of UK involvement in military action become public last week ? be it leak ? be it brief ? do this not demonstrate that the Government be paralyse and divide on this question instead of lead from the front ? no . I commend the Foreign Secretary for urge calm and restraint at this troubling time . I know that he have be engage with our european counterpart — notably with France and Germany as the E3 — but as the position of the US and Israel on Iran harden , do he agree that this be the moment when our relationship with Europe as a collective force for diplomacy and peace will be crucial ? it be important for the so - call E3 — the United Kingdom , alongside Germany and France — work with the EU ' s high representative , to make clear our concern about Iran ' s nuclear ambition to the iranian Foreign Minister and to urge he to come back to diplomacy . all of we be on the phone to he again after the action . of course there be an important role for Europe , particularly as the custodian of the JCPOA , and because we have a decision to make about whether we will in fact snap back and impose a heavy set of sanction on Iran if it fail to comply . last week and today , the Foreign Secretary say the Government ' s first priority be the welfare of british national , and I welcome that , but my constituent who be catch in Iran with her baby unfortunately receive no support from the Foreign Office and have to flee with official at the port and to evacuate to Oman . that be not a secure route and another ferry be bomb along the way . thankfully , she and her baby be now safe but be still make their way back to the UK without their luggage or any provision for the baby . can the Foreign Secretary outline what step be be take to ensure that british national like my constituent can be repatriate swiftly and safely if they so wish ? I be very sorry to hear about the position of the hon . member ' s constituent and her baby . it must have be immensely stressful for they to make their way out of Iran in that way . she will know that we have be advise against travel to Iran since 2019 . we be able to offer support on the border with Azerbaijan as good we can , but she will also know that the airspace be not open in Iran . if she get in touch with the Under - Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs , my hon . friend the Member for Lincoln ( Mr Falconer ) , of course we can look at this to see what learning there may be . I would first like to associate myself with the condolence to all those who have lose love one . we be increasingly see foreign leader not only flout international law but ignore our international rule - base system , which be hard - won after the second world war . what be my right hon . friend do to ensure that we can get this back on track ? it be very appropriate to meet the iranian Foreign Minister in Geneva , which in so many way be the home , under the United Nations umbrella , of the multilateral system and the rule - base order . we be with he as the E3 and the EU to reinforce message that we share with the United States and to try to broker a diplomatic solution , and we will keep try . this morning , the Foreign Secretary be repeatedly ask whether he consider the US ' s bombing of Iran to be legal . although I be sure everyone in this House recognise the brutality of the iranian regime , his obfuscation in reply be clear , as be the refusal to say whether Britain would get involve in any capacity if the US fall deeply into a conflict with Iran . can we have a clear answer from the Foreign Secretary now to that question , and will he clearly state that de - escalation must mean no UK involvement ? we have UK national in the region . we have UK basis in the region , and force protection be at its high level . we have several thousand troop in the region . of course their welfare be our priority . of course we have move asset in a precautionary way into the area , and of course we will work alongside our ally to protect they and to protect our people . I can give the hon . member that assurance wholeheartedly . we all share the Foreign Secretary ' s concern about get back to consider how we end the horror we see in Gaza and about get clarity on the dangerous risk that Iran present , but that mean ask some difficult question about how we get the negotiation go . we have see today that the israeli force have deliberately target the Evin prison in Tehran . it be the prison in which Nazanin Zaghari - Ratcliffe be hold . what conversation have my right hon . Friend have with the israeli Government about whether they be now move to target non - military installation ? what do he think that would mean for the ability to restart negotiation ? I reassure my hon . friend that I speak to the israeli Foreign Minister yesterday . I speak to he briefly again this morning , and he reassure I that the military target and the nuclear facility remain their objective and their focus at this time . away from the headline , as the Foreign Secretary say , hundred of Gazans have be lose their life . let we be clear about what be happen . as ten of thousand of people walk mile daily to beg for food from american mercenary , they be be shoot at random in the street . I think we in this House have move beyond ask the Foreign Secretary actually to lift a finger and beyond mouth the word do anything about this , but I have a wide question . do he envisage the UK play any part in some sort of consequence in the future for these outright murder ? I know the right hon . Gentleman ' s strength of feeling on these issue and acknowledge the consistency with which he have press they from the Back Benches . I reassure he that in the White House last week we do not just discuss the situation in Israel and Iran ; I also discuss the situation in Gaza , and our discussion be about the chance of a ceasefire . the prospect for that ceasefire be currently with Hamas , deep in their system and in their tunnel , but I remain hopeful that we will get a breakthrough in the come day and week and that the suffering that we be see will be alleviate . rise — Order . I be aim for 5 o ' clock , so if we can speed up question and answer , that would be very helpful . for a good example of that , I call Louise Jones . when there be US offensive action against Iran five year ago , we see proxy action take against UK and US personnel deploy in the middle east , where we sadly lose Lance Corporal Brodie Gillon . I do not expect the Foreign Secretary to give I detail , but can he assure I that everything be be do to make sure there be adequate force protection for those who be still deploy on behalf of this country ? I be very grateful to my hon . friend for ask that question and to be able to give that reassurance about our high level of force protection for all our wonderful personnel , many of whom I have meet , who be in the region . I thank the Foreign Secretary for his statement and also for emphasise the importance of restraint and de - escalation at this perilous moment . what step be he take to try to align and co - ordinate his diplomatic effort with those of our european and G7 ally , in the hope of present a united diplomatic front ? I have of course speak to our G7 ally over the past two week . I have speak to our partner in the region , in the Levant as well as in the Gulf particularly , and I will continue to do all I can . obviously , NATO in the come day will be another forum in which we can reach a common path towards diplomacy . as the Member of Parliament for the large jewish school in Europe , may I thank the Foreign Secretary for his early assurance on safeguard the community in this country ? may I also commend the way in which he have diligently pursue a negotiate outcome to this destabilise situation ? he know that it use to be say that the israeli Prime Minister jump to the tune of America . now that it seem to be the other way round , what action will he take against Prime Minister Netanyahu specifically , in order to stop the destabilisation of the middle east ? we do have disagreement with the Government of Israel , and my hon . friend know that a few week ago we sanction two member of that Government . but I remain , and the Government remain , a friend of Israel , able to work at many different level . we recognise the contribution that have be make to the degrading of proxy work on behalf of Iran that contribute to Iran be the bad actor on state threat globally . if Iran choose to close the strait of Hormuz , which the iranian Parliament have now vote to do , what contingency option have the Foreign Secretary work up to protect UK national interest ? I assure the hon . member that these issue be of course under consideration in the Government . all contingency be in place , and we be in discussion with our ally about that , but it would be wrong for I to go into operational detail . may I associate myself with the comment make across the House about the dire and despicable nature of the iranian regime ? that say , last week the Foreign Secretary tell the House that attack on Iran be not in our national interest . so do he believe that the strike lead by Trump and Netanyahu — two hard - right authoritarian with no love for a rule - base order — have make Britain or the world any safe ? or do he agree with I that , for much of the world watch , the message be chillingly clear ? in a global order where rule mean little and might make right , deterrence not diplomacy be now the only defence ; and that , as he must acknowledge , make global security more precarious than ever . I be grateful to my hon . friend , and I recall that he also recognise the problem of that nuclear threat and nuclear proliferation . an assessment have not yet be make of the effectiveness of that military action , but he will have hear my remark in relation to diplomacy . that be the way now , and it will be the way that we get beyond this current crisis . we have now be here for an hour , and still the Foreign Secretary appear incapable of say whether he support or condemn America ' s action or whether he regard they as legal , and nowhere in his statement do the role of international law even merit a mention . will the Foreign Secretary now take this opportunity to tell we whether he believe that America ' s unilateral action be compliant with international law ? I must tell the hon . Gentleman that I qualify and be call to the Bar in 1995 and have not practise for the past 25 year . it be not for I to comment on the United States and legality . I refer he to article 51 and article 2 of the UN charter , and he can seek his own advice . my right hon . friend be right to focus on de - escalation and diplomacy . however , we know that the joint comprehensive plan of action do not curtail Iran ' s enrichment of uranium , so what lesson will he learn as he rebuild the architecture for diplomacy to ensure that Iran can not rebuild its nuclear - enrich uranium ? with Iran enrich at 60 % and the International Atomic Energy Agency say that Iran have no credible civilian justification for that high enrichment level , my hon . friend be quite right . therefore , the debate have move on , and it have move on to zero enrichment . will the Foreign Secretary make it clear to the House that if the United States need to take further action to degrade and destroy Iran ' s nuclear capability and request to use Diego Garcia , Cyprus or any other british military facility , we will make sure that that be make available ? from my discussion with the United States and with Secretary of State Rubio , that be not their intention ; the right hon . Gentleman will have see that from the thrust of the press conference hold in the United States yesterday . he will also know that they be assess now what have happen and they be hope that it have be a target response and a single response . that be the thrust of what we be be tell by the United States at this time . I understand the priority to evacuate UK citizen from Israel , but advice to our constituent in Qatar to shelter in place until further notice be hardly comforting . may I press the Foreign Secretary to outline what more detail will be provide for UK citizen in the wide region and whether there be a specific threat against they ? the message I give early at the Dispatch Box be in the context of a fast - move situation and advice that be give by the US shortly before I stand up . of course we keep our advice update , and we be on high alert right across the region . be it UK Government policy to pursue regime change in Iran — yes or no ? as I have say , from talk to Secretary of State Rubio , Vice - President Vance and envoy Steve Witkoff , that be not the objective of the United States , and of course it be not our belief that it be for we to change the regime of any country . that must be for the people themselves . it be absolutely right to call for de - escalation at this extremely dangerous time ; however , the Foreign Secretary will know that the United States ' attack on Iran have raise serious question about violation of international law , and Israel ' s genocide in Gaza and its occupation and settlement in the west bank be of course also illegal under international law . so can the Foreign Secretary tell I if the Government still profess to believe in the international rule - base order , or be we now admit that we be content to support country that act outside it ? I refer my hon . friend to what I have say in the Chamber this afternoon . of course we believe in the rule - base order and international law . that be precisely why I be in Geneva on Friday for seven hour attempt to get Iran to comply and get back around the negotiating table . on the radio this morning , the Foreign Secretary tell we of his adherence to and support for the nuclear non - proliferation treaty , and use that as an argument for the bombardment of Iran . have he say anything to Israel about its illegal holding of nuclear weapon , its possession of a delivery system and the obvious danger to anybody of have a nuclear - armed neighbour who may well use those weapon ? what have he say to the Government of Israel about their nuclear weapon ? I recognise that the right hon . Gentleman have be campaign on these issue over many year , and have take strong position on nuclear proliferation . I do not want to go back to the day of Mordechai Vanunu , but I remind the right hon . Gentleman that Israel be not threaten its neighbour with nuclear weapon — it be Iran that we must stop at this time . do my right hon . friend believe that the attack on Iran be beneficial to this country or will they create more instability in the middle east and beyond ? as an upholder of the rule - base international order , which he say that we still support , be there a cost to the UK if the action of our ally — the United States and Israel — be judge to be contrary to international law ? I be very grateful to my hon . friend , who be learn in these matter and will have strong view . we be seek de - escalation and pursue diplomacy , and we be do that accord to the rule - base order and our belief in the international architecture that be set up on the back of man and woman who lose their life and give so much in the second world war . the Foreign Secretary have refer a number of time to the diplomatic off - ramp . will he confirm to the House that the diplomatic off - ramp — the request of the United Kingdom to Iran — be that the regime change its stance and finally recognise the right of our ally , Israel , to exist ? I can . of course the regime should recognise the right of Israel to exist , and it should work with the United States and the E3 , particularly , to ensure that it be put whatever have be develop beyond use . over the past decade , Iran and its terrorist proxy have effectively colonise five middle eastern country and use they as launch pad for attack against Israel . Iran have be goad and indeed prepare for a conflict with Israel for decade , include the genocidal intent behind its nuclear weapon development . how will the UK support our many ally in the region , include arab country as well as Israel , who be face similar threat from the iranian regime ? I remind my hon . friend that we have the strong of bilateral defence relationship with Jordan , Saudi Arabia , Oman , the United Arab Emirates , Qatar , Bahrain , Kuwait , Iraq and Lebanon at this time , and they can rely on we . forgive I , Mr Speaker , but I have to push the Foreign Secretary on this point : a lot of hon . member have ask he specifically whether he support the attack conduct by the United States , but he have refuse to answer that question . be that because he realise , like many of the british public , that it be an illegal attack on Iran ? as I say on the radio this morning and I will say again now , I will continue to work with our close ally to ensure that Iran never get a nuclear weapon . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s call for a durable diplomatic solution : no one benefit from the continuation of this conflict . will the Foreign Secretary outline what step the Government be take to ensure peace and prevent war in the region , particularly guarantee that the strait of Hormuz remain safe for our liquefy natural gas and oil tanker ? secure that trade route be essential for global stability and economic security , include Iran ' s . I be very grateful to my hon . friend for her question , because many member of the public beyond this Chamber will be worried about the risk of inflation and of an oil shock particularly . they will want to be reassure that the Government be do everything they can to be clear to Iran that it can not blockade or mine the strait of Hormuz — it must not do that . we will of course act with ally to prevent such an occurrence . it seem that we have be go around in circle for an hour and a quarter . in answer question , the Foreign Secretary have rightly point out that diplomacy have fail to stop Iran reach 60 % enriched uranium . likewise , he have rightly acknowledge that diplomacy have fail to stop Iran spread and sponsor terrorism around the region , yet each time he have conclude with a hope that great round of diplomacy will solve this . Hope be not a strategy . at what point will the Foreign Secretary acknowledge that there probably can be no diplomacy with a regime that be so brutal to its own people and just will not listen ? the hon . Gentleman be a bright man . he know that once a country have acquire the mean to enrich to 60 % , the expertise exist , and only a diplomatic solution can create the framework to eradicate and control that expertise . that be why , in the end , this can be deal with only diplomatically . it be also why President Trump be urge Iran to return to the negotiating table . as well as the iranian regime ' s threat to Israel , it have support Assad to kill half a million people in Syria , include Palestinians , and it supply Putin with the drone he be use to massacre people in Ukraine . we must also remember that the iranian regime persecute its own people , include human right activist . just as Ministers have , I be pleased to say , engage with syrian activist in the UK to hear their view on the future of their country , can I ask Ministers and the Foreign Secretary to assure I that they will engage with human right activist and democracy activist here in Britain to help to guide their approach ? my hon . friend ' s articulacy be spot on . I can give he that undertaking , between myself and the Minister for the Middle East . we talk weekly in this place about Russia ' s illegal bombing of Ukraine . Russia may not be a close ally like the US , but presumably if international law apply to that , the US bombing of Iran would likewise be illegal under international law . if not , can the Foreign Secretary explain why international law would apply differently to the US ? where do that leave we if this conflict escalate in the region ? I say gently to the hon . Lady that one should always be wary of moral equivalence . Russia invade a sovereign country and , for the last year , have be fire rocket into that country , aid by Iran . we will continue to stand up to Putin ' s abysmal aggression , and of course he should be hold to account . I thank the Foreign Secretary for his continued clarity that the UK have not be involve in this military action in the middle east . I also thank he and his team for all their diplomatic effort on de - escalation . I agree with what he say about the horrific situation in Gaza , where in the last week more than 100 Palestinians have be kill while starve and wait for aid . he say that he have press the US and Israel on this issue in the last week . be he continue to discuss it and to press for action together with France and Canada ? give his remark about UK citizen in Qatar , what can he say about conversation with the Gulf and Jordan on protect our citizen , asset and other there , should that be need ? I have liaise with Jordan and with Gulf partner , and I will be speak to the UAE later on today . we will work with they to keep they safe . my hon . friend be absolutely right to put on record our deep concern about those who have lose their life in Gaza over the last few day . I thank the Foreign Secretary and his Department for the work they be do to protect british citizen here and abroad . what do he think need to happen for Iran to abandon its ambition to build and deploy a nuclear weapon ? Iran have to recognise that it have lose its air defence , and it be my belief that its friend in Russia and China will not be rush to its aid . it have to recognise that its proxy be degrade , and that the international community be firm that it can not have a nuclear weapon and it have now get to come back to the negotiating table . we have to put in place a framework that deal with the stockpile , with the centrifuge , with enrichment to 60 % , and with the problem of ballistic missile . I thank the Foreign Secretary for his statement and for his level - head approach in call for de - escalation . he have speak about the threat of further escalation with the closure of the strait of Hormuz , through which — as he know — a large proportion of the world ' s oil supply flow . can he say more about how he will protect UK householder and business from a potential rise in oil price ? it be important that we de - escalate at this time and that diplomacy prevail , and of course it be important that we work with our ally for every contingency . I be not in the business of talk up fear of an oil price shock ; I be work to reassure the british people that we be do all we can to see that that eventuality do not come to pass . this House have agree that Iran must never have a nuclear weapon , but former russian premier Dmitry Medvedev have say that a number of country will now be consider supply nuclear warhead to Iran . what be the Foreign Secretary ' s assessment of that statement , and what be the Government do to prevent it ? it would be wrong for I to go into detail about that , but of course it have come to my attention . I also put on record my grave concern about the report that Iran ' s Parliament be prepare to withdraw from the nuclear non - proliferation treaty , which would far isolate Iran . further escalation in the middle east could have devastating consequence , not only for the region but for global stability . give the provocative and inflammatory rhetoric from President Trump and the risk of unpredictable US action far destabilise the situation , can the Foreign Secretary set out what step the Government be take to work with international partner to de - escalate tension and protect UK interest ? can he also give a definitive answer to the question of UK involvement ? we be not involve . over the weekend , I speak to my cypriot and lebanese counterpart , and in the day before that , I speak to all counterpart in the Gulf . of course we be work to de - escalate at this time . in the event that Iran do launch a retaliatory military strike against the US , what do the Government believe our article 5 obligation would be with regard to military support for the US , and how would that change if the location of the attack be in the region ? I refer the hon . gentleman to paragraph 2 . 13 of the ministerial code . with his 25 year of parliamentary service , the Foreign Secretary will no doubt remember when Tony Blair tell we that Iraq have weapon of mass destruction and be a grave threat to international security . of course , we then follow America into an illegal war in the middle east , and if the Prime Minister be to go down that same road , he would be wrong too . be it not overdue that the government follow an independent and , as Robin Cook memorably say , ethical foreign policy — one create here and not in Washington DC ? my hon . Friend allow I to put on record what a privilege it have be to serve and work as Foreign Secretary alongside a Prime Minister of such tremendous principle and legal learning , who entirely understand his obligation and what good government look like , and be absolutely steadfast in his belief in the international rule - base order . I thank the Foreign Secretary for the gravity with which he be treat this important topic . one week ago , he tell I that he have " huge confidence " in our ability to defend our middle eastern asset from iranian strike , but within two day , two strategic asset be vandalise by a couple of civilian on e - scooter at RAF Brize Norton . do he recognise that the UK must not follow trump into Netanyahu ' s war with Iran , when force protection be inadequately resource at home ? I be very grateful to the hon . gentleman for his service in the RAF . I refer he to the statement that the Armed Forces Minister will make to the House shortly about the security of our sovereign basis . just a week ago , we be here call for de - escalation because there be so many civilian death , but in the past week we have see an escalation and so many more civilian death in Israel , Gaza and Iran . we know that it be much easy to get into a conflict than to conclude it . if the justification for military action be now a nuclear weapon programme and be a threat to neighbour , how many other nation fit that category ? be North Korea not another example , but with an even more advanced nuclear weapon programme ? where be we in term of justification and article 51 of the UN charter ? my hon . friend ' s question go to the heart of why it would be a travesty for Iran to withdraw from the non - proliferation treaty and why we must work to ensure that it do not become a North Korea . it must never have a nuclear weapon programme , and we will do everything to stop that happen . the family of my constituent , Katie Solomon , have be in touch to share their fear about she as she shelter from iranian attack in Israel . my constituent Mehdi Moslehi have tell I about how his life in the UK start as a refugee from the iranian regime . can the Foreign Secretary tell my constituent and the House why , give Iran ' s record , he be find it so difficult to follow the Prime Minister in welcome the action of our ally in seek to reduce the risk pose by the iranian nuclear programme ? the hon . Gentleman will recall that in my Tottenham constituency , I represent the Stamford Hill area of London , which be the home of many in our orthodox jewish community , many of whom be in Israel as we speak , shelter in their bunker . the picture he paint be one that I recognise , and that be why I will do everything I can to work with they and protect they . I thank my right hon . friend for his statement . dozen of people from my Hendon constituency have be strand in Israel and Iran . I thank the Foreign Secretary for his hard work on this issue , and it be good news that the first flight have already occur . can he say more about the timeframe for potential future flight and what be be do to support those look to leave Israel over land border or by sea ? I update the House about our rapid response team who be work in Israel and at its border for those who can journey to the land border with Jordan and Egypt to leave . we have a flight in the air as we speak . I expect that there will be far fight in the come day , but it depend on airspace and on how those day look . I thank the Foreign Secretary for his statement in which he say that he have be crystal clear with the regime in Tehran . I hope he have be a lot clear with they than he have be with the House today , but I will give it one more go , because I genuinely do not understand why he can not answer this question . do his Majesty ' s Government support or oppose the US military action against Iran at the weekend ? his Majesty ' s Government will continue to work with our close ally , as I do last week in Washington DC . I thank the Foreign Secretary for the energy he have invest in de - escalation , because it be the only moral route out of this conflict . I thank he also for reassure we that UK force be not involve and that we have not give up on the plight face ordinary Gazans . there be 90 million people in Iran , just under 10 million of whom be in Tehran . there be report of many of they try to leave the country , and that will be make bad by the report and speculation on regime change . there be also report that Turkey and Pakistan might be close their border to refugee . be he keep a watchful eye on that , and have he discuss it with our international partner ? I speak to our ambassador and team across the region this morning , because I recognise that this be a worrying and stressful time in all those area . that be why my central message and task be to de - escalate . we need more light and less heat . if I hear the Foreign Secretary correctly , he say that the UK would act if Iran seek to block the strait of Hormuz . do he mean " act militarily " ? in what other condition would he consider military action , and what would he say if the Americans turn to this Government and ask they for support in any military adventure to do with this conflict ? it would be quite wrong for I to go into eventuality and operational matter at this Dispatch Box at this time , but the hon . Gentleman should be reassure that all contingency arrangement be in place to keep our people safe and to work with our ally to keep the region safe . the most in - depth study ever conduct of the casualty of the so - call war on terror be carry out by Brown University in America , which find that , directly or indirectly , more than 4 . 5 million people lose their life partly because of what be vote for in this House . do the Foreign Secretary agree that the only way in which this conflict can be resolve be through diplomacy , and can he assure the House that he will not follow the last Labour Government and the mantra of the former Labour Prime Minister Tony Blair when it come to America ' s bomb a middle eastern country — " with you , whatever " — and lead this country and the world into the abyss ? I can state again , as I have state throughout the afternoon , that diplomacy be the way , and I remind the hon . Gentleman that our government , and successive government , have learn from the Chilcot inquiry . why should the House of Commons , and those in the country that we represent , not be entitle to know whether their government support or regret the american action ? do not equivocation on that issue bring succour to those who we say must be rob , quite properly , of their nuclear potential ? I think that the people of Britain be entitle to know that we be not involve in this action , and that we work for diplomacy and de - escalation . that be why I be sit in the White House last week , it be why I be in Geneva on Friday , and it be why I be at a Cobra meeting and make a round of call to ally and partner to de - escalate at this time yesterday . can the Foreign Secretary explain to the House whether the United States feel unable to use the Diego Garcia base and have to refuel three time , in a highly dangerous operation , because of the deal that the Government do with the Mauritians , who would then tell the Chinese , who would then tell the Iranians ? the hon . Lady have to get off social medium , and she have to get some help . she be swallow conspiracy theory that should not be repeat in this House . the iranian regime have long be a threat to peace , democracy and human right , and the unilateral , illegal and dangerously provocative Israeli and , now , american attack have make a tense situation extremely perilous and be completely outside international law . it be therefore deeply concern to hear the Foreign Secretary echo the talk point of Netanyahu and Trump instead of stand up for those principle , clearly condemn the illegality of these bombing , and unequivocally rule out the UK ' s be drag into any military action to support such illegal action . why will he not do so ? I be focused on Iran ' s desire for a nuclear weapon , I be focus on the UK ' s solemn obligation to stop that happen , and I be focus on the diplomacy that be require to bring that about . I thank the Foreign Secretary for his statement . I have often speak in this Chamber about the iranian regime and the horrific human right abuse that take place under the irgc . I have nothing but admiration for the step take to destroy iranian nuclear armament by our american and israeli ally — step that we must support . will the Foreign Secretary confirm that the UK stand shoulder to shoulder with the US and Israel as they do what need to be do ? we must send a message to Iran that retaliation in any form will not be acceptable , and that it would face the might of the well armed force in the world — the british armed force . I can reassure the hon . Gentleman that of course we stand with our ally in the United States and Israel in face down the repeat threat from Iran . the threat to Israel be existential , and the Iranians be destabilise the neighbourhood . of course we will stand up to they . UK Modern Industrial Strategy with permission , I will make a statement on how this government be back british business and british worker through the launch of the UK ' s modern industrial strategy . at the outset , I wish to thank Dame Clare Barclay , all member of the Industrial Strategy Advisory Council and my official for their outstanding work in prepare for the launch of the strategy today . in an uncertain world , stability , clarity and consistency be need more than ever . the challenge we face require nothing less than a Government who be on the pitch and clear the way for private enterprise , and do so in the good interest of work people . that be what this pro - business , pro - worker Government be go to deliver . today I launch a strategy to make Britain the good place in the world to start and grow a business , base on a fundamentally new economic approach from what we have have in the past — a break from the declinism , the dither and the disinter that define the last Conservative Government . the strategy speak to the strength and breadth of our economy , be it build strong industrial foundation , power frontier technology , or support our world - lead service sector to innovate and thrive . it bring together every bit of Government to drive investment , improve the total business environment by draw on every Department ' s expertise . it be a plan to rebuild Britain through new job , new industry and new investment ; a plan to launch thousand of new career in engineering , life science , professional service and more ; and a plan in which Britain ' s future be design and build in Britain . I accept that until this Government come to power , british business be treat to a merry - go - round of policy change that be match only by the shuffling of successive Business Secretaries . we be now provide the stability that be at such a premium across the world . make UK have long call for " a funded and join - up long - term vision as a matter of urgency for stability and investment " — I could not have put it well myself . from the moment we take office , we say that we would pursue a new economic approach in which industrial policy would be do with business , not to business , and we be fulfil that commitment today . I place on record my thank to the thousand of business that engage in the process and design the strategy with we . it be not a document that will be print and then forget ; we will put the Industrial Strategy Advisory Council and the industrial strategy on a statutory footing to hardwire the change for the long term . this Government have bring stability , openness and a pro - growth agenda , but as I have tell the House previously , work people must feel the benefit of economic growth . we must go far and fast if we want to achieve the kind of economic growth that the public should expect , see in their public service and feel in their pay packet . business leader have provide a wealth of testimony and evidence on the area that they see as hold they back , and there be no surprise on the list . it start with energy , because we have among the high industrial electricity price in the developed world at present . they go up 50 % in real term under the previous Government . second on the list be skill , because when we have vacancy at the same time as one in eight young people be not in education , employment or training , and net immigration be at 1 million , as it be when we take office , something have go badly wrong . thirdly , there be place , because too much of the country have be hold back by crumble infrastructure and a lack of investment due to the north - south divide — and that end now . we will make the bold choice to ensure every region and every nation can play to their strength . finally , there be access to finance , because without access to capital we will always have a ceiling on ambition . today , we have smash through these barrier . let I take each of those four in turn , start with energy . today , we have announce that we will slash electricity cost by between 20 % and 25 % through a new british industrial competitiveness scheme . this will bring our price more closely in line with those in Europe , and it will be a game changer . we will also put in place the reform we need for business to get the much fast connection to the grid that they need . that mean company in sector such as car making and chemical will see their electricity cost cut . the scheme could benefit over 7 , 000 business with high electricity usage in industrial strategy foundational industry and high - growth manufacturing sector , which collectively employ over 300 , 000 skilled worker . we will also launch an expand version of the supercharger scheme , so that some of our large company in electricity - intensive sector — include investment of the future such as the new steelwork ' electric arc furnace at Port Talbot and the Agratas gigafactory in Somerset — will see their network charge exemption rise from 60 % to 90 % , cut their electricity bill and again make they more competitive than our european neighbour . although the previous Government promise that to business , they again fail to deliver . I confirm that this will all be do without add a penny to consumer bill or those of any other business . secondly , we be shake up the skill system to prioritise digital , engineering and defence skill , so british worker can secure good , secure job in tomorrow ' s economy . our industrial strategy sector be already on track to create 1 . 1 million new good , well - pay job with the help of this industrial strategy , and we want those opportunity to benefit all our constituent . that be why we be invest over £ 275 million in our engineering skill package and the skill mission fund to deliver training and new technical excellence college as part of our wide skill offer . through our global talent visa reform and the global talent taskforce , we be also ensure that UK business can recruit the good of the good from here and abroad . thirdly , the issue of place — the economic geography of the UK — mean a great deal to I and many of my colleague , who listen to the grand plan to level up that turn into a few extra flowerpot and empty promise . I want to be clear that this strategy be unashamedly ambitious . it choose to back place where there be cluster of high - growth sector , and it will work with devolved Governments , Mayors and local leader to boost that growth . we be make it easy to get money to place and turn investment into spade in the ground and crane in the sky through industrial strategy zone , which will bring together our exist network of freeport and investment zone . we will also , for the first time , include a new programme identify investible site where we will fast - track development , similar to the approach take in France . however , our infrastructure must match our ambition , so we will strengthen connection between city region and cluster through the Oxford - Cambridge growth corridor , the growth corridor across our northern city region , the Edinburgh - Glasgow central belt and rail enhancement in Wales . finally , we will unlock billion of pound in business finance , with the National Wealth Fund support our growth sector , an expand role for UK Export Finance and £ 4 billion growth capital for start - up and scale - up through a large British Business Bank , address at scale the key stage that we know be the most challenging . this growth capital will catalyse £ 12 billion of private capital across the eight growth - drive sector and deliver around £ 30 billion of additional gross value add to the UK economy . these measure , alongside our transformative sector plan , be how we can realise the untapped potential in key part of our economy . for instance , by 2035 we aim to double business investment in advanced manufacturing , increase the volume of vehicle produce in the UK to 1 . 3 million , while create the first european market for self - drive vehicle . we be turbocharge our clean energy mission with investment in offshore wind , small modular reactor , carbon capture , green hydrogen , gigafactorie , port and green steel . we will make our United Kingdom one of the top three place in the world for create and scale digital and technology business . that mean train 1 million young people in tech skill and expand our Al research resource by at least twentyfold by 2030 . we will significantly increase business investment in our world - lead creative industry sector to £ 31 billion , cement our position as one of the great creative exporter in the world . for our life science sector , our ambition be that the UK will be , by 2030 , the lead life science economy in Europe , and , by 2035 , the third most important life science economy globally , after the US and China . at the same time , we plan to double business investment in professional and business service to £ 61 billion , ensure the continue growth in a powerhouse industry that account for million of job in the UK , the vast majority outside London . we have already announce the large increase in defence spending since the cold war and will use this to transform the UK into a defence industrial superpower by 2035 , lead Europe in defence export and close the gap with the US by half in venture capital investment in defence . for our financial service , the heart of business investment and stability , we will harness opportunity as market digitise and adopt new technology , and ensure the whole economy feel the benefit of increase investment . the industrial strategy also ensure that place and sector can take full advantage of the UK ' s position as a global hub for trade . the UK have long be and will remain a champion of free trade , which be why , under this government , we have deliver trade agreement with our big trading partner in the world , the big economy in the world and the fast grow economy in the world , make the UK the well connect market in the world . through this industrial strategy , we be reaffirm our commitment to free and fair resilient trade , while shield business from supply chain disruption and market - distort practice . we will leverage our relationship with Europe , the US , China , the Gulf and beyond , so that business can make the UK their base to connect with global market . it will work hand - in - glove with the trade strategy , which my Department will publish later this week , to help british company break into new market , export more and grow more . this be a watershed moment . for too long , government have be a source of problem for british business , not a path to solution . the result , in part of the country where I and many of we here grow up , be that we watch yard and factory close , along with the door to opportunity . there be a sense that we be lose the past , but we have no bridge to the future . that also end now , because our plan for change be back this country ' s great asset and frontier industry to put more money into people ' s pocket , raise living standard and unleash a decade of national renewal . I welcome make UK ' s comment that " today be one of the most important day for british industry in a generation . " we be create a prosperous , proud and outward - face but self - reliant , independent and high - skilled nation ; a country where opportunity , skill and wealth be spread fairly , and where every person and every business have the chance to flourish . that be what our modern industrial strategy will deliver . our future , in our hand , build in Britain : that be what the strategy will achieve . I commend this statement to the House . rise — please be seat . the Secretary of State be very diligent , but could he let his official know that if the opening statement be to go beyond 10 minute , they should inform the Speaker ' s Office ? as the statement go a little bit long , I will allow the Opposition and the Liberal Democrats to have an extra one minute each . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I thank the Secretary of State for advance sight of his statement . it be always a good day when we can talk about our wonderful and innovative british business , but , sad to say , this strategy have take the good part of 12 month to appear . that be how long british industry have have to wait for this cut and paste industrial strategy ; 158 page mostly copy and paste from previous sector strategy and the science and technology framework , which do nothing to alleviate the pain and turmoil that Labour have already inflict . in those 12 month , Labour have crash the economy — [ Laughter . ] Labour member be laugh , but unemployment have be up in every one of the nine month of this Government , with hire and investment down . I understand that this document be print on 40 % recycled paper — very much like its content . yet there be no respite for business from the decision that have be take . the Secretary of State talk about restore stability , and that may well be what be write for he , but he , like I , listen to business , so he can not possibly believe that . the Government have hike taxis by £ 40 billion when they promise not to , and gilt rate be high today than after the mini - Budget ; they fiddle the fiscal rule and be now run out of headroom , all while set up state investment bank in a repeat of the previous Labour Government ' s private finance initiative . high taxis , high energy cost and more red tape on employment — the proposal set out in this document be simply insufficient at a time when business need far great measure to defend they from the minefield that Labour have leave out . there be many element of this strategy that we do welcome . I be pleased that the Government have continue the work the former Chancellor and I undertake on access to capital , and it be good to see an emphasis on trade and international co - operation , particularly with the document ' s focus on Japan and Saudi Arabia . I be glad that the Government be implement the o ' Shaughnessy reform and turn the NHS into a global platform health datum research service . it be encouraging to see the weight give to autonomous car , although it be curious that there be no mention of the opportunity of driverless train . I be disappointed that the life science and engineering biology receive relatively modest mention . there be a minor mention of skill reform , but there be no mention of real deregulation to our labour market and a near absence of reference to small business , which account for the majority of business and employment in this country . the big miss , however , be on energy . we welcome the Prime Minister ' s epiphany this weekend when he announce he would slash green levy on a certain number of business . however , the industrial strategy still talk about accelerate to net zero at a time when british business need the opposite . it be simply mad . rather than the Business and Trade Secretary — sit next to the Energy Secretary on the Front Bench — address the root cause of high energy cost , this Government seem intent on add to the web of complexity of taxis , levy and subsidy . there be nothing in the strategy about reopen the North sea — the energy reserve that lie under our own secure foot . it even compound the problem by impose further self - harm through a carbon border adjustment mechanism — a tariff by another name — which will cost business and consumer in this country dear . how can anyone outside this postcode run a business believe that Labour intend to cut the regulatory burden when it have set up new quango at the rate of one every two week , include in the Business Secretary ' s own Department ? how can anyone outside Whitehall look at the regulation take seriously the commitment in this document , when the Secretary of State ' s own Department be guide through the House 300 page of trade union - write employment law , which will force employer to cut hiring and job ? I will conclude with a number of question . if the Secretary of State can not answer today , perhaps he would be so kind as to write with a reply . the small business strategy be promise for the spring , but the summer solstice be now behind we . can he tell the million of business when it be come ? there be a number of live situation that the Secretary of State will be aware of , include the bioethanol plan in Saltend Chemicals Park in Hull , Syngenta move its precision wheat breeding programme to France , and the Government equivocate over support the stake in the vital low Earth orbit satellite operator OneWeb . do the Secretary of State agree that it be action , not word , that count , and will he impress that on his Treasury colleague ? finally , the strategy do talk about reduce the number of regulator , which be wholly welcome , as we need a marked cull in the number of regulator and their scope and size . will the Secretary of State commit to publish an annual statement show the progress his Government be make on that , and will he start today by agree not to create any new one ? so fuel by optimism be I today that even the shadow Secretary of State can not bring I down . have be in opposition for some time , I can say that , " this document be all rubbish and I welcome most of it , " be quite an exciting take on a response . the conservative party have manage to oppose almost everything that the Government have do in their first year , include , in my Department , the Product Regulation and Metrology Bill , which the previous Government be plan to introduce have they remain in office , and the India trade deal , which they be negotiate but could not get across the line , so I welcome the small bit of positivity in his response . everyone across the House should support the strategy . it be base on thing that will not be secret to hon . member who spend time with business on constituency Fridays and at weekend . they will be tell about skill , energy , access to finance and how local area should have the power to address the need in their local economy . I hope that the shadow Secretary of State would recognise , in good spirit , that many of the problem that need to be address grow under the Conservative Government . for example , the fact that energy bill become so uncompetitive be a result of action and decision of the Conservative Government . we be fix that problem , in order to make a difference . on skill , one in eight young people be not in education , employment or training , while net immigration be at 1 million . that be not a policy success . it need to be address . we need to address , too , the failure on the funding of course such as engineering . that be such an obvious need for our sector . finance be one of the long - run problem ; we be all familiar with it . the shadow Secretary of State ask a number of question , and I be more than happy to answer they . on small business , if he read more of the detail when he have a bit more time , he will see that small and medium - sized enterprise play a vital role in the creative industry and defence sector plan . to anyone who ask , " what ' s the message to business that be not in sector cover by the industrial strategy ? " I say that they will benefit from people have good job and high income . whether they be in hospitality , retail or leisure , they will see a direct benefit from the strategy . the small business plan will come out in July , and it will deal with issue such as late payment , business support and access to the kind of tool — rental auction and so forth — that will make a difference on the high street . the shadow Secretary of State attack net zero . that be a mistake . why would we turn our back on billion of pound of investment and all the benefit it could bring ? in particular , become a country that be not so reliant on volatile foreign gas price be an obvious thing that we would not want to turn our back on . he seem to announce a new conservative position of oppose cbam , which deal with carbon leakage and create a level playing field . I be surprise by that , because the previous Conservative Government be strong advocate of they . on the bioethanol industry , talk continue with the two plant most directly affect . of course , they be in a challenging position before the US trade deal ; the deal be not in itself the cause of that . they be lose money . if I intervene , I must have a route to profitability , and that be the basis of those conversation . we be committed to precision breeding . business that move to France would find a more restrictive environment there because of EU regulation , so I would not recommend that . on OneWeb , there be some specific issue , about which I would be more than happy to talk to the shadow Secretary of State . on regulation , we have already take decisive action , for example with a strategic steer to the Competition and Markets Authority , which have be warmly welcome by businesspeople . they ask I for more of that , and that be exactly what we intend to bring forward . finally , let I say , because I know that this be so important to colleague , that I be more than happy to offer a briefing to any Front - Bench spokesperson or group of colleague across the House . there be so much in the strategy that will make a difference and so much detail worth sharing , and I would be more than happy to do so with colleague . let we all get behind the strategy and get behind british industry . I call the Chair of the Business and Trade Committee . I congratulate my right hon . friend on the big remaking of the relationship between the public and private sector for a generation . the business community in this country will be strong and well for the measure that he have announce today . business will welcome in particular the huge investment in skill , access to research and development , and access to capital , but the game changer be the investment in energy that he have announce . cut industrial energy price be a way to get rid of the albatross around the neck of british business . it be a big promise ; can he assure the House that there be both the plan and the pound note to deliver on it ? I warmly welcome those word from the Chair of the Select Committee . I absolutely agree with he . there be so much in the strategy , but we be so uncompetitive on energy that whether action could be take have become a test of credibility from business . the kind of change we be talk about — a reduction of £ 35 to £ 40 per megawatt - hour by exempt eligible business from payment for the renewable obligation , feed - in tariff and the capacity market — will make a real difference . we be talk about go from be the absolute outlier to , today , be cheap than Italy and the Czech Republic and on a par with Germany . that be a game changer , and it have be welcome . we will obviously have to consult ; we can make the change to the supercharger more quickly than we can introduce that support . of course , we will have to set a threshold intensity test and make sure it go to the sector in most need of it , but we expect those to include the core foundational sector as well as aerospace , automotive and all the area where the competitive pressure be most acute . I be incredibly excited by that . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the Liberal Democrats have long be champion of the industrial strategy . we be proud that the strategy we introduce in government set out the Green Investment Bank , the British Business Bank and the regional growth fund , and we strongly oppose the Conservative Government ' s damaging decision to scrap our country ' s industrial plan . we therefore welcome the re - establishment of the industrial strategy and the fact that it focus on many of the sector we prioritise in government , include life science , professional service and clean energy . on energy , measure to bring down some of the high industrial price in the world will be welcome news for our manufacturer and energy - intensive firm , but we can not forget that business across our entire economy struggle with high energy price , not least our hospitality business and small and medium - sized enterprise . what step be the Secretary of State take to ensure that small business across sector have access to well energy deal ? will he look to bring forward the industrial competitiveness scheme from its current two - year horizon ? on skill , while today ' s announcement come with a welcome funding boost , it stop well short of the fundamental reform that we need , so will the Secretary of State accelerate the reform of apprenticeship and empower Skills England to act as a properly independent body with employer at its heart ? one key omission from the strategy be our world - lead agrifood industry , which have be relegate from be a priority sector to receive only a handful of mention in the entire document . I hope that the Secretary of State will admit that our farmer and rural community deserve far well . on trade , if the Government be truly serious about back british business and go for growth , will they show more ambition on trade with Europe and look to negotiate a new UK - EU custom union , which could put rocket booster under UK plc ? in the extra time that you have kindly grant I , Madam Deputy Speaker , I want to ask the Secretary of State about access to finance and about address inequality in particular . as chairman of the all - party parliamentary group on ethnic minority business owner , I have see for myself the datum on how much more difficult it be for those business to access finance , and similar data exist for woman entrepreneur . address those inequality would add a great deal to growth . finally , when will we see more detail about the National Wealth Fund ? I warmly welcome the hon . Lady ' s support . that section of the liberal Democrat manifesto be very well write , whoever be responsible for it . there be much that we can all get behind , and it very much make the case . the hon . Lady be right to say that the Liberal Democrats in government support the approach we be take . by the way , I have talk to nearly every one of my living predecessor across the political divide — not all of they , but the one who have do this kind of work and make a difference . there be some new thing in the sector that we have pick . the creative industry be a brilliant economic , soft power and cultural strength of this country , so it be great to see they include . on the timescale for energy policy change , I know that the people who recognise the burden want to see action quickly . I want to see action as quickly as possible . I can make change to the supercharger scheme and the generosity of it more quickly because it be an exist scheme and the intensity threshold be already in place , but the industrial competitiveness scheme will require legislation to implement it , and that will take more time , depend on how co - operative colleague be across the House . I welcome what the hon . Lady say on skill . skill will always be the no . 1 issue that any business raise with its Member of Parliament . I recognise the case she make about a fundamental reform . since the apprenticeship levy be introduce , employer investment in skill have go down , and that be not what any of we want to see . we will ask Skills England and the industrial strategy council to work more closely on what business need to invest in more , and we will ask they to report by the Budget to see whether we can take forward a more comprehensive set of change . the Department for Education own that part of the policy , of course , but this be a cross - government industrial strategy , as it should be . on agrifood , it be a subsector of advanced manufacturing , so the hon . Lady should not worry , because it be include . the only item of disagreement be trade . I would say that this Government be manage the pressure of international trade well than any other country in the world . the custom union that the hon . Lady propose would mean that we could not have the trade deal with India , which have bring down tariff on salmon , Scotch whisky and automotive vehicle . it would mean that we could not have the agreement with the US , which have save ten of thousand of job , so I can not agree with she on that point . I think we should have close trade with Europe , the US and the rest of the world . finally , I thoroughly agree with the hon . Lady on access to finance , and I appreciate that point . this be a core business and economic issue for the UK , not a minor issue . the level of finance that be go to female entrepreneur , for instance , be not sufficient . we have already explicitly back some significant campaign through the British Business Bank and I stand ready to do more . I recognise the important case she make . I welcome this incredibly positive industrial strategy that will help we to harness Britain ' s potential . the strategy rightly recognise that Stoke - on - Trent have be at the heart of the ceramics industry for century . therefore , will the Secretary of State outline what the industrial strategy mean for both our traditional ceramic company , which produce the fine tableware , and for advanced ceramic with a view to the future ? I very much welcome my hon . friend ' s comment in welcome the strategy . there be a great deal that I could go through . I would get in trouble with you , Madam Deputy Speaker , if I mention the benefit for every sector in the document , but I think we would all recognise the pressure on the ceramics sector through energy price — much of the industry be gas - intensive , and there be not policy tool for deal with that in the same way . only a small number of ceramic business currently benefit from the supercharger — I think only eight in total — which be why the test for the british industrial competitiveness programme be a different one . there will be a proper process to assess threshold and eligibility , but it be design in such a way that foundation sector — ceramic be very much include in the material side of that — would get the benefit of the programme . belate though it be , the announcement about energy cost be obviously vital to the steel sector . the Secretary of State be well aware of the situation in Scunthorpe . will he give an assurance that , for the foreseeable future , production of virgin steel will continue in Scunthorpe ? will he work with North Lincolnshire council , which have plan for redevelop the redundant part of the site , particularly in respect of an AI growth zone ? I thank the hon . member very much for his work . I think the whole House know of my personal interest in steel and the measure we have take , include the recall of Parliament and the passing of the Steel Industry ( Special Measures ) Act 2025 that be require to save his constituent ' job . he be right that the investment require in some of the most electricity - intensive opportunity of the future — electric arc furnace , for instance , be we to go down that route at Scunthorpe — require the kind of programme that the enhance supercharger level will get to because of the measure outline in the strategy . there be not yet a plan for transition at Scunthorpe . as the hon . member know , we have take control , but we need to resolve the issue of ownership . we continue to run the plant in a way that minimise loss to the taxpayer . that have mean put more money in up front to run it at full capacity , which I think he will very much support . we will continue to work with anyone in the local area , include he and my hon . friend the Member for Scunthorpe ( Sir Nicholas Dakin ) , to ensure that there be a bright future for the steel sector . I believe that will be possible base on the policy environment we be put in place . as Chair of the Science , Innovation and Technology Committee , , I really welcome this modern industrial strategy because it deliver on the promise Labour make in opposition to put science , innovation and technology and the skill they require at the heart of the drive for growth and industrialisation . I also welcome the strategy as a north - east MP because of the emphasis on regional growth and regional strength . my Committee find that one of the major barrier to regional growth and innovation be access to capital . the industrial strategy commit to double business investment by 2035 . will the Secretary of State say a little about how the north - east — just for example — might benefit from that ? first , let I congratulate my hon . friend on her recent honour . [ hon . member : " hear , hear ! " ] I know that she be not one for a fuss , but it be inspire , and it be great to see that recognition . my hon . friend be right that access to finance be a pillar of the industrial strategy . for instance , in the spending review , the British Business Bank ' s capacity be increase to up to £ 4 billion , and the maximum ticket it could write be increase to £ 60 million as part of that . we also have a huge increase in the capacity of UK Export Finance in the spending review — as my hon . friend know , the north - east be a huge export region and have the most positive balance of payment of any english region — and its direct lending capacity have increase as well . we now have a story on finance from UKRI and Innovate UK for innovative start - up , to the British Business Bank for scale up and maturity , go to the National Wealth Fund , and UK Export Finance support every part of that journey . that comprehensive offer be detail in this strategy document , and it will benefit all part of the UK , include of course the north - east of England . I welcome the announcement of Plymouth ' s defence cluster and the national centre for marine autonomy . I be proud that much of this work be be do in my constituency at Turnchapel Wharf and soon at langage in the Plymouth and South Devon freeport , and that it include Smart Sound , all of which be support by the last Conservative Government . indeed , this do not really need a special name as it be already happen . the Chancellor ' s spending review speech initially include mention of £ 4 billion for autonomous system split between three location include Plymouth yet , when check against delivery , this element be missing . please can the Minister clarify what funding be available for these autonomous system ' development in the strategy , in addition to the money announce for the submarine and continuous at sea deterrence programme at his Majesty ' s naval base Devonport ? well , I think that be a positive response to the industrial strategy . it certainly sound like there be some positive theme there . the hon . Member ask a reasonable , specific question about her constituency , and I will check that with official and write to she so that she have the correct information . if she have have a chance to look at it , she will see that the strategy include big commitment to the advanced manufacturing R & D budget for a whole range of sector . we be put in the money that perhaps be not as firm as it be now in the national finance , but we also have long - term plan in many of those sector around quantum , advanced manufacturing and aerospace 10 - year settlement , for example , to give the kind of assurance and consistency we really need , but I will get she the specific answer she need . represent Tipton , the birthplace of the first industrial revolution , I hugely welcome this industrial strategy and its 1 . 1 million good job . I be particularly pleased to see the Black Country single out as a centre of clean - energy industry . we recently welcome £ 45 million of investment in Eku Energy ' s new battery energy storage system at Ocker Hill in my constituency . the action on high energy price be especially welcome , and I wonder if my right hon . friend could give we more detail about how soon we can expect it to make a difference to business in our constituency . the birthplace of the industrial revolution be somewhat contest by several of we Labour mp , but we do not need a vote on that . my hon . friend ' s constituency certainly have a rich history and a great future for her constituent , who have be well represent by she since the election . on energy price , we all want action soon rather than later . there be some part of the programme that I can implement more quickly than other , and I have to do this in the proper way and let people consult on the threshold . in my Department , we be often deal with big inward investment decision or exist domestic business investment decision , and if they can have certainty as to where they will get to in a short space of time — many of these be investment that pay back over not just year but decade — that will make the difference . I believe that the benefit can be feel even soon than the programme can be put in place , but I promise I will stretch every sinew to get it in place as soon as we can . business have tell I how important it be to have a front door for public finance . the strategy reference Innovate UK , the British Business Bank , the National Wealth Fund , UK Export Finance , Invest Northern Ireland , the Scottish National Investment Bank , the Development Bank of Wales , great British Energy and the Office for Investment , so do the Secretary State believe that business know where public finance ' s front door be , and that this be as simple as it could possibly be ? I welcome the question from my honourable namesake . I hope he be not still get my email ; I get a few of his , and I try and help out where I can on those local issue . he be right : we have inherit a lot , and there be a devolved landscape to this as well . People often ask — we have a conversation in the Select Committee about this — why we do not bring they all into one organisation . it be important to understand that they play key different role . I can not remember what page of the industrial strategy it be on , but the different part of the journey those different organisation represent be specifically address . they be there to do different thing . of huge interest to I be the scale - up point — the serious business - to - consumer point . I think people recognise that there be a lot of capital in the world , but the question be whether it match the risk profile and opportunity of business in the UK . we all recognise the tremendous innovation in this country , but do we always get the long - term benefit of that scale - up happen in the UK rather than go abroad ? we do not , and that be what we be seek to fix . that be the fundamental mission that we be all unite behind . my hon . friend the Member for Aldershot ( Alex Baker ) and I have publish a report highlight the persistent scale - up gap for defence sme . I welcome the increase in fund for NSSIF — the national security strategic investment fund — but red tape be hold back investment in british single - use military technology , so will my right hon . friend look at clear up some of that red tape in order to supercharge investment in british defence sme ? I very much welcome the question and the work that my hon . friend have do . he have be an ally in ensure that there be no problem around the defence sector be see as a legitimate source of business investment and economic activity . we recognise why we need that in the national interest , but we should not in any way be squeamish about the contribution that defence make because the deterrence value be a fundamental contribution to peace , as well as to economic security . I can tell my hon . friend that the strategy commit we to double the amount of the defence budget that go specifically to sme , rise to £ 2 . 5 billion a year . sme , in diversify the defence supply chain and create those opportunity , be absolutely a part of this strategy , and if he have any red tape to show I that we need to get rid of , let ' s work together to get rid of it . I draw attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . this be the sixth industrial strategy announce from that Dispatch Box since " New Industry , New Jobs " by Gordon Brown in 2009 . while they have all be fill with a box of chocolate select by the Secretary of State , with his or her preference often underpin by a huge subsidy , not a single one of they have make any significant difference to the UK ' s growth rate , and that be because they all miss a particular piece of the jigsaw . I urge the Secretary of State to recognise that the Government can build as many road and bridge as they want , train as many young people as they like , pump as much money into the British Business Bank as they want , but unless they can find individual to take a risk with their own capital , they will not get any investment . unless these individual can see a return on that capital , they will not invest . I urge he , as we move towards a Budget in November , to work with the Chancellor of the Exchequer to increase entrepreneur ' relief , cut capital gain tax , and reduce the taxation on dividend so investor can see a return on their risk . I hesitate to say this , but I think the right hon . Gentleman underestimate the number of strategy there have be in recent year . it be certainly more than six ; we be at 11 in the past decade , or something like that . there have be six Business Secretaries in five year , which be certainly far too many . I think we can all agree that we need some long - term consistency in that area alone . I agree with the right hon . Gentleman ' s point on risk . that be one of the more thoughtful contribution I have hear on the low economic growth , mainly under a Conservative Government , since the financial crisis . we have to consider that attitude to risk in term of regulation . maybe our role as parliamentarian , when we ask regulator to fix every problem and stop every bad thing happen , be to ask ourselves whether that be the right balance , whether that be a reasonable request , or should it be — of course , with that in mind — proportionate to the performance of the economy . the right hon . Gentleman mention some specific measure . we have the low corporation tax in the G7 and a competitive tax rate overall , but we be always seek to improve that . we need supply side tool , fiscal change and a consistent long - term environment . that be what we seek to put in place . this morning , I visit Horiba Mira , which employ thousand of people across the west midland . it be a privilege to visit with the Prime Minister , the Secretary of State and the Chancellor . I be sure that the Secretary of State will agree that one of the highlight of that visit be the excitement on the apprentice ' face . after 14 year of low investment in the west midland under the Conservatives , do he agree that this industrial strategy will deliver opportunity for young people and the manufacturing industry in North Warwickshire and Bedworth ? it be a pleasure to see my hon . friend this morning with my right hon . friend the Prime Minister and the Chancellor . I be absolutely blow away by that facility , not just by the obvious " big name " investment from the company there , but by the young people in particular . of course , we be try to deliver a strategy for business , and that require business to have access to the pipeline of people , talent and skill that they need . within that story , there be so many opportunity and career for young people . I find that absolutely inspiring . have an offer for the kind of apprentice and advanced manufacturing we see today , alongside pride in our service and creative sector and what we be do on defence , be all key to ensure that there be not just the thing we need as an economy , but equity and opportunity for young people , as there should be in every part of the UK , to get the life that they deserve . while the UK Government announce a strategy that , as usual , barely give Scotland any news , the Scottish Government under the SNP have just secure Scotland ' s position as the highest ranking destination for foreign investment outside of London and the south - east for the 10th year in a row . while the UK Government refuse to see Scotland ' s potential , the rest of the world be line up to invest in we — think of what we will achieve when we be independent . do the Minister accept that the only obstacle to Scotland ' s success be the continue devastation of a Brexit that we do not vote for and a UK Government that stubbornly refuse to see Scotland ' s potential ? well , you can ' t please everyone , can you ? I be depressed just from listen to that question . on the substance of the hon . member ' s question , he be categorically wrong . look at what we be propose for clean energy and what that mean for Scotland . look at the new supercomputer in Edinburgh and what that mean for tech and digital . look at the creative industry and the brilliant opportunity there . look at the ambition on net zero and all the opportunity for investment in Scotland while cut industrial energy bill . of course , there be part of the strategy that respect the devolution settlement , as we would expect . skill be something we can only address in England . the money have go to the Scottish Government for whatever they want to do to take that forward . that be just the nature of a national industrial strategy that respect the devolve settlement . independence would be ruinous for the economy . it would shed Scotland ' s renewable energy potential from the customer base in England . I believe that at the time of the independence referendum , the SNP want a UK energy market anyway . if the hon . Member be be honest and candid , he would recognise that there be thing that come from the massive strength of the Union , come what may . this be a strategy that speak to build on those opportunity for every bit of the United Kingdom , especially Scotland . Scotland ' s economy could be describe by the eight high - potential industrial strategy sector in this document , so let ' s have a bit of optimism and hope for Scotland . I welcome my right hon . friend ' s statement and the doubling of business investment by 2035 . I particularly welcome the £ 4 . 3 billion of funding for the advanced manufacturing sector , which will directly benefit the AMIDS — advanced manufacturing innovation district Scotland — factory in Renfrewshire , which be in Scotland . can the Minister say more about how he will work hand in hand with the devolved Administration in Holyrood to ensure that the delivery of the strategy be tailor to local strength ? there be the true voice of Scotland — it be fantastic to hear that optimism and pride for the future . my hon . friend be right that there be huge advantage for her constituent in this strategy , which commit the kind of quantum of funding on a long - term , commit basis on R & D , which cut industrial energy price and do thing across the board . there be so much that be part of the strategy . if I be to break down each of those sector , I could be here for hour . you would probably get upset with I , Madam Deputy Speaker , if I read out each of the measure that be part of the strategy . as I say in answer to the previous question , when we be do a national industrial strategy , we — entirely rightly — have to respect the devolution settlement , and there be some supply - side area of industrial strategy that I as the UK Secretary of State do not have control over . it be right to reflect that , to build on that where we can and to work in partnership where we can . there be thing I would like of the Scottish Government . if we think of Scotland ' s tremendous pedigree in civil nuclear power , all that investment be deny to Scotland because of the policy of the Scottish Government . I have my frustration , but I will work together where we be able to do so to produce the good outcome for Scotland . I call Select Committee Member Charlie Maynard . the Secretary of State say , " the UK have long be and will remain a champion of free trade " — if only ! it be not on the big stuff or the important stuff . leave the EU ' s custom union and single market have reduce UK gdp by between 2 % and 4 % . the deal with India be good news , but accord to the UK Government ' s own estimate , it add 0 . 1 % in the long term — that is , 20 to 40 time small . UK export be down 13 % since the trading co - operation agreement take effect . that impact people in my constituency and all hon . member ' constituency . when will the Government move fast to repair the enormous economic damage of a hard Brexit ? I understand the point that the hon . Gentleman make . this be the question that face the nation at the time of the referendum . if a country leave a single market and custom union , there will of course be economic consequence , particularly when there be the free movement of people , but that be the decision the country take . let ' s look to the future , not the past . we could have this argument forever . we would have a situation where the business uncertainty create by never fundamentally come to a settlement on Brexit would in itself become as big a problem as the impact of leave the single market that he talk about . of course , if we be in a custom union without be part of the EU , could a G7 economy subcontract that area of policy entirely to other country and not have control of a key aspect of our economy ? honestly , I do not think that be reasonable . I appreciate the liberal position be almost certainly to go back into the European Union — there be consistency there — but I say again that do so would mean , for instance , deny we the benefit of the India trade deal and service access to India , the reduction of tariff on agriculture , whisky and car , and the benefit of the US agreement , which have save ten of thousand of job . I welcome the ambition behind the Government ' s industrial strategy , a bold 10 - year plan to unlock Britain ' s potential . will the Minister outline how the strategy will align skill provision , particularly vocational and technical training , with the need of our high - growth sector such as advanced manufacturing and clean energy ? I be get the impression that you would like more brevity from the Front Bench , Madam Deputy Speaker , so I will just say that the skill package will put more funding into course , and the flexibility require on those course that matter , with more capital funding for technical excellence college , while ensure that that be available to every part of the UK . I be glad to hear defence run through the Business Secretary ' s statement . will he tell we how much equity the author of the strategic defence review have in the compilation of the UK modern industrial strategy ? I very much welcome that question . the Ministry of Defence have be a partner in the defence industrial strategy , which mirror and be closely align with , as one would expect , the strategic defence review and the big increase in spending under this Government . I warmly welcome the statement . will the Secretary of State outline what measure be be take to ensure that town like Dudley — which be actually the birthplace of the industrial revolution — receive their fair share of economic regeneration and job creation , and that the current infrastructure in city be far invest in to generate growth ? I very much appreciate my hon . friend ' s question . she will see a whole range of tool in the place section that be available to both mayoral and non - mayoral area , which will help to shape local economic plan . she will also see measure to attract inward investment and to strengthen its voice in all the region , and a whole range of policy that speak directly to business . we be build on the tremendous history and expertise in her area ; it will be good news across the board . the Secretary of State will be aware of the future town fund , one of which be in Coleraine in my constituency . I want to see many more apprenticeship create through that fund . will the modern industrial strategy that he have unveil today be flexible enough to allow fund like that to utilise it to get additional resource , to make they even more successful than they have be so far ? there be part of the skill package that allow for short course , more flexibility and more foundational apprenticeship , which I think speak exactly to the challenge the hon . Gentleman put . if he write to I on any specific issue relate to the town fund in his constituency , I will get those answer . I welcome my right hon . friend ' s determination to reduce energy cost . he have hear about the need for that from I , from many other colleague and from industry , and he have act . the previous Government do not act ; he have grip on to this . I welcome that , because it will level the play field for UK automotive , include for BMW Cowley . of course , we also need action to incentivise domestic electric vehicle production , rather than the purchase of foreign - make electric vehicle . will that be include in the ZEV — zero emission vehicle — mandate refresh that be refer to in the strategy ? I thoroughly welcome my right hon . friend ' s question and thank she for all her support for our determination to make sure we have the competitive automotive sector that we all want . she be right that the change to the ZEV mandate be part of this . they be bring forward because of the press urgency — I be not happy with the situation that I inherit from the conservative party . we closely review the level of consumer demand in the sector and be always willing to work with she and the tremendous business in her constituency to make sure we be get this country ' s market to where they need to be . Consort Frozen Foods , which be base partly in Burgess Hill in my constituency , distribute ice cream across the UK . it do some distribution overseas as well , but I meet its representative recently because they really want to understand how good to access more market . what advice do the Secretary of State have for Consort Frozen Foods ? give the comment of the hon . member for Arundel and South Downs ( Andrew Griffith ) , I also wonder whether the Secretary of State would like to reflect on the fact that the hon . member ' s first role after be elect be as Boris Johnson ' s net zero business champion . well , I think there be no comment I can make on that . I would say , first , that I imagine that that business have be do very well in the last few day — anyone sell ice cream have probably see a pretty solid demand for their product . the hon . Member make a really good point , though ; there be a lot of support for export , and business do not always know where to find it . the business growth service , which will be part of the small business plan , be an attempt by Government to bring together a single portal of information — to digitise , with a single digital login ideally , all the interaction that business have with the UK state . I want to bring together our considerable export offer , along with the export academy and the expertise that we have in market , to make thing very clear , so that a Member of Parliament like she visit a business can simply say , " this be where you need to go . this be all the resource available , and I can raise any other issue with the Secretary of State . " as chair of the all - party parliamentary group for semiconductor , I welcome the formal recognition of this valuable sector in the new industrial strategy . I also welcome the plan for the future development of the sector , but as always the devil will be in the detail . I look forward to work with the Secretary of State to ensure that the UK semiconductor sector develop to its maximum potential in the next few year , as the essential foundation of so many of our vital industry , like automotive , aviation and cyber - security . will he commit to regular , ongoing discussion with the leader of the semiconductor sector ? I thank my hon . friend for her question and for her championing of that sector , which be significant for her constituency . part of the approach in the industrial strategy be to recognise eight sector that be very important — those that have an analytical base — and focus some attention on they , but it cover those foundational sector as well . as she have say , other sector would include steel , chemical , critical mineral , composite material , electricity network , port and construction . we need the foundation in place if we be to have the kind of success that we be look at , and I look forward to continue to work with she on that . this 138 - page industrial strategy highlight the key problem face british industry : high energy price . the Secretary of State be put in place some measure to reduce they , but surely he could do that early than 2027 by remove some of the green levy of net stupid zero soon . when will energy price come down for all of british industry ? I almost think the hon . Gentleman welcome part of the strategy there . that take I a little by surprise . yes , we be go to take decisive action to reduce the cost of industrial energy price . as I say early , there be some thing I can do quick than other — the supercharger scheme can be make more generous in the short term — but other require a long process . I will work as hard as I can to deliver that , but I hope he recognise that the core reason why we be such an outlier be our exposure to fossil fuel price , include gas , for both heating and electricity price . to be frank , instead of we go down a route where we will be expose to that in the long term , without the kind of ambition we need to make sure we have secure , clean supply of energy in the UK , I think the hon . Gentleman should listen to business a bit more . they would tell he everything he need to address this problem . business in my constituency be heavily reliant on great connection and make sure that our young people can access the skill they need , so I really welcome this industrial strategy , which recognise the many different aspect that go into support our local economy . can the Secretary of State expand far on what we can do to support well transport connection and a well skill pipeline for the young people in my constituency ? I welcome my hon . friend ' s question , which speak directly to the challenge we be face . as well as the action on energy bill , we will make sure there be a priority service for business to get the grid connection they need — one of the big barrier to investment — along with investment in skill . something that I be particularly excited about be that we be go to spend £ 41 million to make sure that there be decent wi - fi on every mainline train service by use the late satellite technology . if I be come to Parliament just to announce that , I would be quite happy , if I be be honest . hopefully the rail line that take I into my constituency will be the first on the list . there be much to like in the statement . I particularly like the reduction in energy cost of between 20 % and 25 % , but I would like to push the Secretary of State a little on that ; so that industry can plan , when do he think those 25 % reduction be go to happen ? Madam Deputy Speaker , my hon . friend the Minister for Data Protection and Telecoms have just tell I that it be £ 141 million , not £ 41 million , to put wi - fi on the train . it have be quite an exciting day , but it be important that I put that on the record . energy price be one of the fundamental part of the strategy . as I say , the supercharger can be put in place by the financial year 2026 - 27 ; the british industrial competitiveness scheme will have to follow a long process , include a legislative process , so that would happen in the financial year after that . I know how important this be , but once those plan be in place , business will have the certainty that that be the cost that they will face , and they can make their business plan and any investment decision base on that . I call Business and Trade Committee member , Rosie Wrighting . I welcome the Government ' s ambition to double business investment by 2035 , but on the Business and Trade Committee we have hear time and again from business that they face barrier in unlock the investment they need to scale up . can the Minister set out how the Government intend to support access to scale - up finance so that our economy benefit from our innovation ? I thank my hon . friend for her work on the Business and Trade Committee ; I always enjoy my session there , as do my ministerial team . she be right that finance be a huge issue and scale - up finance be a particular challenge . we intend to use the British Business Bank , as I have say , with much great financial capacity to work directly with fund manager focus on the scale - up part of the finance journey . I know how big a problem this be . there be a lot of capital in the world and we have get to address this particular stage , and these be real measure that seek to do that . I welcome that we finally have an industrial strategy for this country ; that be very exciting . on drive innovation , I absolutely support that large British Business Bank and make sure we invest in scale - up , although we need to make sure that it be about long - term investment and that there be incentive to de - risk investment . I really want to focus , though , on digital and technology business . as much as I welcome train 1 million young people , it be not just about young people . I have business like BT , Sage and Xero say they work with small business that need to improve their AI and tech adoption , so what be the Government do to support they and people of all age ? I thoroughly agree . it be an exciting day and the challenge be long - term consistency and reliability — which , frankly , this Parliament and previous government have not supply . there be a key voice from business to we that we need to address . Digital and tech skill be one of the prominent feature of the skill intervention in the industrial strategy in order to do what the hon . Lady say . it be a significant funding package and a significant partnership with business , who be tell we they want to work with Government and with young people and that they want to reskill people . I think there be more we can do , but this be the start . I be keen to work with the hon . Lady and any colleague who see the urgency of this work and the benefit it could bring . question be far too long and the Secretary of State be far too generous with his response . let ' s try to nip that in the bud . York Central , our big brownfield site , will release 12 , 500 new job in advanced and digital rail and the digital creative sector , as well as in the bio - economy mention in my right hon . friend ' s brilliant industrial strategy . will he , however , ensure that innovation hub at the centre of these cluster development be able to come on - stream and get the funding they need to unlock these site ? I be tremendously excited by the opportunity my hon . friend outline . there be many tool she will recognise in the strategy , include the funding for innovation and for local economic development , and particularly the new strategic site accelerator — for the first time , land assembly , get the grid and plan in place — so we have these opportunity for the kind of inward investment offer that we receive . my hon . friend have a very exciting local proposition , and I be look forward to work with she on it , but we need more of they . I welcome the investment in skill announce today . what seem to be miss , though , be a commitment to give wraparound support to the 3 million worker in the UK currently in high - carbon industry , who will need reskille and retrain in order to make the most of the green job boom . can the Secretary of State give we any information on what be plan for those worker specifically , and do he agree that the fossil fuel giant should be the one shoulder the cost of that support ? I thank the hon . Lady for the slightly positive tone of her question . I believe that the skill challenge for the UK be about not just make sure that there be opportunity for young people , but reskille people too . we have take forward some interesting measure inherit from the previous Government that will allow we to do it . I would just say to the hon . Lady that when she condemn people who work in what she call fossil fuel industry — [ interruption . ] well , perhaps " condemn " be too strong a word , but I ask she to recognise that we have sector of our own economy that be , relative to other part of our own economy , high - emission industry , but on an international basis they be very competitive . it would not be appropriate to simply outsource those emission to other part of the world and import those product . there be a lot of Green policy that , frankly , do propose that we do that , but that be not the approach that the Government be take . we be ambitious about those sector for the transition and this industrial strategy be key to make it happen . I warmly welcome this ambitious and exciting industrial strategy from my right hon . friend . align vocational and technical training to the skill our industry need be plain common sense . however , in my constituency business often tell I that they can not access the skill and worker they need , and young people and those retraining tell I that they can not access the course they need . have the Department speak with the Scottish Government in preparation for launch the strategy today ? yes , our official be in close contact with all our partner in all the devolve government . we respect policy difference through devolution , but the kind of thing we be address be of interest to every part of the UK . I congratulate the Business Secretary , the Secretary of State for Science , Innovation and Technology , and the Minister for AI and Digital , the hon . member for Enfield North ( Feryal Clark ) , on listen to I over the last 11 and a half month and include in the sector plan for digital and technologie the Golden Valley development at west Cheltenham . it will unlock £ 1 billion - worth of investment in cyber - security and defence , which be crucial to our nation . will Ministers monitor progress in planning and make sure that if a little extra support be need to get the infrastructure over the line to deliver that growth , it will happen ? I welcome the hon . Gentleman ' s support and the contribution his local area can make . in some area , we have a lot of good thing go on , but it need to happen fast and we have to make sure that we execute the plan we have in place . that sound like exactly the sort of challenge in this area that we should commit to . Ceramics UK have describe today ' s modern industrial strategy as disappointing and , candidly , I share the sector ' s disappointment . the one reference to ceramic in the strategy be historical and geographic , with nothing about industry . for month , I and my hon . friend the Members for Stoke - on - Trent North ( David Williams ) and for Stoke - on - Trent South ( Dr Gardner ) have be point out the immediate need of a sector that employ thousand of people in our city , yet today there be nothing on gas pricing , nothing on electricity pricing and no access to the supercharger scheme . instead , we be give an iou for 2027 . what message can I take home to those in Stoke - on - Trent this week about what in this industrial strategy will give they the help and the support that they need today , rather than have to wait for an IOU post - date to the year after next ? I say to my hon . friend that I think Ceramics UK be misplace in that criticism . ceramic be recognise as a foundational sector : it be part of the material foundational sector in the strategy . its principal request be about energy price . there be some ceramics business — I accept not that many — that get the supercharger and that will get the more generous rate . but fundamentally , the cost of a lot of those business do not match the intensity test , which the supercharger be base on — a sectoral and then an individual business test . that be exactly why the british industrial competitiveness scheme have be design in such a way that they will benefit from it , and that will be a game - changer for they . there be not the same policy tool around gas price , but of course we can see that gas price be project to fall from the very significant level that they have be at for future financial year . the industrial strategy have a commitment to increase r & D to drive growth . however , Wales have consistently miss out on its population share of UK R & D funding for year , receive around 2 % rather than the 5 % we should be receive . what be the Government do to ensure that Wales get its fair share under this strategy , give that research and development be vital for Welsh business to grow ? I absolutely recognise that , in all the initiative we be put forward today that apply across the UK , every area deserve its fair share of the funding . of course , many of the policy that I and the Department be responsible for disproportionately benefit Wales . under the clean steel fund , the money go to Port Talbot be much more than would be allocate to it by population share . that be because there be brilliant strength in Wales that I want to support . in this strategy — whether around aerospace and Airbus , or automotive and Toyota , or the creative industry , professional and business service , or financial service — there be so much that will benefit Wales because of the brilliant strength in Wales . that be something to be very optimistic about , and I would be very confident about what this strategy mean for Wales , while , of course , respect the devolution settlement . I congratulate my right hon . friend . with over 5 , 000 Macclesfield job dependent on AstraZeneca , I welcome the health datum research centre , the slashing of trial time and the focus on life science . will he set out how he be support Department of Health and Social Care colleague to far deliver for life science by finalise a realistic settlement on the commercial agreement over the pricing of medicine , and VPAG — the voluntary scheme for brand medicine pricing , access and growth — in particular , as that be very important to my constituent ? I welcome my hon . friend ' s question ; he be right that VPAG be significant to the life science sector plan and that the industry be look for resolution on it . the life science sector plan will be formally launch by Cabinet colleague to coincide with the anniversary of the foundation of the NHS . talk with industry be ongoing and we be try to find a settlement , which I believe be possible . we should all recognise the economic benefit of the sector for his constituency , which he carefully outline . I welcome the industrial strategy , but I want to push the Secretary of State on skill . Harrogate college often tell I that it struggle to access funding for technical and vocational training that meet the need of local business . in the next academic year — in just a couple of month — it will face a £ 90 , 000 reduction in the devolved adult skill budget from the new Labour mayor . will the Secretary of State clarify how the skill mission fund will work in practice for town like mine , and whether it will be genuinely lead by local economic need , not Westminster target ? I recognise the case that the hon . Gentleman make . some of the course that we need and that be central to our economy — engineering be a good example — be more expensive to put on and need great capacity . when I talk about a funding package , it be to deliver the business - lead , need - lead course to which he refer , and I would expect Harrogate college to feel the benefit of that . Rochdale Training provide local apprenticeship in engineering and other skill that we desperately need , and work with local employer to deliver that . its chief executive , Jill Nagy , tell I that today ' s announcement of £ 1 . 2 billion in extra funding for training be warmly welcome , as be the new foundation apprenticeship . will the Secretary of State join I in praise the work of Rochdale Training ? may I urge he to look closely at Hopwood Hall college ' s bid to be one of the north - west ' s technical college of excellence for construction ? further education have have a difficult time over the past few year and we be start to see the kind of investment that will make a difference . we need more business input into skill ' policy , which I think be the kind of work that my hon . friend be talk about . I be more than happy to come up the road from Stalybridge to rochdale one Friday , and we can have that conversation in person . there will be many bid from Greater Manchester for the capital that we be put forward , and I look forward to look at the bid that he mention . I commend the Government on reintroduce an industrial strategy , which be crucial for spread out good job across the United Kingdom . in my constituency , the hospitality industry be crucial to our local economy as it boost tourism , create job and help with rural regeneration , but it be struggle with sky - high energy cost . what be the Secretary of State do to ensure that sme in all sector of our economy , particularly pub and restaurant , receive well support with their energy cost ? this industrial strategy seek to deliver more inward investment . for example , Universal be make an incredible investment in Bedfordshire , where be seek to deliver the big theme park in Europe , create 8 , 000 job in hospitality . People should recognise that there be a direct relationship between what we be do here , what we be try to get more of and the kind of benefit that the hon . Gentleman talk about . we have set a target of 50 million visitor by 2030 , so such issue be represent in the strategy and , as I say , some of the issue that be not cover will be in the small business plan , which will come out imminently next month . as the chair of the all - party parliamentary group on critical mineral , I have an interest that I know you share , Madam Deputy Speaker , in critical mineral . I welcome the strategy ' s recognition of the role that regional cluster , like that in Cornwall , can play . give Cornwall ' s resurgent critical mineral ecosystem , what step be the Secretary of State take to ensure that the region be at the forefront of secure domestic supply chain , and that we benefit directly from that growth in green industrial job ? that be a great question . I remember our conversation about critical mineral , Madam Deputy Speaker . they be a key enabler and they will be even more important in the future . my hon . friend will know that some of the National Wealth Fund ' s initial investment have be into different critical mineral business in his region , because of the importance of that part of the UK to this strategy . we need more international co - operation on critical mineral as well , but he should rest assure that the British Business Bank and the National Wealth Fund be focus on this area because it be so important , and there will be big benefit to his area from that . rise — as the founder of labour : woman in Tech , I wholeheartedly welcome the industrial strategy ' s ambitious goal to scale our tech sector and workforce . on 15 July in Parliament , I be host WeAreTechWomen and Oliver Wyman for the launch of the Lovelace report . the report have identify that between 40 , 000 and 60 , 000 female professional be leave the tech sector annually or seek advancement opportunity elsewhere , which represent well over £ 1 billion of economic opportunity that could be unlock by well support our exist skilled workforce . do the Secretary of State agree that both inspire new talent and support great exist talent and diverse team , across all demographic , be fundamental to maximise return on our industrial strategy investment and secure the UK ' s position as a world - lead technology nation ? I thoroughly agree with my hon . friend . it be brilliant to see she in Parliament as she have be a trailblazer on these issue , and I recognise the case that she have put forward extremely well . I recognise that this be a core economic priority for the United Kingdom , and it be great to see she as an advocate for that on the Government Benches . I call Tom Hayes . my bronchitis be start to get to I a little , Madam Deputy Speaker . the CBI say that our net zero economy grow by 9 % in 2023 , and that it be 40 % more productive and wage in the sector be 15 % high than the UK average , so I be pleased to say that this industrial strategy be bet on a winner with clean energy . I be also pleased to hear the announcement that the Government will be slash the cost of energy for industry , but will the Secretary of State tell I , my constituent in Bournemouth and people across the south - west what the industrial strategy will do for the south - west ? I be more than happy to tell my hon . friend . we have breakdown for every region go to every colleague ; there be so much for each part of the UK that I could not possibly do it justice from the Dispatch Box . on his point about clean energy , there be so much money come into the UK — and more in future — that it would be crazy to turn our back on that . this be a major economic opportunity , as well as be about a safe , reliable , clean supply of energy for the UK , which be the basis of all economic activity . we can provide that while reduce energy bill for industry , so that be exactly the kind of consistent approach that this country have need for some time . with my apology for not call he early , I now call Jim Shannon . you be very kind , Madam Deputy Speaker — we get there in the end . I thank the Secretary of State for his statement , which be full of positivity . everyone here welcome it deep down , and if they do not , then they should : well do , Minister , and well do this Government . while I welcome the news that more than 7 , 000 british business be set to see their electricity bill slash by up to 25 % by 2027 , it be clear that much more support be need , such as a reduction in corporation tax , especially for business in Northern Ireland , which border the Republic of Ireland where the corporation tax rate be half of our rate at 12 . 5 % . will the Secretary of State discuss that with his Cabinet colleague in order to provide great support for our industry in Northern Ireland ? I appreciate the hon . Gentleman ' s support and kind word . there be a great deal in the strategy that will benefit every part of the UK . he know that I take my responsibility for Northern Ireland very seriously , particularly give the complexity of trade policy , the Windsor agreement and how that have to work for the benefit of everyone in Northern Ireland . he will know that the UK have the low corporation tax of any G7 country , so it be quite an ask to reduce it still far . however , I understand the genuine competitive pressure of be in business in Northern Ireland for people who be close to the border , and how they be affect by the mobility of capital and talent . we all have a responsibility to work with our colleague in the Northern Ireland Executive to ensure UK Government policy work to the maximum , and provide consistent and co - ordinate benefit . I be regularly in touch with my colleague in Northern Ireland and regularly visit . I be plan a visit right now — I might even look up the hon . Gentleman and make a visit to his constituency to address some of these issue . I welcome the focus in this industrial strategy on the Tees Valley region and , in particular , our clean energy sector , which represent some 8 , 800 job today and will scale up dramatically into the future . as I say in September , this will only work if we have alignment on skill . when do we expect to see the clean energy workforce strategy ? what step will the Government take to align skill into the future ? it be important for colleague to understand that the modern industrial strategy publish today provide a tool through which other non - economic Government Departments can filter their own policy decision , in a way that be consistent and to the benefit of UK business . for instance , the Home Office will publish its exemption to the more restrictive skilled worker visa in relation to what the sector set out in the strategy need and , for the first time , decision will be make through that lens . my hon . friend mention a specific piece of work by colleague in the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero on the workforce strategy , to which they be committed . I do not have a timescale for that , so I will ensure that I or colleague write to he about it . the prize here be genuinely join - up Government . to be frank , the preparation of the strategy have not always be easy , but it be the kind of consistent approach to policy , competition and competitiveness in the UK that be very important . I welcome this ambitious industrial strategy and commend the Secretary of State on the long - term thinking , which be something we do not see under the previous Government . East Kilbride in my constituency , Scotland ' s first new town , be bear out of an effective post - war industrial strategy , but over recent year my constituent have be give false hope by both the SNP and Tory Governments , with big promise and little delivery . will the Secretary of State give my constituent reassurance that this time , the strategy will deliver and we will get growth and job ? I will be frank with my hon . friend ' s constituent . in the past , government have produce document that do not have much longevity but have a lot of analysis without necessarily have real measure behind they . that be why we have launch this strategy on energy , finance and skill , on the power that local area need and how those programme will work consistently across Government . this be always about create the condition for the private sector to thrive in , but anyone look at the big challenge face UK industry will see they address in this document . worryingly , only 9 % of secondary vocational learner be study engineering , manufacturing and construction compare with the OECD average of 32 % , so I warmly welcome that this industrial strategy confirm a £ 100 million investment to support engineering skill in England . will the Secretary of State outline how that funding will help to meet skill shortage and deliver growth across the country , include in engineering city such as Derby ? Derby have an incredible pedigree in engineering skill . I agree with the case that my hon . friend have make so strongly . I have add some funding from my own Department to that from the Department for Education around engineering , because the shortage be so acute and the opportunity so great . these be great job , career and live for young people or anyone transfer into that sector , with more funding for the course , more flexibility in the course that can be run and more capacity in technical excellence college . although it be also about availability in all part of the country , we could not get a well pedigree than my hon . friend have in Derby , which be a great success story for this country and for her local area . I warmly welcome the comprehensive and business - friendly UK modern industrial strategy ; it be an investment in Britain , british people and british business . as home to the world - class and innovative defence cluster , Portsmouth have strength in maritime , space , drone , autonomous system and asset such as QinetiQ , Airbus , his Majesty ' s Royal Navy base , Griffon Marine , Portsmouth Aviation and Solent freeport . I could continue the list with many more brilliant business in my city , but time do not allow . will my right hon . friend say how " Invest 2035 " can work alongside future devolution and local government reorganisation to help unlock growth , investment , skill and job for Portsmouth business and resident ? it be very important that we show the british people that the add investment and huge increase in defence spending from this Government will see real economic benefit for they and opportunity for their family , as well as fulfil the core function of national security . my hon . friend mention devolution . we have measure in the strategy for local area , whether or not they have mayoral lead on innovation and mayoral growth fund , many of which build on the very successful work of Andy Burnham , my labour mayor in Greater Manchester , and Richard Parker in the west midland , who have do brilliant thing . those be the most developed and mature mayoral area . we can see what have work in those place , and it really be start to work . let we have more of that across every bit of the UK , tailor for local need and with the right tool that those political leader need . I welcome this incredibly ambitious industrial strategy . I will ask specifically about our high - tech sme . at NETPark in Sedgefield , we have a cluster of more than 40 business make satellite component , medical imaging equipment and other high - tech product . however , as the Secretary of State know , too often they struggle to get private finance , and they have struggle in the past to get Government innovation funding . how will this strategy really put the rocket booster behind high - tech sme in region such as the north - east ? I always take a close interest in success story from the north - east of England , and what my hon . friend outline be incredibly exciting . the high - tech SME cluster that he talk about will benefit in many way from each of the sector plan , whether they be in advanced manufacturing , creative industry or defence . there be provision on access to finance for they in this strategy and the dedication of resource from the defence budget , for instance , for that sector . those business be set to fly , and with this industrial strategy my hon . friend have a real chance to build and communicate the opportunity for they over the next few year . I really warmly welcome the modern industrial strategy , particularly all that it have to offer for Scotland . I also welcome the Business Secretary ' s personal enthusiasm and energy about the potential for growth in Scotland — what a contrast with the SNP , which can not help but talk Scotland down . I particularly welcome the good news for skill and innovation , which will benefit Scotland , and for reduced energy cost , particularly electricity cost , for our key manufacture site in Scotland . as I have discuss with my right hon . friend , the ethylene plant at Mossmorran be a large employer in my constituency , support hundred of high - skilled , well - pay job in Fife . will the Business Secretary outline how this industrial strategy and other Government action will back the chemical industry and the job it support ? I think it be about a year ago when my hon . friend and I be on the campaign trail in her constituency and visit business with the message that we would implement a strategy of this kind . I think that the scottish economy , when map against our eight industrial strategy sector , could be a description of scottish success , and we should be excited about that . the ethylene cracker at Mossmorran be a very important facility . as my hon . friend will know , high gas price across Europe mean that all the cracker across Europe be under some degree of distress . I have be in conversation with my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Scotland about that and other cracker in Scotland that be affect by those high gas price , and we continue that work . more generally , the chemical sector be recognise as a key foundational sector in this strategy . it have have a lot of pressure in recent year , and we be seek to improve that business environment . this be mint for british industry . in my region , we have a proud history of make world - class product and export . we make train , and this Government have secure the future of Hitachi at Aycliffe . we make car , and this Government have negotiate a tariff deal to protect the Nissan plant in Sunderland . we make hugely advanced bioindustry product , such as the covid - 19 vaccine , at the Centre for Process Innovation in my constituency in Darlington . as the chair of the APPG on industrial strategy , I know that the finance solution and energy subsidy will be roundly welcome by business up and down the country . will the Secretary of State outline how this strategy will lead to more highly pay , highly skilled job opportunity for worker in constituency such as mine who have see more plant shut than save over the last 14 year ? I thoroughly thank my hon . friend for her question and for all her work in her role in Parliament advocate for these issue . there be a huge amount in this strategy for the sector that she outline . I be very proud of the work that we do with Hitachi . on car , it be about the tariff , the Drive 35 programme , energy cost and the ZEV mandate , and we will make any change that we need for a competitive position . this be fundamentally about what business need , but it be also about well - pay job in every part of the UK . my hon . friend ' s part of the world in particular will stand to benefit considerably from this programme . I congratulate the Secretary of State on the ambition of this industrial strategy and invite he to visit Cody technology park in Farnborough , which be home to world - class defence and aerospace innovation , from QinetiQ ' s development of DragonFire to one of only two commercial wind tunnel in the world . what role do he see for place such as Cody , which be already contribute but have the potential to do even more to help to create job and fire up our industrial base ? it be brilliant to hear from my hon . friend ; she have so much to be proud of in her constituency . I have visit Farnborough on several occasion , and it have a range of thing that be directly represent in this strategy . I also thank she for be a huge ally on the work that we have do on access to finance for the defence sector , which have be an important message for we to send out about national security and the huge economic opportunity that rightly should come from the increase in defence spending that this Government have commit to already . the Black Country have be an industrial powerhouse for hundred of year ; it be famous for make everything from the glass in the White House to the Big Ben clocktower and the chemical odorant that people will smell when they turn on the gas hob . will the Secretary of State set out how this 10 - year plan for industry will support Black Country manufacturing business with low energy price and upskill the next generation of people for these highly skilled , well - pay job ? would he like to visit one of my brilliant business in West Bromwich ? I certainly would love to visit — I be happy to commit to that . I be surprised that my hon . friend do not claim her constituency to be the birthplace of the industrial revolution , because I think a few colleague have go there , and she have a claim to it as well . whether it be fund for low energy cost , skill in the pipeline for young people , access to finance , a regulatory environment that foster growth or expand make Smarter , which be a fantastic programme that we will have more of , there be so much in this strategy that will make a difference to her area . perhaps we will go and visit some business together and take that message to they . the industrial strategy rightly recognise the role of ceramic as a key foundational industry and , of course , the central role of Stoke - on - Trent not just historically but in the exciting new world of advanced ceramic — provide part for wind turbine and even small modular reactor , if we get the investment our way . as the Secretary of State have mention , ceramic have the additional challenge of be a gas - intensive industry . as such , I welcome the Government ' s commitment to the energy - intensive industry compensation scheme — a snappy name would be nice — particularly in support decarbonisation and technological innovation . may I ask the Secretary of State what specific support be plan to aid the ceramics industry , not only in manage its energy cost but in support its decarbonisation ? I thank my hon . friend for her question . she have already hear I outline the eligibility , and the foundational role that ceramic play in the strategy and the support it can receive . she be also right that we have commit to the energy - intensive industry compensation scheme review that the industry want . we should all recognise that the ceramics sector face more challenge with decarbonisation than some other sector , and we have to be a supportive partner in that , particularly by recognise some of the technological limitation that currently exist . as I say in answer to a previous question , we have to look at where we be — perhaps we have high emission from a sector , but where be that sector internationally ? would it be in our interest to see those emission export abroad and emission as a whole go up ? I do not think it would . that be the approach I will always take to the ceramics sector or any other sector to ensure that we be do the right thing , both for the climate and for british job and british industry . I call Jacob Collier . [ interruption . ] I call Scott Arthur . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . the hon . Member and I must look alike . I refer member to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . not that long ago , we have a Scottish Government in which some Cabinet member do not even believe in economic growth , so the contrast with what we have hear today could not be starker . there be 16 mention of Scotland ' s capital city in the industrial strategy , and a key one for Edinburgh South West be Heriot - Watt University ' s national robotarium — the birthplace of robotic , as far as I be concern — but it would be interesting to understand where the Secretary of State think university fit into the industrial strategy , give the pressure that they face in England and the many university in crisis in Scotland . my hon . friend raise some very important and serious question . university play a huge role in innovation and be a vital part of the cluster we be create , but in themselves , they be something of which we should be incredibly proud . we have a world - class university sector , and every parliamentarian should be prouder of that . I do not have time to go into the detail that I would like , but university be at the heart of our approach to innovation and economic success across the UK . my constituency boast some of the nation ' s most energy - intensive industry , from manufacture to be the home of UK brewing . as such , I welcome the news that there will be energy subsidy for energy - intensive industry , which will support those industry and local job in my constituency . can the Secretary of State say more about how he will work across Government to ensure that manufacturer and brewer will not be pay champagne price for power ? I recognise that there be some regulatory issue that my hon . friend be probably ask about , particularly in relation to the lead that the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs would have on extend producer responsibility and some other aspect . I be always keen to work with colleague across Government , and I will ensure that my hon . friend get the answer to his question that he need , but he be right to say that there be many opportunity for business — big and small — and for his constituent in this plan . as an engineer , I be incredibly excited by the vision of engineering , industrial and innovation renewal that the Secretary of State be describe . in Worcester , we have a mission to make ourselves the good city in the good country in the world to start and grow a business . time and again , though , the fund and research facility intend to support innovation have not work for our local business , and there have be a lack of support for mid - technology readiness level technology . how will this strategy help business across the country to bridge the valley of death and grow in this decade of renewal ? I thank my hon . friend for his question , which I greatly appreciate . worcester play a wonderful role in our economy , and it be great to hear about that level of local ambition from he and other local leader . there be specific fund to support innovation : £ 500 million have be allocate for innovation , which will be split among area up and down the country . the access to finance provision will also apply to his constituency , whether that be the British Business Bank have more firepower and more ability to support the kind of item that he have in his constituency , the beef - up capacity for UK export finance , or the National Wealth Fund work hand in hand with the private sector . the brilliance that my hon . friend have in Worcester be exactly the kind of platform that stand to benefit greatly from the measure in the industrial strategy . UK Military Base Protection Members will be aware of the news break in Qatar , with report of explosion at 19 . 35 pm local time . this be a fast - change situation , and we be monitor it closely . member will also understand that I will not be able to give detail at this stage , but the UK Government utterly condemn any escalation . we have put force protection measure at their high level to safeguard our personnel in the region . we have robust measure in place to protect our armed force personnel , and their safety be our top priority . that be why we have be call for de - escalation and diplomacy . Mr Deputy Speaker , I be sure you will understand that I will try to keep this statement short , so that I can return to the Department to be fully brief . however , there be a number of development that I wish to update the House about in the meantime . early today , the Foreign Secretary make a statement update the House on the military action undertake by the United States , which conduct airstrike against three iranian nuclear facility : Fordow , Natanz and Isfahan . no british force be involve in those US strike , but the UK and the US share an ambition that Iran can never be allow to develop a nuclear weapon , and the US have take action to alleviate that threat . America be the UK ' s close defence and security ally , and our military will continue to work in lockstep every day . as the Foreign Secretary say , this be a critical moment for the middle east . it follow a period of escalate conflict in an already volatile region . yesterday , my right hon . and learn Friend the Prime Minister urge Iran to return to the negotiating table and reach a diplomatic solution to end this crisis , and I echo that call . there be no route of iranian military retaliation that bring this crisis to an end ; the only off - ramp for Iran be to get serious and return to diplomacy . the Ministry of Defence ' s no . 1 priority have be the protection of our people and our basis in the region . work alongside the Chief of the Defence Staff , Ministers have direct commander to take all necessary measure to protect our servicemen and woman . force protection be now at its high state across all deploy unit in the middle east . the additional RAF Typhoon jet announce by the Prime Minister have now arrive in the region to reinforce our posture , deter threat , and reassure our partner . I want to be clear that we will not rule out send further capability if they be require , and that we will take all step necessary to protect our people and our asset . as we recognise in the strategic defence review , we must always put our people at the heart of our defence plan , which be why we have act swiftly to bolster our defence and ensure our force be support and protect . I thank all our outstanding personnel who have work tirelessly over the past few day — often with little sleep — to support the UK ' s response , both at home and abroad . far to medium report over the weekend , I can confirm that we be in contact with the authority in Cyprus regard the arrest of a british man . due to the ongoing police investigation , I be limited in what I can say , but I can tell the House that RAF Akrotiri be not breach . we be continually monitor this fast - change situation , and stand ready to respond to any threat . I now turn to the protection of our basis at home . last week ' s illegal entry and criminal vandalism by the group Palestine Action at RAF Brize Norton be disgraceful . I can confirm that two RAF Voyager aircraft be damage by paint , but there be no further damage to infrastructure or asset , nor have there be any impact on plan operation from Brize Norton . not only be this action epically stupid ; it be a direct attack on our national security . our personnel station at RAF Brize Norton serve with total dedication and professionalism . they work tirelessly to support our armed force deploy across the world and to deliver military assistance to Ukraine , and have be formally recognise for their contribution in fly humanitarian aid into Gaza . as such , this action do nothing to further the path to peace . it do nothing to further the palestinian cause — it do nothing to further any cause — and everyone across the House be unite in condemn it . this must never happen again . I speak early today with the Chief of the Defence Staff and the Chief of the Air Staff about this incident . enhance security measure across the whole of defence have be put in place since Friday , include on aircraft and airfield - operate surface . RAF patrol have increase , physical security have be improve at the suspect point of entry at Brize Norton and the Defence Secretary have order that a full security review be conduct at pace , not only at Brize , but across the defence estate . Counter Terrorism Policing South East and Thames Valley police be lead the investigation to establish the exact circumstance of the event and to identify those responsible . we will continue to work with the police and pursue those responsible for this unacceptable act of vandalism . this incident be subject to a live counter - terrorism investigation , so I hope the House will understand that I can not provide any further detail at this time . this be more than just disruption . Palestine Action ' s activity have increase in frequency and severity . its method have become more aggressive , with its member demonstrate a willingness to use violence . its activity meet the threshold set out in the statutory test establish under the Terrorism Act 2000 , and that be why the Home Secretary be today announce that she intend to proscribe Palestine Action . the instability in the middle east and the continued war in Ukraine show why this week ' s NATO leader ’ summit in the Hague matter . we be live in a more dangerous and unpredictable world . this summit be a moment where NATO ally will pledge to step up on defence spending to boost our collective security . President Trump and NATO chief Mark Rutte be right that the current NATO spending pledge of at least 2 % of gdp on defence be a relic of an old era . we be in a new era of threat , which demand a new era for defence and defence spending . that be why the Government announce the big sustained increase in defence spending since the end of the cold war . it be why this week at NATO we will discuss a new , high spending target with our ally . the United Kingdom be up for that discussion . we will make Britain safe — secure at home and strong abroad . I commend this statement to the House . rise — order . as be the custom , the Minister ' s statement will be circulate to both side of the House , but before we proceed , member will notice that it will not be complete , in the sense that the Minister deliver a preamble prior to go into what will be circulate . that be to try to reflect the fast - move nature of the situation . I understand that , courteously and properly , the Front Benchers have be inform of that . I hope that everybody understand that and will make allowance for it . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I be grateful to the Minister for advance sight of his statement , and I entirely understand that it be a fast - move situation in relation to Qatar . I be grateful for the limited update that he could provide . we join he in condemn any escalation and look forward to further update in due course . on Brize Norton , let I say what the Minister be unable to : the attack on RAF Brize Norton be not vandalism ; this be sabotage , undertake without regard to the consequence for our Royal Air Force and our ability to defend our nation . as a result , there must be consequence for those responsible . can the Minister explain how on earth these saboteur be able not only to break through the perimeter fence , but to cover a considerable distance to reach the precious airfield tarmac , inflict damage to our airframe and then get out of the base , all without be intercept ? what step be he take to ensure rapid reinforcement of perimeter and internal fencing , not just at the specific point of incursion at Brize Norton , as he describe , but throughout the base and at all other UK basis ? what be he do to ensure sufficient military policing personnel be in place to enforce security and that they have access to effective countermeasure technology ? on the drone threat , which be relevant , the Minister know how quickly military technology be move . in December , I ask he in a write question about the protection of UK basis , and ask whether he would accelerate testing of direct energy weapon , such as laser , for drone interception on our military basis . he say that work be in development . what progress have he make in the six month since ? the protection of our basis be not just a priority on the UK mainland . give the confirmation of report that a man allegedly link to Iran have be arrest on suspicion of espionage and terrorism offence in Cyprus , can the Minister confirm that all measure be take to reinforce UK basis will be replicate with the same urgency throughout our overseas basing , Akrotiri in particular ? can the Minister confirm what will be the financial cost and impact of this attack on the RAF ? in particular , can he explain the immediate operational impact on the RAF ? he say there have be no impact on plan operation from Brize Norton , but he will know that it could still mean that task line be unintentionally reallocate to cover for the damage aircraft . how long will the two aircraft in question be out of action for , if at all , and what have be the wide operational impact ? turn to the perpetrator , what progress have be make on catch those responsible and have there be any arrest ? do the Minister agree that one way to defend our basis be to deter future incursion by ensure that the full force of the law be feel by the individual saboteur in question ? will he ensure that everything be do to work with the Crown Prosecution Service to ensure that the offender receive an appropriately robust response ? I note , for example , that section 1 of the Aviation and Maritime Security Act 1990 provide for an offence of action that can " endanger the safe operation " of aircraft , carry a maximum sentence of life imprisonment . section 12 of the National Security Act 2023 relate to sabotage , and again the offence carry a penalty of up to life imprisonment . the review be welcome , but it need to report urgently . can the Minister confirm who will lead it and how quickly it will report ? on the important issue of personnel , will the review consider how responsibility for the security of RAF basis be divide between RAF police , the RAF regiment , military provost guard service and private contractor ? I join the Minister in condemn Palestine Action without reservation . its role in this attack on the Royal Air Force be totally unacceptable , and we welcome the step take to proscribe that organisation today . I also welcome the Minister ' s commitment to strengthen force protection more widely in the middle east , include through the deployment of RAF Typhoons , and particularly in light of the break news in Qatar . to conclude , the Minister be entirely right that the MOD ' s priority at this time must be the protection of our people and basis in the region . in his opening remark about the airstrike against three iranian nuclear facility and , indeed , throughout multiple questioning in his medium round today , it be totally unclear whether the Government support or oppose those US airstrike . the Minister be ask seven time on LBC whether the Government support or oppose US military action . he fail to answer once . he be now in front of Parliament . these be matter of the utmost importance to the security of our nation , and he be the Minister for the Armed Forces be ask about the action of the armed force of our close military ally . I will conclude with a straight question : do he support the US bombing of iranian nuclear facility — yes or no ? I thank the hon . gentleman for the tone in which he have ask his question and for his support for armed force personnel . it be important at this time that this House send a united message that we will protect our people wherever they be in the world , but especially those serve to keep we safe and to keep our ally safe in the middle east . on the hon . Gentleman ' s question , I agree with he . I expect strong consequence for those responsible for the damage to our RAF Voyager aircraft at Brize Norton . the investigation be proceed . a number of investigation be under way , include the one commission by the Defence Secretary to look into what happen at Brize Norton and to learn the lesson . I can already report that improvement at the point of entry have be make at Brize Norton . there be also investigation to look at what lesson can be apply across UK military estate in the UK and overseas . I know that the hon . Gentleman , like I , have a strong interest in drone , and he be right to pursue question around our counter - unmanned aircraft system activity . since he ask I that question a number of month ago , we have publish the strategic defence review , within which we outline how we be look to expand and roll out fast the deployment of the DragonFire direct energy weapon system . it will now feature in a fund programme on four of the Royal Navy destroyer . that will be a testbed for the technology , which we believe have wide application , include against drone elsewhere across the defence estate . I can confirm that in relation to the RAF Voyagers , the activity of the RAF be unaffected , because we be able to move asset to backfill those role . one of the key thing about have an agile air force be that we can do that . the investigation of the damage do to the aircraft by the people who penetrate the security be ongoing , and I will report when it have be firm up more . it be right that we give Counter Terrorism police the space that will allow they to conduct their investigation of the incident at Brize Norton , and the hon . Gentleman will understand why I will not be able to provide a running commentary on that . as for the deployment of RAF typhoon to the region , we currently have about 14 at RAF Akrotiri , and the Prime Minister have make it very clear that should further resource be require , we will not hesitate to roll they forward . the hon . Gentleman ask about the position regard the United States strike . the United Kingdom do not participate in they , and the UK and the US have a shared ambition that a nuclear bomb should not be hold by the iranian regime . I think we all recognise that event be move very quickly , but may I ask the Minister about two issue that concern many of we ? first , we know that the Qataris be notify , and be able to notify the Americans , of the plan attack on their base . be the Minister in a position to tell we whether any notification of the escalation of attack be give to this country ? secondly , can he say a bit more about his plan for the NATO summit and our co - operation with our european counterpart ? the event of this week show very clearly that we need , in Europe , to be able to act strategically to defend our interest , and to work together and step up that work . in relation to the event in the middle east , my hon . friend will appreciate that I will need to be brief far before I can give the House an accurate update . in relation to the NATO summit , she will be pleased to know that thank to the European Union reset deal secure by the Prime Minister , we now have an opportunity to participate far in EU defence programme . the strategic defence review make it very clear that our priority for our security be the euratlantic area , and that the large threat face we at the moment be Russia ; but , of course , Russia work in collaboration with a number of country around the world , and collectively they pose a threat to the rule - base order . we will continue to work with our european ally , and indeed our american friend , to ensure that we have peace and security across the continent . I call the Liberal Democrat spokesman . I thank the Minister for advance sight of his statement , and , of course , understand the update that we have just receive on development in Qatar . in this Armed Forces Week , I want to begin by express my thank to all those brave and committed personnel who serve in the defence of our nation . they deserve not only our thank and praise , but the knowledge that just as they keep we safe , the Government have invest to keep they safe through adequate force protection . I wish to address briefly the statement on those development in Qatar , and the break news that Bahrain have also sound alert pende a potential attack there . of course I welcome the commitment to the protection of our force and asset , which be the first duty of Government . however , this development reflect our fear , follow the US action on Saturday , that this may be turn into a protract , full - scale conflict . what be the Minister ' s current assessment of the risk to US ally in the region ? will he confirm that UK jet will be use only to protect UK asset and personnel ? can he tell the House what step be be take to signal to Iran that the UK ' s operation be limit to this protective operation , so that it be clear that we be not be draw into the offensive operation launch by Israel and the US ? the Minister also say in his update that Akrotiri have not be breach , but can he confirm that none of the other basis in Cyprus be breach in incident over the weekend ? the author of last month ' s strategic defence review explicitly highlight the need to bolster the security of our air force , yet , not even 20 day later , we have already witness an egregious breach of security at Brize Norton and the damage of RAF plane . this be a brazen and illegal act of vandalism , which raise alarming question about the level of security at armed force basis across the country . the Minister refer to the Home Secretary ' s decision today to proscribe Palestine Action . can he give the House a clear understanding of the evidence use to judge that it have cross the threshold set out in the Terrorism Act 2000 ? return to the subject of force protection , I would welcome the Minister ' s response to the follow question . what initial assessment can the Government provide of how it be possible for the breach at Brize Norton to occur ? when do the Government believe the damage plane will be able to return to service ? and be the Minister satisfied that he can sustain the immediate improvement that he describe in order to insure the physical integrity of military basis across the rest of the country , include at Army and naval basis , against the full spectrum of threat ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his support , and for his word in support of our personnel . Armed Forces Week give we an opportunity to thank all the man and woman who serve in our armed force , to celebrate their service and to make the case that a strong armed force be good not only for ensure our security , but as an engine for growth and something in which we can all take pride . I look forward to attend the Armed Forces Day event in Plymouth , and I be sure that member on both side of the House will be do the same in their constituency . let I now respond to the hon . Gentleman ' s question . in his seven hour of negotiation in Geneva this weekend , the Foreign Secretary be very clear with the iranian Foreign Minister about the purpose of UK military asset in the region , and also about the importance of de - escalation and of Iran ' s return to the negotiating table to get serious , negotiate in good faith and reach a diplomatic conclusion to this crisis . there be not a military retaliation option that deliver a solution to the crisis ; we have make that very clear to Iran , as have our european E3 ally and our Gulf partner , and we will continue to do so . the hon . Gentleman ask about proscription . may I direct he to the write ministerial statement make by the Home Secretary today , which will deal with a number of his concern ? in the Home Secretary ' s view , a threshold at which action would become necessary have now be pass , which be why she intend to take the decision to proscribe Palestine Action , as she have announce today . in relation to the breach at Brize Norton , the hon . Gentleman ask about the strategic defence review . on page 115 , the author note : " RAF Brize Norton should be a high priority for investment and improvement " — a statement that we adopt in full when we adopt the strategic defence review and its recommendation . when the investigation have be fully conclude , we will be able to give the House further detail of improvement that we wish to make , not just at Brize Norton but elsewhere on the defence estate . I be concern by the Government ' s kneejerk reaction in proscribe Palestine Action as a terrorist organisation . this country have a long history of protest , as I mention in the Chamber last week ; some of the protest have take place at british military site , and none of those protester have be brand terrorist . last Friday , Palestine Action spray - paint two aircraft at Brize Norton — the first time that the group have take action on british military land . yes , they be guilty of criminal damage , but not of terrorism . even the former Justice Secretary Lord Falconer say that this action would not justify proscription . if there be evidence , show it . can the Minister set out what step his Department will take to ensure that peaceful protest activity be not wrongly categorise as a national security threat ? as there be an ongoing counter - terrorism inquiry into the activity of Palestine Action , which conduct a direct attack on UK military asset at a time of heighten tension , it would be inappropriate for I to go into the full detail . I will say to my hon . friend , though , that the proscription of Palestine Action have be consider for a long time by my colleague in the Home Office . it be a decision that they have take after consider the fact — those in the public domain and those , perhaps , hold privately . we be certain that this be the right course of action to keep our country safe in these difficult time . my constituent in military establishment around Salisbury plain will not see this as an act of vandalism . they will see it as criminal damage . they will see it as sabotage . they will see it as terrorism . the Minister , who I respect , do himself no good by try to downplay its seriousness . there be 2 , 900 Ministry of Defence policeman in the country . in recent year , they have be employ largely in investigate relatively low - level fraud within the Ministry of Defence and in military establishment across the country , with a relatively low conviction rate . do the Minister agree that they would be much well employ look after our critical national infrastructure and military basis up and down the land , include those in my constituency , and will he consider ensure that warrant officer be able to do a job of work for the MOD that can not be do by regional force ? I be very confident that they would welcome the challenge . I thank the right hon . member , who I also have a lot of time for . at no point have I seek to downplay the activity of Palestine Action . indeed , today the Government have take the strong step of proscribe Palestine Action , precisely because its activity be a threat to our national security . it be for that reason that the Home Secretary have make her decision . in relation to the military basis near the right hon . member ' s constituency in Salisbury plain , and indeed to those in the constituency that I represent in Plymouth , the review of our security arrangement cover all military basis . from the Defence Secretary to the Chief of the Defence Staff and other in the Ministry of Defence , we be look carefully at what lesson can be learn , what improvement can be put in place and — note the conclusion of the strategic defence review that we need to invest more in this area — how we can implement the finding of the SDR as quickly as we can . in relation to the right hon . member ' s point about police , I would be very happy to discuss they far with he , because I know he be an expert in this area . as I be take part in the armed force parliamentary scheme with the RAF , I have have the great pleasure and incredible privilege of visit many RAF basis over the last year , and I be in absolute awe of those who put their life on the line to defend we . the event of last week be not only a breach of our defence ; they be a massive demonstration of disrespect for service personnel who will have be deliver aid to people in Gaza . do the Minister agree that we should thank they for their service and that it be right to proscribe Palestine Action ? my hon . friend be exactly right about the disrespect show to our force and their personnel . the threat to our national security pose by breach the security of a military base and approach military asset be something that we take incredibly seriously . the british public want to know that the full force of the law be be use to locate those responsible and bring they to justice , and I can confirm that the investigation be ongoing . the step that the Home Secretary have take today to proscribe Palestine Action be entirely consistent with the severity and seriousness of its activity . the action of Palestine Action at Brize Norton last week be utterly reprehensible and will have cause fear and alarm for military personnel and their family across the country , include in my own constituency , which have three substantial military basis . at the same time , though , the UK Government be not rule out engage in further military conflict in the middle east . the Minister mention the importance of the international rule - base order . how can the UK Government seriously be consider engage in further military intervention abroad , give that year of under - investment have diminish security at basis right here in the UK , which cause concern for our armed force personnel and their family ? I thank the hon . member for his question , and for his obvious concern for our armed force . the statement that I make today and the statement make by the Prime Minister , the Foreign Secretary and the Defence Secretary over the past few day clearly underline that the deployment of UK military force in the middle east be to defend our people and our basis . it be worth remind ourselves why we have a UK military presence in the middle east : to support regional stability and to undertake counter - daesh operation in Iraq and Syria . they be the same operation that help keep the street of Britain safe from terrorist . that be the reason we have a presence in the middle east — secure our ally — and it be why the Prime Minister flow forward additional jet to provide cover and support for our armed force personnel . as we assess what be take place currently , we reserve the right to make further military change to ensure that our people be keep safe . I pay tribute to Standing Joint Command , base in Aldershot , for its contribution to UK resilience . in Armed Forces Week , I also pay tribute to the more than 3 , 000 serve personnel in my constituency , the home of the British Army . the Minister have be really clear about what force protection look like when it come to basis , but what will it look like for garrison town like mine ? in my hon . friend ' s short time in this House , she have become a real champion of our armed force — not just in her constituency , but across the country . she be right to pay tribute to SJC in Aldershot ; General Charlie Collins be a superb leader of that part of our armed force . the SDR make it very clear that we wish to far enhance and upgrade the capability of UK homeland defence , and we will do so . in relation to the security improvement that the review will seek to identify , that work will be base on the incident at Brize Norton , but it will also look at the threat that we face not just at that particular RAF base , but at all UK military establishment . I be certain that I will be back in the House to report on progress in due course . give the manner of infiltration at RAF Brize Norton , I be concerned that the MPGS across the defence estate be neither resource sufficiently nor give the authorisation to engage potential saboteur . the scope of its role allow lethal force to be use only if there be a direct threat to life . RAF Wyton in my constituency , which have the same issue , be protect by the MPGS and augment by serve personnel . give the sensitive information that it provide as the home of defence intelligence , can the Minister offer a guarantee that security level there will be ramp up ? furthermore , RAF Molesworth and RAF Alconbury be both in my constituency . as USAFE — US air force in Europe — basis , they operate under US rule of engagement , so lethal force be permit at a far low level . why be US basis in the UK defend to a high level ? in the spirit of cross - party consensus , I praise the hon . gentleman for make a huge contribution to the way in which we look at defence in his short time here . we have make no cut to the MPGS since take office ; indeed , the opposite be true : we seek to enhance and far support it . the review that the Defence Secretary have commission will look at all military basis , at what lesson can be learn from this incident and at how we can improve . to date , there have be a lot of focus on article 5 of the NATO treaty and how we will come to the aid of other if attack , but we should have an equal focus on article 3 and how we ensure our own homeland defence . that be something that the SDR make very clear , and this Government take implement it very seriously . the Minister will know from my early question about force protection how important it be to take that issue seriously , and it be right that that be the main focus today . but if I may , I want to address an issue that rear its head over the weekend , give that I be one of the only female veteran in this Parliament . unfortunately , certain pathetic little people take the incident at Brize Norton and decide to come out of the woodwork to criticise people for do their job while be female . as a woman serve in the armed force , I know that every opportunity that have be give to woman have be earn through our serve on operation and prove time and again that we be worthy to be there . when I be serve , I be very conscious that I have to be perfect , because any fault or flaw that I show would be hold not just against I , but against all the woman I be serve with . will the Minister stand up and say to every woman serve in the armed force that we respect and recognise their service ? I commend my hon . friend for her word and for her service . the comment that be make at the weekend about our serve military personnel be outrageous , and I notice that there be not a single Reform MP here for this statement . let I be absolutely clear : I believe that all party present in the Chamber today back our force . we do not take to Twitter to mock they . we respect service on a cross - party basis . we do not belittle senior officer base on their gender or experience . we need to be well than that . just as we ask our armed force to address cultural concern , we need to be alive to that in our politic as well , and to call out misogyny wherever it rear its ugly head . let we send a united message from all the party present today that we back our armed force , that we want to see a change in culture in our armed force , and that we value the contribution of everyone who serve , especially those brave woman who have do so much to secure our national security in recent year . order . as it be Armed Forces Week , it be entirely appropriate for the Chair to have allow the Minister to respond to that question , even though it be not strictly in line with the statement . but from now on , give the time that we have available , we have to come back to the statement itself . I be not sure that this question be appropriate any more , Mr Deputy Speaker . ironically , on Saturday the hon . member for Boston and Skegness ( Richard Tice ) demonstrate his ignorance of RAF force protection by tweet that Group Captain Louise Henton ' s background in human resource lead to last week ' s infiltration of RAF Brize Norton . it be a disgusting attack on a senior officer — my previous squadron commander — who have dedicate her career to armed force service and to better the life and live experience of our personnel . will the Minister therefore join I in thank all member of the armed force and in condemn the remark of the deputy leader of Reform ? alive to your word , Mr Deputy Speaker , let I just say that I agree with the hon . Gentleman , as I agree with my hon . friend the Member for North East Derbyshire ( Louise Jones ) . it be so important that , when we make the case for respect our armed force , we recognise that those who serve be not able to respond to comment make in the political arena . they be prevent from do so , and member of this House must therefore have our armed force ' back . we must be able to call out behaviour that be not acceptable , just as we back our force . I hope that all serve member of our armed force will be able to see today the full - throate and full - throttle support of this House for those who serve . I commend the Government for the swift action they take to proscribe Palestine Action after its brazen action at Brize Norton . I would like to raise concern about another relate group call the Islamic Human Rights Commission . it have express support for proscribe terrorist group and use UK platform to spread anti - british propaganda . there be strong evidence that it be directly link to the iranian regime . indeed , placard celebrate the ayatollah and talk of be on " the right side of history " be see at protest at the weekend . what assessment have the Government make of threat to national security beyond Palestine Action , include from this group ? I thank my hon . friend for that question . I be afraid that a Government Minister ' s usual line about proscription be that we do not comment on it except when , as today , I have be able to confirm that a group have be proscribe follow the Home Secretary ' s decision . I encourage my hon . friend to have a conversation with the Security Minister , who be sit next to I . I must say that I be very surprised that the Home Secretary choose to put out a write statement , rather than make an oral statement , when we could have put to she some of these point about what exactly qualify a group to be proscribe as a terrorist organisation . I entirely agree with the sentiment in the House that Palestine Action sabotage these plane , cause criminal damage and could be liable to a charge of criminal conspiracy , and that the people who do the damage should be pursue for remuneration to the point of bankruptcy . however , it would do the country and the Government no favour if they be to lose in court a challenge to the process of proscription , because whereas the secret sabotage of plane would certainly have be an act of terrorism lead to proscription , the fact be that this be a performative act that these people announce they have do . my advice to the Government be to make sure , when these people be prosecute , that it be not solely on the ground of commit terrorist act , rather than commit treasonous act of sabotage . I reassure the right hon . Gentleman that there will be a full debate in this House in the come day as part of the proscription process , so in due course he and all member will have an opportunity to debate in full the proscription decision the Home Secretary have take . I can tell he that the decision to proscribe have not be make without considerable thought , or without reflect on the information in the public domain and information that perhaps be not , and that it be underpin by a very serious legal process . I would agree with his concern , but I seek to reassure he that those matter have be consider as part of the process . I have a substantial military footprint in my constituency , not least Redford and Dreghorn barrack , so I welcome the statement . I have two question . the first be on the situation overseas . I really welcome the comment about force protection , but it would be good to hear whether the family back home be be keep up to date , because I be sure they be worried about our service personnel — their relative — overseas . on Brize Norton , this be an ill - inform and ill - advise attack by a group that , frankly , revel in lawbreaking , as we can see on its website . the irony be that all of we here oppose the humanitarian consequence of what Netanyahu be do in Gaza ; all of we be unite in that . all of we be here to protect and respect people ' s right to protest , but that can not extend to leave our armed force personnel feeling threatened or equipment be put out of use , even temporarily . I welcome the base review , and no doubt that will include the basis in my constituency , but it would be good to hear about what be happen for family who be off - base . will there be fresh advice for family , and when it come to upgrade their military home , will we be look at security to make sure they be keep safe ? I thank my hon . friend for his question , and for the support he provide to the armed force in his constituency . the force protection measure we have introduce as a Government be there to keep our people safe . we be at the high level of force protection for deploy force in the middle east . as part of that , we have seek to draw down non - essential personnel to make sure that the footprint be as appropriate as possible . that include family , but they be very limited in number give the theatre we be talk about . the investment in military housing that he mention be certainly a priority for this government because , frankly , the state of the home we inherit be not good enough , which be why we be invest £ 1 . 5 billion extra in this Parliament to provide home that really be fit for hero . direct action at military basis be nothing new , and we remember with respect the woman who march from Wales to Greenham Common and the thousand of woman who join they . they do not just march ; they pull down fence and criminally damage infrastructure . so do the Minister recognise the risk implicit in proscribing as terrorist organisation protest group call out war ? I say to the right hon . member that this be not a protest group , but people who have undertake severe criminal damage to military asset and who be increasingly use violence as part of their modus operandi . the decision by the Home Secretary have not be take lightly , and it reflect the seriousness of the intent of that organisation . I welcome free speech and I welcome debate and challenge , but vandalise RAF jet be not free speech ; it be criminal damage . that intervention on a military base be , as I say in my statement , not only epically stupid , but a threat to our national security , and the Home Secretary be right to proscribe the group . I thank the Defence Secretary for the urgent review he have launch , and the Minister for the leadership he be show . I join Members from across the House in condemn the appalling attack at Brize Norton , which I be privileged to visit early this year with the RAF parliamentary scheme . as well as attack military installation , Palestine Action have launch violent assault on defence business , include in my constituency . as well as rightly hold a review of military base protection , will Defence and Home Office Ministers review what additional security measure and advice — through the MOD , the police and other body — our defence manufacturer may need in the come year as we ramp up defence production ? I thank my hon . friend for championing defence as the Member of Parliament for his constituency . he be exactly right in highlight that Palestine Action have target not just military basis , but defence business — business employ people up and down the country and contribute to our national defence . he be right to do so , and I can reassure he that conversation between the Ministry of Defence , the Home Office , police force and those in our defence supply chain happen regularly , and we will continue to keep they abreast of development and the concern we may have . give that a female officer command Blandford Camp , I totally echo the comment make by the hon . member for North East Derbyshire ( Louise Jones ) . there will be a lot of concern among personnel in the camp and those who live in the community around it that they be now target for either home - grow domestic terror or those who may be describe as " sleeper " in our country from country and regime that do not wish we well . could I invite the Minister to find a way to confidentially ensure that Members of Parliament across the House who have military basis in their constituency , as I do in North Dorset , be advise as to whether those installation pass the test of security or whether work need to be do , and if it do , to what timeframe it will happen and what work be involve ? there will be a lot of anxiety in those community , and mps across the House can play an important part in allay those concern in their community . I thank the hon . gentleman for the way he approach his question . I share his concern to ensure that Members of Parliament be adequately inform about defence . indeed , it be the Defence Secretary ' s intent , when we take office , to renew and refresh the relationship between the Ministry of Defence and Parliament with a more open conversation . we be endeavour to do that with further briefing and I will take his suggestion on board as we look at how we implement the review . first , on Armed Forces Day , I want to thank all who serve and have serve , include my own son , and recognise the huge contribution make by our armed force , alongside all service family in Portsmouth , the very proud home of the Royal Navy . secondly , I would like to say a huge " thank you " for Armed Forces Day on Saturday , and for be able to take part in the flag raising in my city to show my gratitude and respect to all those serve . give the fast - change landscape alongside the recent disrespectful incident at RAF Brize Norton , with so many armed force personnel base in Portsmouth and personnel from Portsmouth base around the globe , can the Minister confirm whether wide action be be take to review and strengthen security across all our military basis , in both the UK and abroad , and what force protection measure be in place to keep our personnel and their family safe here , abroad and in my city ? as the MP for Devonport , can I say to my hon . friend , the MP for one of the Portsmouth seat , just how proud we be of our Royal Navy , no matter where those ship or capability be base ? it be certainly true that the review commission by the Defence Secretary look not just at what happen at RAF Brize Norton , but at the application of that lesson across the defence estate . the force protection of our people , both home and abroad , be a priority for this Government . we will be undertake the review at pace and I suspect I will be back in front of the House in due course to announce further measure . on the proscription of Palestine Action , I remind the Minister that there be number of recent example of jury find defendant , in case similar to the Brize Norton incident , not guilty base on a necessity defence , as people believe they be act from a desire to prevent war crime . give those jury be clearly able to draw a proportionate line between direct action protest and serious crime , do the Minister agree that the use of the Terrorism Act in this case set a dangerous and worrying precedent ? the dangerous and worrying precedent be set by Palestine Action when it breach an RAF base and vandalise Royal Air Force plane . I entirely respect those who wish to protest , raise argument and use freedom of speech , but let I be entirely clear : vandalise and attack RAF plane be not the way to do that . indeed , it pose a direct threat to our national security . that — and for many other reason that you will appreciate I may not be able to go into in this House , Mr Deputy Speaker — be the reason the Home Secretary have take that decision . when the debate on proscription come forward , as it will in coming day , I hope the hon . Lady will be able to contribute to that debate and far understand why the decision be take by the Home Secretary . give the gravity of the emerge situation , I do not think there be anyone in this House who would begrudge the Minister for need to return to be fully brief on what be happen . but while he be here , will he confirm whether wide action will be take to review security across all our basis in the UK from extremist threat in the light of last week ' s incident ? I thank my hon . friend for the encouragement to head back to the Ministry of Defence ; I will be hightail it back there as soon as this statement be over . the review commission by the Defence Secretary will look at what happen at RAF Brize Norton , but also at what lesson can be apply to our military basis , the defence estate across the UK , and our overseas basis . keep our people safe and keep our ability to protect our country , safe and free from interference , be vital for this country . that be why we have undertake the review . when organisation such as Palestine Action break into military basis , damage secure facility and put our personnel at risk , they be not just protest but sabotage . with that in mind , if any other extremist have carry out those task they would rightly be describe as domestic terrorist . do the Minister agree that this be not legitimate protest , it be domestic terrorism and that any attack on our armed force ' infrastructure should be see thus ? I thank the hon . gentleman for those comment . I often find the phrase " flip it to see it " be useful to identify whether there be inbuilt bias in how we approach a topic . as he suggest , if we be to flip Palestine Action to a number of other group , it would clearly be regard with the same seriousness with which the Government be approach it . I be very glad that the strong message , on a cross - party basis , have go out today that what we see in Brize Norton be unacceptable and that it be right that we take measure to keep our national security safe . could I ask the Minister to think carefully about the contribution make today by the right hon . member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) , the hon . member for Liverpool Riverside ( Kim Johnson ) and the hon . member for Brighton Pavilion ( Si â n Berry ) concern name somebody as a terrorist , when they be in fact protest about the appalling event in Gaza and the treatment of child by israeli force ? it be surprising that in the Minister ' s statement , which describe a lot about the military situation all over the middle east , he say not one word about the illegal occupation of the west bank , the illegal occupation of Gaza and the deliberate starvation , contrary to all aspect of international law , of the civilian population of Gaza . can we not deal with the fundamental issue , which be the illegal activity of the israeli Defence Forces in those scenario ? the right hon . Gentleman speak passionately for the palestinian people and have do so for a very long time . this statement be about not Gaza but the force protection of our military unit in the middle east . but as he have give I the opportunity to do so , let I say very clearly that it be this Government ' s position that what we see in Gaza be intolerable . we need to see a restoration of the ceasefire , we need to see Hamas release all the remain hostage , and we need to see aid at scale deliver to the palestinian people and a step towards the last peace that come with a two - state solution . there be a lot of work to do in that respect . on the word " terrorist " , I be very careful with the language that I use in the statement . it be power under the Terrorism Act 2000 that be be use . when the Home Secretary issue the write ministerial statement , she be also very careful about the language she use . the action of Palestine Action have now cross the threshold under provision in that Act . that be why she have take action today . the Armed Forces Minister be ask a direct question by the shadow Secretary of State for Defence . it be simply this : do the Government support the United States ' action in Iran over the weekend ? the answer he give be that he agree that Iran should not have a nuclear weapon . that be not the answer to the question he be ask . what be the answer ? do the Government actually know whether they support the US action ? if they do know their own mind , why will he not tell we ? the Foreign Secretary be very clear , when he be at the Dispatch Box for his statement early , that the UK and the US share the same long - term ambition to ensure that Iran do not have a nuclear weapon . let I associate myself with the remark about Armed Forces Week from member across the House and the condemnation of the escalation of the situation in the middle east . be the Minister able to explain to I if there will be any additional security measure at the Army Foundation College in Harrogate , give the unique nature of what be happen there ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise the college at Harrogate . it be a really important part of the defence family and I know that the Minister for Veterans and People , my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Selly Oak ( Al Carns ) , who be sit next to I on the Front Bench , take an especially keen interest in the affair of Harrogate . as the review be conduct and we see what lesson can be learn from the incident at Brize Norton , we will be take measure possibly at all military installation , include training establishment across the country if that be suitable . but I be certain that the Minister for Veterans would welcome a further conversation with the hon . gentleman in relation to Harrogate in particular . Mr Deputy Speaker , you will remember that Willie Whitelaw famously offer his resignation after an intruder make his way into Buckingham Palace . have the Minister consider his own position ? give the seriousness of the issue we be discuss , my focus , and the focus of every Defence Minister , be on ensure the protection of our people . I understand that the hon . Gentleman be look for a soundbite , but I believe he may have waste a question where he should have be talk about how we can protect our people in the middle east and back home in a secure way . I join with all member of this House in thank everyone who work so hard at RAF Brize Norton in my constituency , lead very effectively by Group Captain Lou Henton , who be an example to we all . I very much respect and admire how the community in Carterton , right next to RAF Brize Norton , have pull together at this stressful time — they have do a fantastic job . we have really underinveste in security at the base for a long time . like many Carterton resident , I have walk the perimeter quite a few time , and know that that fence be not formidable . what assurance can the Minister give that this airbase and other defence facility around the country and internationally will have their defence strengthen for air , sea and land attack ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise the concern of the local community around Brize Norton , and I would be very happy to meet he to discuss the detail of what occur from our point of view and the measure that can be put in place . the initial action take by the Defence Secretary have identify a number of immediate step that we be take to far secure the base , but I would be happy to speak to the hon . gentleman about that far . the hon . Gentleman be right that much of our armed force estate and our armed force have be hollow out and underfunde for far too long , which be precisely the reason that I welcome the increase in defence spending to 2 . 5 % of gdp by April 2027 . our armed force be brilliant , and it be time they have first - class facility . Humza Yousaf , the former First Minister of Scotland , have invite those in this place to check their moral compass over the proscription of Palestine Action , but I think we have hear here today that no one be seriously suggest that these people be anything other than saboteur , and that anyone who express sympathy for they have their moral compass spinning like a peerie , as we would say in Scotland . Mr Yousaf far suggest that american aircraft use Prestwick airport in Scotland could leave we open to charge of war crime , and I wonder whether the Minister agree with I that that be absolute nonsense . Prestwick airport be own by the Scottish Government — in fact , it be a civilian airport , although it be heavily use by our ally , in particular America and Canada . what can we do to protect those aircraft at that civilian airbase ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise that airfield in question . civil - military co - operation — use civilian infrastructure for military purpose — be a model that we may look to develop far , especially as we look to increase our warfighting readiness in the future , so the lesson about security need to be apply . luckily , many of our european ally operate civil - military airfield , so there be good model that we can look to on how to do that . on the accusation that the hon . Gentleman raise on behalf of a Member of the Scottish Parliament , let I say clearly that the UK military operate only in compliance with international humanitarian law . that be absolutely vital . if an order be give that be contrary to international humanitarian law , our armed force be not require to follow it . it be that high standard that mean our armed force be respect worldwide . the statement speak of enhanced security measure across the whole of defence , so will the Minister review the recent decision to downgrade some of the security measure at Northern Ireland basis , include removal from the permanent base ? on the strategic defence review , to allow our RAF personnel to respond quickly and effectively , be we look at further utilisation of Aldergrove in my constituency ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise the security change that we have introduce at basis and reserve centre in Northern Ireland . it be certainly true that we have reservist guard largely empty building , which be something we have address with increase physical security measure to ensure that they be safe . we be look across the defence estate as part of the review the Defence Secretary have commission , but I would be happy to have a further conversation with the hon . Gentleman about Northern Ireland , should he want to . when an extremist minority spread division and intimidation and now have even attack our military , prioritise foreign region and their interest above our own , it be an attack on our country . it be treason . the primary job of our Government be to protect the UK , so I welcome the announcement today that the Government be take action to do just that . I be proud to celebrate Armed Forces Week at the flag raising ceremony in Runnymede this morning . will the Minister join I in pay tribute to all our armed force staff and the work they do for we all ? I thank the hon . gentleman for the support he have provide to our armed force in Armed Forces Week — a week to thank those who serve and celebrate their service . it seem only appropriate , on a day where I be at the Dispatch Box talk about the necessary force protection of our people , that we take that responsibility doubly seriously today and all this week . while there may be party political difference between member across the House , I believe there be british value that we all share . one of those be respect for the rule of law , and another be respect for our armed force . the pride in our armed force that I have as Minister for the Armed Forces be the same pride that I see on a cross - party basis — pride in all the man and woman who serve in our force . let we hope that across the country , in Armed Forces Week , we can all join in thank everyone who serve and the family who stand behind those in uniform . as the MP for Surrey Heath , I be proudly the MP for all the recruit , cadet , staff and officer at Army Training Centre Pirbright and Royal Military Academy Sandhurst , a privilege that I share with the hon . member for Bracknell ( Peter Swallow ) . I be sure everyone on those basis will be reassure to hear of the work that be be do to look at security ; I think that be particularly the case where basis be highly integrate into local community . I wonder whether the Minister might also be able to offer some reassurance to local cadet force , who wear uniform on our behalf . I want to focus my question on our force in Cyprus . the Minister mention that Akrotiri have not in any way be infiltrate . can he offer the same assurance of Dhekelia , as well as our other site on Cyprus ? what be the Government do to ensure that all those in uniform on Cyprus , whether or not they wear blue beret , be be properly brief and secure on our behalf ? again , in the spirit of cross - party support , I thank the hon . gentleman for the support he offer to those at the training establishment in his constituency . we have some truly remarkable people in our armed force , and it be good to see cross - party support for their work . on our sovereign base area in Cyprus , it be essential that we look not only at how we can protect they , but at how we can protect they from the risk of iranian retaliation , why be why we have enhance the force protection measure on our basis in Cyprus . it be also why the Prime Minister have order the further deployment of Typhoons at our base at RAF Akrotiri , and why we be invest in ground - base air defence there . we will be look at further measure in the month ahead as we seek to implement the strategic defence review , but I can reassure the hon . Gentleman that the work look at security will affect not just those at our UK basis , but our overseas personnel . last but by no mean least , I call the ever - patient Jim Shannon . I thank the Minister for his statement today and for his clear commitment . I want to describe Armed Forces Week in Newtownards in my constituency . on Saturday , 60 , 000 people come to pay their respect to those who serve in uniform . whether they serve in the Army , the Air Force or the Royal Navy , they be part of our community , and the community show its solidarity with they for their courage , bravery and dedication . the hon . member for North East Derbyshire ( Louise Jones ) be right , by the way . I meet the lady who will take over at Thiepval Barracks in Lisburn at the end of this year — again , an indication of the commitment of those woman and lady , who can do the job equally well as anybody else . the action of those criminal at Brize Norton may cause up to £ 30 million in damage , as well as the security measure that will have to put in place . however , the true cost of their action can not just be measure in money ; it be the anger that right - think people have towards those pro - palestine activist who would attack our military to make their political point . they be a threat to those of we who live in this United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland . this terrorism can not be accept . it remind so many of we — especially those from Northern Ireland — of dark day go by . will the Minister acknowledge the righteous anger of the good people of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , and what step will the Minister take to ensure there be not a repeat in Aldergrove , or indeed any other military base with british personnel here or abroad ? some of my Strangford constituent be station at these military basis , not just in the United Kingdom but across the whole world . I thank the hon . gentleman for give an update on Armed Forces Day in his constituency . across the entire United Kingdom , there be real pride in the man and woman who serve in our armed force . although this may be a difficult week for international affair and we may be look at more debate about force protection than we might ordinarily have , let we all take a moment out to make sure that we thank those people who serve , thank their family for the support that they offer , thank those people who work in the defence industry that equip our people with the cutting - edge gear that they need , and thank the society that stand behind they — because our armed force be only as strong as the industry and the nation that stand behind they . I hope that everyone watch the debate will have be able to see the strong cross - party support for our armed force and the strong sense of support as we seek to improve security measure to ensure that we protect our people , at home and abroad . I be sure that the whole House , on both side , will concur with the Minister ' s final remark . I thank he and the Opposition Front Benchers for their attendance . point of order on a point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . the grave situation in the middle east be develop , with further report from Qatar , and I will return from the Chamber to be brief far , but my wide accountability to this House be important . on 12 June , the shadow Defence Secretary , the hon . member for South Suffolk ( James Cartlidge ) , table a write question about the Defence Command Paper 2023 , pursue the exchange that we have have on a point of order before the strategic defence review statement that I make to the House on 2 June . as we prepare to publish our SDR , it become clear that there be no establish departmental procedure for share major defence publication with the Opposition Front Bench ahead of publication . I ask defence official before 2 June and have do so since the shadow Defence Secretary ' s question , but they have still be unable to find any departmental record of a copy of dcp ' 23 be share with I as shadow Defence Secretary . however , have now check my Opposition staff record from July 2023 , I can confirm that an embargoed copy of dcp ' 23 be drop off at my office , along with the conventional " check against delivery " advance copy of the Defence Secretary ' s statement . we take a similar approach with the SDR : the shadow Defence Secretary receive a hand - deliver , embargoed copy of the SDR with my draft statement around 90 minute before the statement begin . however , unlike 2023 , we also offer the shadow Defence Secretary an advance ministerial briefing on the SDR , which he decline . I welcome the chance today to correct the record from my point of order on 2 June . the House will also wish to know that I have now establish a formal procedure for share defence strategy in advance of publication with the Opposition , the Select Committee and other key parliamentarian — something that I have also discuss with Mr Speaker . [ Official Report , 2 June 2025 ; Vol . 768 , c . 40 . ] I thank the Secretary of State for his point of order and for place that on the record . far to that point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . I be very grateful to the Secretary of State , and I be grateful for advance notice that he would be give a point of order , although not of the exact detail . this be extremely important , because while there be no set process , there be a ministerial code , which clearly state that commercially sensitive information should not be give out to the medium prior to be give to Parliament . to reiterate , on that day , yes , we be give a hard copy of the SDR 90 minute before the statement , but I be already in the Chamber for the urgent question arise from that situation — official would have know that we be in the Chamber — and be unable to read it . however , at 8 o ' clock that morning , senior people from the big defence company in the land receive a hard copy of the SDR . the key thing be that , on the point of order on 2 June , I say to the Secretary of State that the situation be unacceptable , and he justify the procedure on the fact that , at the time when I be a Minister — I quote he — " we have no advance copy of the defence review . " — [ Official Report , 2 June 2025 ; Vol . 768 , c . 40 . ] his justification be something that be not the case , and I say that in my immediate response to he . I be glad that , three week later , he have correct the record . we have war in Ukraine and all the instability in the middle east ; there should be consensus on matter of national security , and we should not play game on the most important strategic defence review for many year . I hope that we can now draw a line under this , but to enable that , I hope that the Secretary of State will say to his special adviser and official that they must be as transparent as possible in all pursuant write question on this matter to which we still await answer and in response to freedom of information request . the shadow Secretary of State have place his view on the record . he will understand that that be not a matter for the Chair any far , but I hope that whatever lesson need to be learn will have be learn , and I be sure that , on both side of the House , that be correct . on a point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . during the statement on the middle east early today , I ask the Foreign Secretary : " in the event that Iran do launch a retaliatory military strike against the US , what do the Government believe our article 5 obligation would be with regard to military support for the US , and how would that change if the location of the attack be in the region ? " just a few minute after I ask that question , Iran launch an air attack against US basis in Qatar and Iraq . the Foreign Secretary evade provide a coherent response by refer I to 2 . 13 of the ministerial code . in the current version of the ministerial code , publish on 6 November 2024 , there be no 2 . 13 ; chapter 2 finish at 2 . 7 . I seek your advice , Mr Deputy Speaker , in understand why the Foreign Secretary be mislead the House by quote make - up reference to the ministerial code to avoid scrutiny . should he , as one of the great officer of state , return to this place and clarify why he be not on top of his brief ? first , I be sure that the hon . Gentleman do not wish to imply that the Foreign Secretary be deliberately mislead the House . [ interruption . ] that say — look , he just — order . [ interruption . ] order ! that say , I do not know whether the hon . Gentleman have give the Foreign Secretary notice of his intended point of order , but I think that that be a matter that he will have to raise with the Foreign Secretary himself . the hon . Gentleman will understand that the Chair can not answer for Ministers , but he have make his point . on a point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . on Friday , many colleague in this House speak of compassion , sympathy and understanding . unfortunately , the same compassion , sympathy and understanding be not extend to the hon . member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) . his father - in - law , my constituent Mr Adrian Lawther , be near the end of a very full life , and he rightly want to be with his wife and her family at that time . he seek a pair for Third Reading of the Terminally Ill adult ( end of Life ) Bill from the promoter of the Bill and the Government Chief Whip , as well as seek advice and support from the Speaker ' s Office . Mr Deputy Speaker , I be with the hon . member at the departure gate wait to return to Northern Ireland when his wife call to tell he of her father ' s pass . it now appear that other member be able to avail themselves of proxy in the hand of Government Whips . the hon . member should not have be force to travel to this place to have his vote record . I seek your advice , Sir , on the good approach to seek a remedy to ensure that we in this place can support each other to the good of our ability and at time of great personal need . I be grateful to the hon . member for give notice of his point of order . may I first express my sympathy to the hon . member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) and his family ? I take it that the hon . member for South Antrim ( Robin Swann ) notify the hon . member that he intend to raise the matter in the Chamber today . indicate assent . thank you . as the hon . Member will know , pair be not a matter for the Chair ; it be an arrangement between hon . member individually and their whip — and of course I could not possibly comment any far on that . however , the circumstance under which a Member be eligible for a proxy vote do not at present include family bereavement . if it wish to do so , the House could change that , but I be not able to do so on my own account . I understand , however , that the Procedure Committee have be conduct a review of these arrangement , which might include matter such as pair . on a point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . speak at the Labour party conference in Liverpool in 2022 , the Prime Minister say : " one of my first act as Prime Minister will be to put the Hillsborough law on the statute book " . the Prime Minister say " the Hillsborough law " , not " a Hillsborough law " . this be an actual bill that have its First Reading in March 2017 , table by Andy Burnham and write by expert lawyer . as the parliamentary lead for the " Hillsborough Law now " campaign and a Hillsborough survivor , I want to put on record the campaign ' s grave concern about the status of the Hillsborough law . the Prime Minister miss his 15 April deadline after a replacement Bill be show to lawyer involve in the campaign , who make it clear that it contain none of the key provision of the Hillsborough law and do not deserve the name , and it be reject out of hand . it be rumour that the Government could be about to table another replacement Bill , still without any of the key provision of the Hillsborough law and without allow Hillsborough lawyer , family or survivor to see it . government official have even suggest that parliamentary procedure mean that they be not permit to first share it , despite the fact that that be what they do with the previous draft in March . Mr Deputy Speaker , I ask for your guidance on whether the draft can be first share , as it be before , to give we a chance to raise any concern before there be another betrayal of Hillsborough family and survivor , and all victim of state cover - up . I be grateful to the hon . member for give notice of his point of order . it will not surprise he to know that I do not attend the Labour party conference in 2022 . the King ' s Speech announce that the Government would deliver their manifesto commitment to implement a Hillsborough law by introduce legislation to introduce a duty of candour for public servant . it be , as the hon . Gentleman will understand , up to the Government to decide how they go about prepare legislation , and that include whom they consult and when . I be sure that the hon . Gentleman will play a major part in the scrutiny of the legislation when it be present to Parliament . Pride Month I call the Secretary of State to move the motion . not Secretary of State , Mr Deputy Speaker — well , I don ' t think so . I should say , I do not know anything that the hon . Gentleman do not know . and the thing you do not know , Mr Deputy Speaker — anyway . I beg to move , that this House have consider Pride Month . I should start by declare an interest in this Pride debate . the Daily Mail once refer to I as an " ex - gay vicar " . I be an ex - vicar , but the other stuff be come along quite nicely . in fact , I be a practise homosexual — one day I will be quite good at it . People ask I , " why on earth do you need a Pride Month ? do you really need LGBT history Month ? what ' s the point of Pride marche and pride flag ? Hasn ' t the world change ? haven ' t you already get same - sex marriage and adoption , gay in the police and the military , and law that protect people from discrimination on the ground of their sexual orientation or gender reassignment ? what more do you want ? " that be what I hear all the time , even from really well - mean , liberal soul . but we have always need Pride . we need it when people lazily assume that a short haircut mean that you be a lesbian or a lisp mean that you be gay . we need it when people laugh at Larry Grayson and John Inman but force they to hide their sexuality . we need it when people say that we should be harass , arrest and lock up for love who we want . we need it when the police wear rubber glove to arrest we , just in case we give they AIDS . we need it when we be call queer , faggot and arse bandit at school . we need it when we be sneer at , spat at , punch , kick and beat up . and we need Pride now — when kid be still bully because they be camp or butch ; when family still throw their LGBT child out of the home ; when many be so wear down by abuse that they take their own life ; when so many be so terrified of come out that they live life of terrible , crush loneliness ; when people be abuse for want to transition ; when our cousin in Hungary be deny the right to demonstrate ; when the state police in many country deliberately entrap homosexual ; when trans people be treat as less than human ; and when homosexuality be still illegal in 63 country , include 38 that apply those rule to woman , and include more than half the Commonwealth . yes , we still need Pride . I be sorry to interrupt such a magnificent speech . the first Pride march in London be in 1972 , and I have meet many people who be on that first Pride march who think that they would never need to march again , but they still need to march now . do my hon . friend feel sorry that Pride organisation have now say that no political party be allow to march because of how the lgbtqi + community have be treat ? I will still be march , because I march with other group , but do my hon . friend agree that this be a sad state of affair ? I think we should be proud of the fact that politic have change the law in this country , and political party be absolutely essential to that . I pay tribute to everybody in my political party who for many generation fight for equality — but that be true for the conservative party as well , where people in many case have to be even braver than they do in the Labour movement , and of course in many other party as well . I do agree with my hon . friend ; I think it be an entirely retrograde step to ban people from political party from take part in Pride marche . in contrast to the Minister , I fully support the decision that have be make by the major Pride organisation to tell we that as political party we be not welcome this year on parade or marche . be the Minister not as sad as I be at the absolute state of political policy and discourse around trans right that have directly lead to this action ? I will come on in a moment to some of the problem that I think we have , but when I be first elect as a Member of Parliament , there be still many law in this country that drastically affect the right of lgbtq people in this country , and it be because of political party that we change the law . we should not discard the democratic process ; it be absolutely essential to be able to secure our right . we need to remember that in this country we use to hang man for have sex together and imprison they just for meeting or send each other a love note . this be a serious business , but we also need to celebrate . I remember that on one of the Pride marche I go on , we shout all the way , " we ' re here , we ' re queer and we ' ve not go shop ! " we chant it all the way down Oxford Street , which be ironic in itself . we have to celebrate , because not every LGBT story be a tragedy , and I wish the film and television industry would learn this . we be extraordinarily normal . that be a terrible word , really , but we be phenomenally normal . we bleed when we be cut and we laugh when we be tickled , and we can defy every stereotype go . I hate to break it to you , Mr Deputy Speaker , but not all gay man like musical — I don ' t understand that , but I have meet a few — and apparently not all lesbian enjoy tennis or smoke cigar . [ interruption . ] I do not know what be go on behind I . I would like to put on record that I have never enjoy a cigar , although I would dispute the fact that most lesbian do not enjoy tennis . I be not sure whether it be tennis or tennis player — a bit like rugby and rugby player . we can laugh at ourselves — of course we can — and it be a really important part of this that we be able to do so . a Member of the House of Lords tell a colleague the other day that I be too macho . [ laughter . ] that be not mean to be funny , actually . I reply , " what ? as in the song that go ' macho , macho man ' ? " — perhaps the campest song ever write . People also still ask I why we need to come out . they say , " can ' t you just keep it to yourself ? " let I explain . the rest of the world will always assume that most of we be straight — heterosexual — so it be a complex process when we learn that we be not like other . unless you be very famous , Mr Deputy Speaker , you have to come out time and again , every time that somebody presume that you be heterosexual . we need to need to celebrate what LGBT people have give we . that include Alan Turing , Ivor Novello , George Michael , John Gielgud , Alec Guinness , Wilfred Owen , Oscar Wilde , Edward Carpenter , Anne Lister , Maureen Colquhoun , Radclyffe Hall , Virginia Woolf , Clare Balding , Jess Glynne , Alex Scott , Jane Hill , Skin , Nicola Adams and Sandi Toksvig — and , from the Rhondda , I would add Daniel Evans , H from Steps and Callum Scott Howells , who go to prove that I be not the only gay in the village . come out , Mr Deputy Speaker — I do not know why I keep on address this to you , as if you should suddenly leap forward — matter . order . I think the Minister have be here long enough to understand that , actually , matter have to be direct through the Chair ; he be entirely correct . yes , I think there be a reason . come out matter for our personal pride and our collective pride , so that every boy and girl grow up do not internalise hatred , scorn and shame as use to be the case but learn cheerful happiness and opportunity , and so that every family can take pride in their LGBT child , sister , cousin or aunt . from the first brick throw at Stonewall to this month ' s marche , Pride be a movement root in resistance and the refusal to be silence , sideline or shame . it be about visibility in the face of erasure — and , talk of Erasure , it be about a little respect . there be one final reason that we need to celebrate Pride . the safe place in the 20th century for gay man be Germany in 1930 , where man dance together and love one another with impunity . but , within a decade , the Nazis be cart they off to Dachau and demand they inform on other . when the war be over — perhaps equally shockingly — nobody want to memorialise they ; we be erase , and erase from history . our hard - win freedom be never win in perpetuity ; we need to secure they again and again in every generation . progress be never inevitable ; it must be defend , deepen and deliver to every generation . today , we speak against a backdrop of heighten tension . in the last decade , we have see the consensus around LGBT + right begin to fray , we have see public debate grow increasingly toxic and we have see trans people in particular subject to fear , misinformation and ridicule . pastor in the United States today be call for the death penalty for homosexual . Jonathan Shelley in Arlington say that " we should hate Pride , not celebrate it " . on the shooting of LGBT people in the Pulse nightclub in 2016 , Donnie Romero , who be also a pastor in Arlington , say that those who be kill be " all pervert … they ' re the scum of the Earth and the Earth be a well place now " . that be what we be still face today . that be why the Government will not tolerate about a roll back of right , nor a politics of division that pit one group against another . that be why we be deliver a full trans - inclusive ban on conversion practice . those so - call therapy be nothing less than abuse . they do not work , they cause deep , last harm , and their continued existence be a stain on any society that claim to be inclusive . draft legislation will be publish in this session , inform by wide - range engagement and guide by the need to protect , not punish — to prevent harm , not criminalise care . we be also work with the Home Office to equalise all hate crime strand . I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for North Warwickshire and Bedworth ( Rachel Taylor ) , who raise the matter last week . no one should face abuse , violence or discrimination because of who they be or who they love , yet across the country LGBT people — especially trans people — be be target with grow intensity . in too many case , the law do not yet offer equal protection . that be not justice ; the Government will act . we be also improve access to fertility service for lesbian and bisexual woman . as of November , same - sex couple be no long subject to unnecessary additional screening cost for IVF , and the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence be currently review its fertility guideline , which will help to ensure more equitable access to NHS - fund treatment , regardless of sexuality or relationship status . this Government recognise that build a family be a human aspiration , not anyone ' s privilege . we be also strengthen healthcare service for tran people . we be launch a review of gender identity service to ensure they meet modern standard of equality , safety and accessibility . that include reduce waiting time , expand service capacity and improve mental health support throughout the transition journey . we be invest in housing solution for young LGBT + people at risk of homelessness , too . far too many be push out of their home or fall through the crack in mainstream service . we will soon establish an inter - ministerial taskforce on this , chair by the Deputy Prime Minister , to co - ordinate effort across all Departments . our commitment to dignity and equality do not end at our border . right now , 63 country criminalise same - sex activity , and in 13 of those country the death penalty can be apply . at least 49 country actively target tran and gender - diverse people with discriminatory law . in many of those country , shamefully , that be a direct legacy of british colonial rule : legislation that we impose continue to harm people . we can not undo the past , but we must take responsibility for the future , which be why the UK be a proud member of the Equal Rights Coalition , why we have invest over £ 40 million to support global LGBT right , and why our diplomatic mission work every day behind the scene to support local advocate , challenge repressive law and offer hope to those face persecution . if there be any Reform Members in the Chamber , I would point out that that sometimes mean put up a Pride flag . we be see a backlash , as the hon . member for Brighton Pavilion ( Si â n Berry ) say , but we be also see breakthrough . this year , Thailand become the first south - east asian country to legalise same - sex marriage — hurrah ! in Namibia and Dominica , consensual same - sex act be decriminalise . in India , the Supreme Court be review discriminatory blood donation policy . there be light in this tunnel . I want to address the recent Supreme Court ruling , because I know it matter to a large number of people . it be , of course , a significant legal judgment , and one that have understandably prompt discussion and — in some case — fear . let I be absolutely clear : the right and protection for tran people under the Equality Act 2010 remain firmly in place . the protect characteristic of gender reassignment still apply . discrimination , harassment or victimisation of trans people be unlawful and will remain so under this Government . the ruling have offer important clarity for service provider — particularly those offer single - sex space — and we respect the Court ' s decision . we reject any attempt to weaponise the ruling to roll back the hard - win dignity and inclusion of trans people . this be not and must never become a zero - sum debate . we can protect single - sex space base on clear , lawful criterion while also protect the fundamental right and dignity of trans people who — let we not forget — be among the most marginalised and misunderstood in our society . I welcome the tone with which the Minister have approach this really important point . will he touch on the propose guidance from the Equality and Human Rights Commission , which he will know be out for consultation ? one section that really concern trans constituent be about disclosure and require trans people to disclose their identity . I have to be honest : that seem to be nothing short of out tran people . will he provide reassurance that we will not see a situation in this country where trans people end up be compel to out themselves ? my hon . friend make a good point ; that be very important . indeed , the Gender Recognition Act 2004 lay down clearly the privacy responsibility of other Government Departments . in fact , one of my anxiety when we be consider the datum ( Use and Access ) Act 2025 be that we seem to be get to a place where people would have to present their passport or a document to prove whether they could access a single - sex space . I honestly think that the right of both these group can be respect fully . we surely must be the kind of society that can achieve that . the Minister be rightly point out where progress have be make nationally and internationally , but when he be canter through those point of light nationally , he miss out one group : the man and woman serve in our armed force . I be particularly mindful of that because Saturday be Armed Forces Day and , sadly , one of the chief advocate for LGBT people in the armed force , Lord Etherton , die in May . will the Minister pay tribute to Terence Etherton and comment on his 2023 report into the shameful way in which gay people be treat in the armed force between 1967 and 2000 ? I be really grateful that the right hon . Gentleman have raise that point , and it be good that it be a point of agreement across the whole House . there be a time when large number of people in this House would have think that have gay man , lesbian or tran people in the armed force be anathema , and I be so glad that we have change . the shield on the wall up there be dedicate to member of Parliament who be kill in the second world war , and at least five , if not six , of they be gay man who give their life in defence of this country . Bravery be available to people regardless of their sexuality or their identity . the right hon . Gentleman be also absolutely right to refer to Terence . his report be an essential part of change the landscape in this country and make sure that compensation be available to the individual who be affect . [ Official Report , 30 June 2025 ; Vol . 770 , c . 1wc . ] ( Correction ) we should acknowledge the fundamental truth that trans people have always be at the forefront of our movement . from Marsha P . Johnson in New York to Mark Ashton here in the UK , tran people and gender non - conform people have lead protest , shape policy and build community , often with little recognition or safety in return . at Stonewall , at section 28 protest , in the founding of support service and HIV charity , and at the heart of every movement that push we forward , trans people be there and they lead . we owe they a debt of gratitude , so to treat they now as a threat to the very movement they help build be wrong . we will not forget their role , and we will not leave they behind . Trans people deserve safety , dignity and the same freedom to live their life as anyone else , and under this government they will have it . on 29 August 1924 , Edward Carpenter have his 80th birthday . he have famously campaign for our right and live with his lover , George Merrill . indeed , he be probably the model for E . m . Forster ' s novel " Maurice " , which I think be publish only after E . m . Forster ' s death . Carpenter be a brave campaigner at a time when it be impossible to be brave . man be still be imprison with hard labour for homosexuality in 1924 , when he come to his 80th birthday , so it be a phenomenal act of bravery when every single member of the Labour Cabinet — there be a Labour Government in 1924 — sign a letter to Carpenter wish he a happy birthday . that kind of magnanimity should be the hallmark of our politic today . we be not yet the country that we could be , but in all we do in our hospital and our school , in our law and our language , in our foreign policy and our public service , this Government will uphold one principle : a little respect for all . let that be the legacy of this House . will the Minister give way ? I have finish . I be sure the hon . Lady will have the opportunity to intervene later on . it be a real pleasure to follow the Minister and to speak in this important debate . I would like to take this opportunity to wish everyone in the House , across my Daventry constituency and across the country a very happy Pride Month . the Minister be absolutely right to say that Pride be still need . I have certainly see significant change over my lifetime , include thing that I never think would be possible when I be grow up as a young gay man in Anglesey , but he be right to say that these be important issue that we should continue to discuss . on the whole , I have be privileged to have a life in which I have be accept pretty much everywhere I have live , but I have have those difficult occasion that I have speak about before , not least be badly beat up and my father come to my rescue and be beat up too , try to protect his son . those be the thing that we need to remember . we also need to remember people like the young man that I hear about in Manchester a few year ago who have be kick out of his home because his parent could not accept his sexuality . his life take a nosedive and , sadly , he end up sell himself for sex to survive . he be eventually murder by someone who he be supposedly try to get some money off . these be the disgusting consequence that may happen if we do not remind ourselves of the journey that we have be on as a country . I have to say that thing be pretty good for I . Most of the time , most people do not care that I be a gay man — be you ? yeah — but I be butch like you ! [ laughter . ] as I be say , most people do not really comment on the fact that I live with a man . they be more interested in the fact that he work for Marks & Spencer and get 20 % off . but it be important that we have these conversation because there be still people around the world , and in community in this country , who can not come out . there be people in community in our country who live a different life from the one that they want to live , and there be people around the world , as the Minister rightly say , who will be put to death if they love the person they really want to love . that be why Pride Month be important , and its theme of activism and social change emphasise a reflection on the contribution of LGBT individual and community in create a well world for we all . we be lucky in this country that we have a host of people in our history who have be at the forefront of fighting for equality . yes , there be the famous people — Dame Kelly Holmes , Tom Daley and Sir Ian McKellen , to name but a few — but there be so many inspire LGBT people from right across the decade , as the Minister mention . I would like to mention Sophia Jex - Blake , Scotland ' s first female doctor , who fight for so many woman to be allow to train as doctor and found medical school up in Scotland , where she eventually meet her life partner , whom she live with until her death in 1912 . I also want to mention Patrick Trevor - Roper , who be one of only three witness who could be convince to appear before the Wolfenden committee . his evidence help to start the journey to decriminalisation . those people , in my view , be incredibly brave . give that we have commemorate the 80th anniversary of VE Day this year , I think we should also remember one of my personal hero , Dr Alan Turing , a man whose brilliance crack the Nazis ' Enigma code . this be an incredible feat , give that Enigma have 159 million million million setting . he play a crucial role in crack the intercept message that enable the ally to defeat the enemy in the Atlantic and in other engagement . we owe he so much , but his treatment later , when he be prosecute for be gay , be a shame that I know we all find abhorrent . the Government rightly apologise and he be later posthumously pardon . in my view , he be a true hero of our nation . of course , we have have champion in this place , too — people like Chris Smith , who bravely become the first openly gay MP ; Edwina Currie , who lead a debate on change the age of consent ; and too many other hon . and right hon . member to name . I do want to name one or two from the conservative side because I know everyone will do their own pitch . there be people like our former colleague Eric Ollerenshaw , who be on that first Gay Pride march in 1972 . he recall to I that he be actually spat at by the police — that be how bad it be . there be people like Mike Freer , who campaign hard on issue like PrEP , and our former colleague Elliot Colburn . I would like to take this opportunity to say happy birthday to LGBT + Conservatives , which celebrate its 50th birthday this year , make it one of the old LGBT - affiliate group for a political party in the world — a title it share with LGBT + labour . I wish LGBT + labour a happy birthday as well . in 1975 , the LGBT Conservatives be establish by Professor Peter Walter Campbell . I be that old that I have see LGBT conservative go through several guise over the 30 year since I first join . back then , it be know as TORCHE — Tory Campaign for Homosexual Equality . I pay tribute to the work it have do over those 50 year . little do those founder and that first generation of our LGBT Conservatives and Labour know it , but they be merely year away from a global HIV / AIDS epidemic . around the world , hundred of thousand of people would lose their life , include people here in the UK . gay and bisexual man live in fear , and many feel powerless and hopeless . if we fast forward to 2025 , we find ourselves in a truly different world , and I want to thank all those who have make that change possible . I recognise that those contribution have come from party across this Chamber , and I thank they all for it . I be proud of our record as a party over the last 14 year for the life of LGBT people , not least the rolling out of highly active antiretroviral therapy treatment for HIV in England and fund the first ever HIV testing week . in 2013 , we introduce same - sex couple ' marriage in England and Wales , which be one of the most memorable debate in my time in the House and one of my proud moment here . we introduce the legalisation of self - test kit for HIV , as well as a host of other thing that we be proud to have do . I also want to remark on the comment of my right hon . friend the Member for South West Wiltshire ( Dr Murrison ) , who be no long here , about people in the armed force and to pay tribute to Lord Etherton . when I be the Equalities Minister , I have the privilege of meet he several time as he go through that report . he do not just get evidence from thousand of people ; he personally read every single testament because he want to know those story inside out , and thank goodness he do that . I pay tribute to he for the work he have do . think about all these achievement and those of former mps and other inspirational figure , I find it appalling and deeply disappointing that some Prides across the country have ban our political party from this year ' s parade . LGBT conservative , LGBT labour , LGBT Lib Dems and all other be not allow to attend . like the Minister , I also remind the organiser that it be these group and so many mp in this House that bring about the change we enjoy today . as Jo Cox say , there be more that unite we than divide we . they cause this divide be a retrograde step , and I pay tribute to the like of Owen Meredith and other who have take up this fight . I call on the organiser to think again , especially as two party celebrate their 50th birthday in term of LGBT issue . I be aware that many colleague want to contribute , but I have a couple of question for the answer Minister . I would like an update on the HIV programme . it touch I that people across the House want to embark on that ambition of have no new HIV infection in this country by 2030 ; of course , we have only one Parliament leave to get that do . could the Minister set out where the Government be up to on that and what plan they have to ensure that we meet that ambitious target ? will the Government ensure that they be work with our devolved region to ensure a UK approach to eradicate new HIV case — not just England , but Wales , Scotland and Northern Ireland , too ? we can end new HIV case without a vaccine or cure , and wouldn ' t it be great for the UK to be the first place to do so ? we want the Government to succeed on this issue , build on a lot of the work that we do in office and work with great organisation like the Terrence Higgins Trust . let we make that an ambition for all of we . let we remember why we have Pride in the first place , and make this Pride count . rise — Order . I be impose an immediate three - minute time limit , with the exception of the Front Benchers . I thank my hon . friend the Minister for Creative Industries , Arts and Tourism for open this important debate and give we this opportunity , and for do it in such a poignant yet joyful way . I be also honour to be share the Chamber with both of my predecessor ; I think that show that this be an area where we do have more in common . from box champion and sporting legend Nicola Adams to beloved playwright Alan Bennett and award - win composer Angela Morley , Leeds have produce countless trailblazer who be part of the LGBTQ + community . in true Yorkshire fashion , we don ' t do thing by half . Leeds boast one of the big LGBTQ + community in the UK . from the Bookish Type , an independent bookshop , to the Leeds Queer Film Festival in our city centre , represent by my hon . friend the Member for Leeds Central and Headingley ( Alex Sobel ) , Leeds have so much to offer , thank to our vibrant community . in my constituency of Leeds North West , many local business be celebrate and show their support with vibrant rainbow flag and Pride - theme window display , such as Courtyard Creativities in Horsforth . there be so much to celebrate , but there be still work to be do . the community , as we have discuss already — I be sure more will come — still face discrimination and last year , sadly , 10 , 000 hate crime be report to West Yorkshire police . I be proud that we be lead the charge , commit to strengthen our hate crime legislation until everyone be free to live and express themselves without fear . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker ; happy Pride Month to you , the whole House , my North Cornwall constituency and , indeed , the whole country . Pride Month be a celebration , but it be also a protest and a call to action — a reminder that the hard - fight right we win must be defend and that the injustice still endure by many must be tackle , both here and abroad . we have already hear that around 64 country still criminalise LGBTQ + plus citizen . as a liberal Democrat , I be extremely proud to belong to a party that have be at the forefront of the fight for LGBTQ + equality for decade . my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) move the amendment that repeal the appalling section 28 in 2003 , and the Liberal Democrats introduce same - sex marriage while in government , which enable I and thousand of other to get married on the same basis as everyone else . but today we face a new wave of hostility , aim particularly , it seem , at the trans community , which I will come back to . first , I want to focus on one group that be often overlook : LGBTQ + veteran . I have be support campaigner fight for recognition , justice and dignity for those who be dismiss from our armed force simply for be who they be . one of they , Adrian Radford - Shute , live in my North Cornwall constituency . he be force out of the Intelligence Corps in 1996 because of his sexuality , and he suffer horrific physical and sexual abuse . the trauma of that experience still live with he and thousand of other — severe post - traumatic stress disorder and a lifetime of silence , without the recognition of the huge sacrifice that they make for this country . adrian and other campaign relentlessly , and finally , in December , the Government launch the LGBT veteran financial recognition scheme , finally offer some redress to those who be dismiss under the ban . some , if not most , of those veteran also face the most horrific case of rape , abuse and other form of unforgivable violence and coercion . few be believe , and many be tell that it be their own fault . I fight hard alongside Adrian to ensure that no veteran be leave behind , regardless of rank or the circumstance of their dismissal . after direct engagement with the Ministry of Defence , I be assure that officer force to resign would be treat equally to those administratively discharge , but the progress in review case have be abysmally slow . of around 1 , 300 application to the scheme , just 24 have be pay out . at this snail ' s pace , it will take up to 17 year for all those brave veteran to finally receive their compensation and their closure . this be a national scandal . while other military compensation scheme quite rightly award up to £ 650 , 000 , the LGBTQ + veteran compensation scheme be cap at just 10 % of that . as a country we be currently ask ourselves how we can attract more recruit to our armed force , but we do not treat our veteran with the dignity and respect they deserve . in this Armed Forces Week , I urge the Government to take action immediately to speed up these payment . today , two third of LGBTQ + people in the UK still report experience abuse or violence because of their sexuality or identity . Trans people in particular face constant attack . just a few week ago , I witness a vile incident with abuse hurl at a trans person walk down a high street in my North Cornwall constituency . in 2023 , a Home Office report find that comment by politician and the medium over the previous year could have lead to a huge spike in such offence . that bring shame on this House and our entire country . the hon . Gentleman make an incredibly powerful and important point . one word we have not yet use in this debate be allyship . one challenge be that too often it fall on to the shoulder of our LGBTQ + sister and brother to fight these fight because those of we who would consider ourselves ally maybe have not be as vocal as we have need to be . let all of we pledge , ally alike , to join the fight to make sure we live in a country where everybody can be who they want to be without fear . I warmly welcome the hon . Lady ' s offer of be an ally , and I agree that it be so important to the LGBTQ + community to have that alliance . as well as politician , public figure desperate for attention and relevance such as J . k . rowling have poison the public discourse with attack on our trans community , all under the false dichotomy that it be not possible to be a true feminist and protect woman ' s right without attack and abuse the trans community , a phoney culture war which have leave tran people fearful just to be themselves . the tone of this debate have be so un - British . it be much more like the US , where everything be deal with in extreme absolute : black and white ; right and wrong ; no compromise ; no respect or compassion for one of the most vulnerable group in our society . it be horrible to see how hate have be weaponise for political gain . I know how it feel to think of yourself as break , to feel like society will never accept you , and to feel ashamed to admit to friend and family who you really be , and that thing might be well if you just do not exist at all . surely in 2025 we can do so much well and make sure that trans people be see and value for who they truly be . to conclude , I urge the Minister to provide this House with an update on what step he be take to reassure the trans community that it will continue to receive protection and safe space follow the Equality and Human Rights Commission guidance , which have leave many trans people confused and anxious . when will this Government ban conversion therapy in full ? we have hear it from the Minister again , but no specific timetable have be give for both sexuality and gender . rise — I invite the Minister to give way if he can tell we the timetable for that . I think the hon . Gentleman be give way to I , but , yes , I say that it would be in this Session of Parliament , which be a pretty clear timeline . I thank the Minister for the intervention , but that be rather vague consider that we have many year leave of this Parliament . I say it would be in this Session of Parliament , not this Parliament . move on then , as that have answer my question — [ interruption . ] yes , it be an excellent answer . what step be the Government take to reduce the time that LGBTQ + veteran be have to wait for their financial redress application ? I look forward to hear an update on that later on . finally , what action be the Government take to address disproportionate rate of mental ill health and homelessness among the LGBTQ + community ? the Minister refer to a review , which I believe be to be chair by the Deputy Prime Minister , but we really do need urgent action now . let ' s celebrate Pride Month while remember that the fight for LGBTQ + right be far from over . the Liberal Democrats will continue to lead it , and we will not stop until everyone be free to live as their true self , without fear and without apology . pick up from what the hon . member for North Cornwall ( Ben Maguire ) say about delay in the process of payment to those dismiss from the armed force , that experience of delay have be raise with I by my constituent , Paul , who I thank for give I permission to discuss his story today . Paul love music from an early age and , at 15 , he audition to join the Army as a bandsman and pass with fly colour . later that year , still not yet 16 , he do his three - month basic Army training in Aberdeen . it be at that time that he realise he be gay , and his time in the Army become unnecessarily complex and stressful for he as he have to hide his true self . in the summer of 1988 , while rehearse for the Edinburgh Military tattoo , he be take aside by the military police . Paul be arrest in front of the entire regimental band and the other band on parade . he be take to Edinburgh castle , where the special investigation branch interrogate he for hour . he do not know what to do , so he just deny everything . he be then imprison for a week . during that time , he be humiliate and call degrade name . he be hose down instead of be allow to wash , and make to do push - up while a corporal push on his back so hard with his drill boot that blood seep through Paul ' s vest . his meal be spat on and defecate in , and when he refuse to eat they , they be throw at he . he be repeatedly ask intrusive , aggressive and detailed question about his sexual activity . during his time in jail , he be allow one phone call , which he use to call his mother , who tell he to admit that he be gay . under the sustained pressure from the interrogation and with the advice of his mother , he admit he be gay and he be dismiss from the Army . in 2017 , Paul suffer a mental breakdown . his therapist believe that Paul ' s Army experience and flashback contribute to that breakdown . Paul have be diagnose with post - traumatic stress disorder as a result of his Army experience . we owe it to Paul and all the other LGBT + veteran that application for financial payment be process as quickly as possible and with as little intrusion as possible . my constituent and many other veteran be wait for justice . I urge colleague across the House to give their support to the fighting with Pride campaign on this issue . in Armed Forces Week , let we remember the thousand of military personnel whose service be cut short by dismissal because of their sexuality . finally , I call on the Government to redouble their effort to rectify this historic injustice by deliver financial reparation in as timely and considerate a manner as possible . I be proud to speak in today ' s debate on Pride Month ; it be the first time I have do so . I also enjoy the distinction of be the first straight man to become a member of LGBT Conservatives , which involve a special resolution to approve my membership . hopefully that will be the first and last constitutional conundrum for which I be responsible in my political career . today , I want to speak of my incredible pride that , more than 10 year ago , a conservative coalition Government pass legislation to legalise same - sex marriage . today , around 167 , 000 people be live in same - sex marriage , with all the happiness , challenge and life - enrich complexity that involve . I be proud of that because the conservative party be the party of family , and the party of right and duty , freedom and responsibility — the freedom for people to love whoever they choose , and the freedom to honour that love by make a lifelong commitment to another person , with all the responsibility for mutual care , support and home building that entail . child enjoy the good outcome when they be raise in stable , love home . while marriage be not always a guarantee of stability , it be a good indicator and supporter of it . datum from the UK longitudinal household survey show that cohabit parent be 3 . 4 time more likely to split up during any give one - year period compare with married parent , across income group . the benefit of make a commitment and raise a family be not just for the child of those family . take on family responsibility give people meaning and purpose , make they more productive as they work to put the people they have take responsibility for ahead of themselves . in say this , I want to acknowledge and pay tribute to the single parent and cohabit couple , both same sex and heterosexual , who do a heroic job every day for their family . quite frankly , as a married parent myself , I do not know how single parent manage it and I pay tribute to they . all parent should be acknowledge and appreciate for the daily act of care and sacrifice that they make for their child — our future . just because other model can and do work , we should not stop strive to support the institution of marriage as the foundational building block of our society . society benefit from stable family where child can be support to thrive and become citizen who contribute to not only their family live , but their community . I be pleased and proud to belong to a party that champion the right of same - sex marriage and bring it into law . our law and policy should incentivise commitment to family life for all couple , regardless of sexuality . I be proud that because of decision in this place , so many people can marry the person they love today . I welcome the statement from the Minister — I have no idea that he be a practise vicar or that he like musical , so I have finally find that out . I be proud to rise to contribute to this important and timely debate on Pride Month . I associate myself with comment make by the shadow Minister , the right hon . member for Daventry ( Stuart Andrew ) , and other from across different party in this House to reflect on and celebrate the contribution of LGBT + people throughout our history . the community be rich and contribute to every part of our society , from the science to the art and from fashion , of course , to technology , medium and often politic . we uphold the principle that a truly fair and open society be one in which everyone can thrive , regardless of who they be or who they love . that openness , creativity , innovation and justice be a part of our country — the very fabric of our country — and this month be a celebration of some of the key talent within it . every June , we come together to celebrate Pride Month . that have not come in a world without challenge and remembrance for those who have come before we . we have come a long way , but there be still a long way to go , especially as local council in some area be ban flag . pride be be deny support across the country , and some elect representative , many of whom sadly be not here , oppose equal marriage and come out with sometimes questionable remark . I believe that all of we be well when we celebrate each other ' s success , and I want to give special recognition to my local Medway Pride , run by Hilary Cooke , which have be a force for good in our local community and which have support local business through its activity in secure thousand of people to visit Rochester castle . I will also contribute and celebrate the fact that local council can do so much to improve our vibrant space , include our local Medway council . Pride begin as a protest , and that spirit of resistance still matter . I completely agree with colleague that we need to continue to challenge whatever government , be it my own Labour Government or a Government from across the aisle , on whether we will get trans conversion practice ban . I be really glad to hear and welcome the statement today that that be happen over the course of this Parliament . let we recommit as lawmaker , neighbour and ally not just in word , but in policy , investment and principle to build a country where every person feel see , safe and support — a country where love be never criminalise , identity be never erase and no one be ever make to feel ashamed about who they be . Happy Pride , Medway , and happy Pride , Parliament . I will be brief , give the time limit that have be set . I must say I be slightly disappointed that there be not more musical number and pun from the Minister in his speech at the start — I be sure we will get some later . I be really proud to represent Harrogate and Knaresborough . at the moment , Knaresborough High Street be adorn with flag celebrate Pride , and I know that our town be incredibly tolerant and open place . early this year , we have a particular incident with a candidate from the Conservatives stand in the local election who post really quite grim and disgusting tweet . I be really pleased that our town reject that at the ballot box . Harrogate use to have a Pride parade , but it stop when the pandemic come along . I really hope that I and the Harrogate Pride organisation can get that up and run in due course . I do not plan on intervene , but we have a husting during the election , and one of the question be about the upcoming Sherborne Pride . unfortunately , I be amazed that even in this day and age there be not unanimous support for a Sherborne Pride . my first act as an MP be to go to the inaugural Sherborne Pride , and we have the second one come up in a couple of week . do my hon . friend believe that the importance of Pride be show inclusion for everybody ? my hon . friend make an excellent point , and I completely agree with he . I be amazed that in this day and age , there be still place in which we dispute whether or not we should fly flag or have Pride celebration . in my view , that be not british . I want to briefly mention that in the day follow the Supreme Court ruling , I have a trans constituent come into my office . she impress upon I that her situation have fundamentally change : she be worried about her right , about be challenge in toilet , and that the Supreme Court ' s decision usher in a new era of uncertainty for tran people . I put on the record my support for the trans community , as member from across this House who be present in the Chamber today have already do . however , we be in uncertain time , and it be incumbent on we all to make sure we stand up for the entire LGBT community . while I , too , be disappoint that political party be ban from attend Pride in many city this year , I understand why organiser have come to that conclusion . it be incumbent on all political party to do well , and if we be honest , all party have issue when it come to LGBT right . we should all try to make sure that we do much well . as the Minister say , come out be not a one - off event . I be fortunate enough that when I be at school , I never get bully — my friend James might have punch anyone if they have take issue with it . we be not in favour of that , either . we be not in favour of it , no , but it do help to have the rugby boy on your side . one comment be make after I actually do come out in the last year of high school . I can remember someone chuntere from the back of the classroom , go , " oh , Tom ' s gay ! " I turn around and go , " yes , and ? " that be the end of it , so even in an ex - mining town such as the one I be originally from , people be much more tolerant than you would perhaps expect . a disproportionate number of people who be LGBT be still impact by hate crime , which be something that worry I in light of the hostility and , in particular , the rhetoric online . the most online abuse I have receive have be when I have speak up for trans constituent , which I be sure be an experience that many people across this House share . that be a damn reflection of how people seek to whip up hate and divide people , when we should be look to come together . the final thing I want to do be to plug the charity of the constituent who come to I to speak about be a trans woman . I have not hear of it before , but it be call Nutshell , and it offer talk therapy and counselling — not for trans people themselves , but for the family of trans people , who can often feel particular frustration with find out that one of their love one be tran . it be a holistic approach , and I endorse what that charity do . I think I come out in this place in my maiden speech when I mention Eurovision . I will continue our campaign to make sure we get eurovision back in Harrogate , and I hope the Minister will join I in that campaign . it be a privilege to speak in this debate . I rise with personal pride as Macclesfield ' s first openly gay Member of Parliament , and with real pride at how far Macclesfield and the country have come over the year . I grow up in the Macclesfield constituency , and if anyone have tell I back then that we would have our own Pride , I would never have believe they . People line the street in celebration and solidarity be a wonderful thing to see , and I know member across the House have the same experience in their area . it be joyful and defiant , but as the Minister and other have say , it be also political . it be a protest as much as it be a party — a refusal to accept that anyone should be ashamed of who they be . that matter because , as member have say — or , I be sure , will say — we have see a shocking rise in homophobic and transphobic hate crime over past year . that be why I be proud to support the amendment to the Crime and Policing Bill table by my hon . friend the Member for North Warwickshire and Bedworth ( Rachel Taylor ) , to make those hate crime aggravate offence treat with the seriousness they deserve . hate have no place on our street , in our school or in our politic , but we have see that hate even in Macclesfield . just recently , anti - LGBT poster appear around the town — nasty , cowardly attempt to intimidate and divide — but just as quickly as they go up , they be take down . they be take down by neighbour , by volunteer , and by people who simply refuse to let that kind of poison define our community . in their place come message of love , solidarity and inclusion . that be the Macclesfield I know and be incredibly proud to represent . we can not ignore the wide context . the UK have drop dramatically in the ILGA - Europe ranking for LGBT + right , which be a signal that we be no long the standard bearer we once be . the recent Supreme Court decision have create confusion and concern among the trans community . People be leave ask what right they can rely on and whether the protection they think they have still apply . that uncertainty feed fear , and fear be something that no one should have to live with simply because of who they be . we must all redouble our effort to uphold equality in law and in life . I welcome the statement early about trans conversion practice and the ban on it come soon . progress be not permanent ; it have to be protect , nurture and renew . the same be true with equality . when we stop fight for it , we risk lose it . these can be difficult time , but I be an optimist and I remain hopeful , because I have see the resilience of our community . I have see it in Macclesfield with the rainbow flag fly from shop window , and I know that people across this House will stand with the LGBT + community to say loudly and clearly that nobody should be make to feel afraid , ashamed or exclude because of who they be or who they love . Happy Pride to everyone in Aberdeen , in Scotland and in every part of these island . the world be a pretty scary place right now in a huge number of way . as the Minister say , LGBT people be normal just like the rest of we , and they be similarly feel scared about the state of the world , not least in the wake of the Supreme Court decision and the impact that be have on tran people . the Minister say : " our hard - win freedom be never win in perpetuity " , and it be the case that trans people ' s right — their right to a private life , and their right to human right — have be roll back as a result of this reinterpretation of the Equality Act 2010 . People be less able to live their life with the freedom they should be able to have , and the Government need to do something about that . People keep use the word " clarity " about the ehrc guidance , but there be no way that it provide that . it require tran people regularly to out themselves . they may still have protection on the basis of gender reassignment , but trans woman no long have protection as woman as a result of this reinterpretation of the Equality Act , and that be not the way it should be . all I can say to my trans constituent and people across the United Kingdom be that I be sorry ; we need to get this sorted and we need to keep fight . on the decision take by a number of Pride organisation , we have no entitlement to be there . there be no entitlement for political party to be allow to take part in Pride . for all that that we have do great thing 50 year ago , 25 year ago , five year ago or two year ago — for example , there be the change with the recourse provide to LGBT veteran — that do not mean that we should not be hold to account for our lack of action , for fail to protect trans people properly or for the increase in hate crime that we be see . it be absolutely right that Pride organisation should be able to use their voice to say to every one of we in this House , " you be not do good enough . you need to do well . we need you to do more in order to protect the community . " if that be the way they choose to use their voice , they should absolutely go for it . I take part in our Pride in Aberdeen , as I have do on many occasion , include the first one 25 year ago . I march with the crowd , as I always do in the Pride parade — not with out for Independence , but with all the people I represent . it be the case that every one of we in this place need to do well . we need to improve life for our trans constituent . we need to fight this roll back of right , because people be terrified , and they be right to be pretty scared right now . today we raise a toast to Pride , and in so do , we raise a toast to nothing less than life . we also recommit to liberation — the liberation of lesbian , gay , bisexual and tran people . there be a particular quotation that I like , which be this : " queerness be essentially about the rejection of a here and now and an insistence on potentiality … for another world . " Jos é Mu ñ oz write that , and right now we should be insist on that new world hard than ever . when Pride be about liberation , it be not merely about the liberation of LGBT + people ; it be about the liberation of all . although Pride be primarily of , by and for the people who dance under the same rainbow , it be also about liberation from prejudice . when LGBT + people be safe , society be safe . my life as a gay man be enhance by the last Labour Government sweep away the 1980 and early 1990 — the discriminatory legislation that foster a hostile environment for LGBT + people — but that progress have stall . the introduction of equal marriage feel a very long time ago . right now , in this place , we must pass the law that LGBT + people be demand and that they need , so that no one be punish for be who they be or harm for love who they love . we know the harm of inaction , and we know the harm of a slowness to act . even if people be not physically attack or verbally insult — but they will be — young people may grow up with the feeling that they be unworthy of love . they may grow up with the expectation never to love , nor to trust it when it appear . they may grow up without the ability to form relationship . as ever , 1980s pop music say it well : " when I look back upon my life it ' s always with a sense of shame I ' ve always be the one to blame for everything I long to do no matter when or where or who have one thing in common too it ' s a sin . " that speak so beautifully about the ugliness of the shame that LGBT + people be make to feel . I commend our Government for take significant step to support LGBT + veteran , and for announce that they would make strand of hate crime target at disabled and LGBT + people an aggravated offence . I be proud to sponsor an amendment to the Crime and Policing Bill , table by my hon . friend the Member for North Warwickshire and Bedworth ( Rachel Taylor ) , and I be pleased to hear the Minister speak about the progress of our Government in implement our manifesto commitment to bring forward a truly trans - inclusive conversion therapy ban and to modernise , simplify and reform the intrusive and outdated gender recognition law and introduce a new process . I only have a few second leave , so I will close by say this : let this Pride month be the spur that drive we on , not in another decade but in the rest of this decade , and not in another Parliament but in what I hope will be the first moment of a new , progressive Parliament . let I start by wish a happy Pride Month to member of the LGBT + community on Ynys M ô n and beyond . Pride Month be , of course , a time for celebration , a time to reflect on the vital contribution of member of the LGBTQ + community to our society , and a time to renew our conviction that everyone deserve to love and live freely and openly , without the threat of bigotry . but this Pride Month be also a time of deep unease for many member of the community ; in the wake of the Supreme Court ' s rule on sex and gender in the Equality Act 2010 and the ensue interim guidance publish by the Equality and Human Rights Commission , many trans people be live in fear of what the future hold . the word of the trailblaze Welsh trans author Jan Morris seem particularly pertinent today . she find fame in 1953 as the sole reporter on the successful British Everest expedition , and become a prolific historian and travel writer . in her groundbreaking 1974 autobiography , she write : " I never do think that my own conundrum be a matter either of science or of social convention . . . what be important be the liberty of we all to live as we wish to live , to love however we want to love , and to know ourselves , however peculiar , disconcert or unclassifiable , at one with the god and angel . " it be , of course , in this place that many of the landmark decision on allow people to live and love freely have take place , but work remain to create a society that be fair and more inclusive for all . one of my constituent be an LGBTQ + veteran , discharge from the military owe to his sexuality — before 2000 , when the ban on open service of LGBTQ + people be lift . the late Lord Etherton report on a number of recommendation in 2023 to provide redress for the injustice , but shockingly , in response to more than 1 , 000 application , only 24 payment have be make as at 21 May this year . I urge the Government to do all they can to expedite the process , and to apologise formally for this historic wrong . this month we rightly reflect on the huge stride forward that have make our society a more open and inclusive place for the LGBTQ + community , but as the injustice face the trans community and LGBT veteran demonstrate , we must redouble our effort to build a society in which everyone have the liberty to live as they wish . let we all recommit ourselves to that work together . I draw member to my declaration of interest . as many of we know , the Pride movement start with the Stonewall riot in 1969 , but some people now see Pride as a party . it certainly do not start that way , and for many of we it be still a protest and will continue to be so until we genuinely do not need Pride anymore . my Pride journey start as a bystander , until I become a councillor in 2018 , when somebody decide to post literature all around the town of Basildon , tell the LGBT community to repent . instead of get angry , we organise Basildon mini - Pride within two week and show that we be here to stay . it turn into a full - on Pride that be still go strong , with a programme of event throughout the year as part of the Basildon Pride Everyday programme . I be proud to still be chair of trustee for that Pride , and thank all its member and the volunteer who contribute to its work . may I celebrate my wonderful hon . friend for his role in found Basildon Pride ? will he join I in commend York Pride and its 17 , 000 visitor for celebrate the wonderful LGBTQ + community that we have in York ? will he also join I in condemn any abuse , harassment or intimidation — at any Pride event — that be drive by who someone be , who they love or what they believe ? absolutely . I celebrate York Pride , and I thank its organiser for what they contribute . we stand up against discrimination at Pride event and outside ; it be unacceptable . I have to mention my team at Southend Pride , which come into be the year before Basildon Pride . they , too , put on an annual festival and event throughout the year , include a winter Pride . I try to work closely with Southend Pride , and today I recommit my dedication to support it and the LGBTQ + community in Southend and Leigh - on - Sea . I thank the whole team for their dedication : Cath , Sam , Louis , Yvonne , Amber and everyone else involve . we have to face some uncomfortable truth . pride around the country be fold and cancel this year , and many be struggle to get the funding that they usually have , from big event like Liverpool Pride to those in Southampton and Plymouth . the challenge around diversity , equity and inclusion , and the change attitude of company — especially those with american parent — do not help . the attitude that " Prides be no long need , because it ' s all sorted " also do not help . I can tell the House that Prides be need now more than ever . personally , I know that I be not equal : I can not comfortably walk along the street hold my partner ' s hand or give my partner a kiss . in the good case , I will get stare ; in the bad case , I will get verbal or physical abuse . that be a fact — it be how it be today — so I be pleased that my hon . friend the Member for North Warwickshire and Bedworth ( Rachel Taylor ) have bring forward measure to make LGBT hate crime an aggravate offence . we have hear all about the impact that the Supreme Court ruling have have on trans people , who need our allyship more than ever . they need guidance issue that truly support the fact that they , too , be cover by the protection in the Equality Act 2010 . in recent year I have be work closely with an organisation call TransLucent , whose chief executive officer , Steph , be in the Gallery today . it be a great organisation that positively advocate for the trans community , and it be try to take the heat out of the debate and make sure that trans people be look after and respect . I will continue to stand as a trans ally , and I know many of my labour colleague will , too . I encourage Prides across the movement to keep engage with we and challenge we , but do not shut we out . challenge we , and we be here to help . they have our commitment that we will make sure that trans people and the LGBTQ + community be go to be treat as equal in this country . as a straight man , I can not speak from personal experience about the prejudice that LGBTQIA + people have be the victim of , nor have I be a coalminer and experience the feeling of have the source of my livelihood snatch away . however , in this Pride Month debate , I wish to share with the House a collaboration that emphasise the importance of allyship and — something this House do not hear nearly enough about — class solidarity . this collaboration be between the London - base activist group Lesbians and Gays support the Miners and the mining community of the Dulais valley in south Wales during the miner ' strike of 1984 to 1985 . co - founder of the LGSM , Mark Ashton and Mike Jackson , be inspire to combine gay right activism with the labour movement after attend a talk by a striking miner . this duo bring collection bucket to the London Lesbian and Gay Pride march in June 1984 to support the miner and their family who be affect by the financial hardship cause by the strike . the LGSM be subsequently set up to officially declare that member of the gay right movement support the strike miner , because the LGSM strongly believe that solidarity between the work class be essential , as all of they would be suppress if the Thatcher Government succeed in weaken the National Union of Mineworkers and the wide trade union movement . indeed , the miner and the LGSM share very similar experience and common ground , as both be target and vilify by a right - wing medium , police brutality and the Government of the day . attitude towards the gay community soon begin to change in the mining community . the LGSM visit south Wales , with the mining community reciprocate the solidarity and friendship show to they by the LGSM . I just want to correct one thing in the film " Pride " , which be the plot my hon . friend be refer to . the south Wales valley mining community — I represent the Rhondda and Ogmore — be portray as openly hostile to the lesbian and gay and , in fact , bisexual who come down to support their cause . that be far from true ; there be almost unanimous support for they . I very much thank the Minister for that correction — I appreciate the intervention — and for subtly drop in my mispronunciation of south Wales . by the end of the strike , the LGSM have raise over £ 20 , 000 . as the Welsh mining community have make the Londoners feel so welcome , the LGSM organise a return visit , with a fundraiser call " Pits and Perverts " hold at the Electric Ballroom in Camden . despite the defeat of the mining industry , south Wales miner and their family march alongside the LGSM at a Pride march in London the follow year . at the height of the HIV / AIDS epidemic , this allyship be much need . on 11 February 1987 , LGSM founder Mark Ashton die of an AIDS - relate illness , and his funeral be attend by many of the miner whom he have support through the LGSM . in a wide context , the NUM acknowledge the support show by the gay community during the strike when the union call for gay equality at the 1985 Labour party conference and Trades Union Congress . in addition , the NUM back the campaign against the hateful and harmful section 28 , which be pass in 1988 by the Conservative Government . altogether , the collaboration of those in the gay right movement and the labour movement highlight the share struggle and solidarity across community bound by oppression and class interest . our labour movement must therefore show unwavering support to those in the LGBTQIA + community , many of whom will march this summer to demand equality and protest against the rise in homophobia and transphobia . as the gay and lesbian and the miner show in the 1980 , when two very different community come under attack from prejudice and form an unlikely alliance to fight for what be right in the face of persecution , then understanding , kindness , respect and solidarity happen , and those emotion always win . in 1986 , I go to my first ever Pride . it be hard to believe , but that be nearly 40 year ago . I remember be strike by how much of a celebration and a protest it be . I remember how important it be to be visible . I feel proud of who I be for the first time . I hope people feel that this year when they attend their first Pride event . I could not have predict what be to happen just two year later . in 1988 , section 28 be enact . that year , I attend Pride alongside many angry and distraught friend . I remember section 28 vividly . it be more than a law : it be an attack on the right of people like I to live openly . it stigmatise lesbian , gay and bisexual people . it push we out of public life . I get into politic to fight that cruel law and everything it represent . the 1988 Pride be a protest . it be a reminder that LGBT people have always and will always exist , and we deserve to live our life publicly and with dignity . my friend and I walk down the street of London and make sure we be hear . we refuse to be silent . this Labour Government have pledge to ban conversion therapy . last week in the House , I encourage the Government to fulfil their manifesto commitment . I make the case for aggravated offence to be treat the same for all people , regardless of what kind of hate it be . all hate should be treat the same . I be proud to see our government reaffirm that that would be the case . Britain be a country that will not tolerate hate . all hatred be equal and all those who commit vile act of hatred will face the same grave consequence . today , I be concerned that the progress make by previous Labour Governments have be erode . we be see rise transphobia everywhere and I , for one , will not stand for it . pride flag be be take down at county hall , and only last year an advertisement for my local Pride on social medium be meet with the response , " gas the lot of they . " it be a reminder to all of we this Pride Month that we must stand together with trans people and reject transphobia with the same anger and passion that we reject homophobia all those year ago . I will continue to stand proudly with all member of the LGBT community and our ally this Pride Month as we celebrate and protest . in the word of the organisation Stonewall : " Pride Month 2025 be ground in this year ' s powerful theme , activism and social change . it ' s a reminder of how far the LGBTQI + community have come and how much work still need to be do . " I would like to thank Stonewall , Trans + Solidarity Alliance and Rainbow Migration for their vital work , which I have rely on in understand the challenging issue face the LGBT + community . Rainbow Migration in particular support LGBT + people through the asylum and immigration system . its work be pivotal to a number of constituent of mine who have flee their country and identify as LGBT + . they be seek support in the UK , where they can feel like their true self . Rainbow Migration have ask Home Office Ministers to remove blanket inadmissibility provision for so - call " safe state " such as Albania , Georgia and India . for example , Noah , a gay georgian and former service user of Rainbow Migration , have the follow live experience of a " safe state " . Noah flee homophobic persecution in Georgia . he be extremely fearful of be send back there , say that he would rather take his own life than go back and face persecution . he say : " no one can know that you be gay in Georgia . if people do , homophobic people will try to attack you . either with word , or they ' ll try to beat you . " Noah be physically attack by family member . he be force to stay in a hospital for people with mental health issue and have an exorcism perform on he at church . thankfully , he be grant refugee status due to the risk of harm , but he be deeply concerned about Georgia ' s designation as safe . he say : " Georgia can not be consider a safe country . they don ' t know what be go on in Georgia — how the LGBT people be live there . they can not understand . the last time that Pride take place , the television operator be kill . who will come and say Georgia be a safe country after that ? if you ' re gay , your two option be either hospital or exorcism . " how can we in this country describe Georgia as safe for LGBT people ? in 1997 , under the last Labour Government , the first positive recognition of same - sex relationship in UK law be introduce for migrant . the unmarried partner concession make it possible for same - sex couple to make an application for a partner of a british citizen to remain in the UK if they have live together for four year . it pave the way for great legislative equality for same - sex couple , and it be the first time same - sex relationship be recognise positively in british law . be an ally be about reflect on how to contribute to last social change and act on that reflection , so I agree with Rainbow Migration in call for an asylum and immigration system that treat LGBT people with dignity . unfortunately , the UK ' s current legal framework for deal with inequality and discrimination be creak under the weight of the culture war . legislation such as the Equality Act 2010 and the Human Rights Act 1998 , which be design to protect the most marginal and vulnerable in society , have be weaponise by those who seek to promote exclusion and social division , with this year ' s Supreme Court ruling and the subsequent guidance by the ehrc cause widespread fear among the trans community . at a time of rise discrimination , the UK should reassert its commitment to the value of equality , instead of create a set of contested right that dehumanise the most marginalised . it can do this in a powerful way by sign and ratify protocol 12 to the european convention on human right , which create a general prohibition on discrimination . the UK be one of only nine country in the Council of Europe not to have sign protocol 12 . everyone in the UK would benefit from access to the human right of the general prohibition on discrimination , include lgbtqi + people . I will start by answer the question that be so often ask , first under the breath , and then in the dark corner of the internet , and now , in some place , in the unfortunate mainstream : why do we have Pride ? why do we need Pride ? the answer be that for far too many people , even in the Britain of 2025 — one of the great place in the world to be LGBT , I believe — be yourself and be who you be feel like a trial and a struggle , and it be just not good enough . we need it because too many LGBT people be attack , abuse or dismiss because of their sexuality , and because even in our free country , too many LGBT people have to constantly check that they be not behave in too gay a fashion in order to avoid incite anyone or give too much away for their own safety , or even due to fear of be othere . we need it because too many LGBT people be homeless and too many LGBT adult be experience mental health condition or suffering from drug or alcohol abuse or poverty as a result of their sexuality . it look like a parade and a party on the street , but Pride be about acknowledge that struggle — the struggle for respect and equality , and to breathe as freely as everyone else . the history of Pride be always a reminder that so many have come before we , and that they endure not just the harassment , but , in this country , the criminalisation , the chemical castration , the shaming , the ostracisation , the bullying and name and the punching and spitting — as I be spat at once , on Manchester ' s Canal Street . it be a reminder of those who be kill or not care for during the AIDS epidemic — those who be leave to die , consider diseased or craze . it be on those brave shoulder that openly gay LGB and t people like I stand in 2025 . I will say now that transgender people deserve our respect and support , and that I believe in LGB with the t . sure , we have come a long way . some place let people marry who they love , and lot more folk understand the beautiful umbrella that exist within our community . however , the truth be that it be not the same everywhere , and it can change fast , as the Minister say . there be still many country where someone be who they be can land they in jail or condemn they to death . even here in the UK , both the conservative candidate for my constituency and I have our sexuality parade around , comment on and weaponise by other candidate at last year ' s election , as if it be a slight on our character . I say to my now constituent at the election , " I be who I be . dislike I for my politic and my opinion , but do not disengage because of who I love . by the way , as much as I be go door to door , I ' m not try to convert anyone , although we be a very broad church . " I be proud that in all the community in my constituency , respect and tolerance find more of a home than hate . I say to my constituent in Burnley , Padiham and Brierfield who be lesbian , gay , bisexual and transgender , from all creed and caste , I be here to represent you as much as anyone else . my hon . friend have work very hard on the issue of compensation for LGBT veteran because of the disgraceful way they be treat by the british state , which have be raise at various point this evening . I wonder whether he would comment more on that and on Lord Etherton ' s landmark report . I thank my hon . friend for that intervention , and I absolutely will . one of the first experience I have as an MP be be approach by a constituent , Steven , whom I have not meet during the election campaign , and who have now receive compensation for his disgraceful treatment when he be a member of the armed force . I meet Lord Etherton during that time and we have an Adjournment debate . it be a much long story , and I come in right at the end of it , as so many mp do , but I be proud to have meet he and experience the work he have put into represent those man and woman who have serve our country so valiantly and have be so harshly let down . this month be the chance for we to be with our people — the people who accept we , who welcome we and who care . wear a lanyard be not a political statement ; it be a statement of respect . raise a rainbow flag on a building be not a political statement — I just want to say how proud I be that my hon . friend be here in this Chamber as an LGBT MP . do he share my pride in everyone who be here take part in the debate this evening ? absolutely . I be so proud of my hon . friend and everybody else who have contribute to the debate , whether LGBT or an ally . I stand here as an openly gay man , but ally have talk about film — " Pride " and thing — that they have see . it be important for we all to be here and to recognise Pride , and I thank my hon . friend for her intervention . wear a lanyard or put a flag on a building be not a political statement ; it be a sign of respect . say that you be an ally or that you just plain do not care either way , but you support people to live how they want to live , be not a political statement ; it be a statement of respect . respect be what we should be about in this country . it be a very british thing , whatever our side or our politic , and I quite like that about the country that we live in . life be more than black and white ; it be fill with wonderful colour . above all , there be something quite powerful in say , " this be I and I be proud of it . " that joy push back against all the shame and silence that we have face over the year , and that we still face now . as long as anyone feel the need to hide who they be , this month will be need . happy Pride month to people in the Chamber and people in Burnley , Padiham and Brierfield . I have not intend to say what I be about to say , before the bit that I do intend to say , but , inspire by the Minister ' s comment that come out matter , I think I would use this very public forum to say that I be a bisexual woman . some people know ; some do not . I do not wear it like a badge any more than I would expect a heterosexual person to walk around say , " hey , guess what , I ' m attract to man " — or woman , depend what gender they be , or otherwise . the reason that I feel compel to mention that publicly , before I get on to the good bit of my speech — please , somebody , intervene on I — be that I hold back on show my support for the LGBTQ + community on my Facebook page for fear of retribution ahead of the local election , when a certain party get into power at Derbyshire county council . try to appease that kind of support do not win any vote , so after that happen , I double down on what I believe in and who I be . I post in support of the day against Transphobia , Biphobia and Homophobia , and I say , " if you dare make a negative comment , or anything allude to one , such as , ' what be a woman ? ' , you will be block from my page , because there ' s fall on the right side of history and there ' s fall on the wrong side of history , and you be wrong . " I congratulate the hon . member on take this opportunity to say what she have say . it be not easy to say something like that in a Chamber like this . have do something similar not that long ago , I absolutely respect she , and I join she in celebrate Pride month . and have an extra minute . I thank the hon . member for her intervention — and for give I an extra minute , in which I would like to talk about my community . I have one main hope about say what I have just say and be openly bisexual . my daughter be so straight — it be so disappointing — [ Laughter . ] but if there be girl and woman in South Derbyshire and across the country who think , " oh God , it be okay to love a woman , to kiss a woman , to be intimate with a woman — and she ' s say it , so it ' s okay that I do , " then good . I say to they : take that comfort , and if you want to talk to I about it , please feel free to reach out . now I be go to talk about my constituency . it be an honour to speak in this important debate on Pride , not just as the Member of Parliament for South Derbyshire but as someone who have see at first hand the power of community when it choose inclusion over exclusion and love over fear . this past Saturday , I have the privilege of attend a truly fantastic Pride event at the Collective Hub in Swadlincote . the Collective Hub be a brilliant community space that foster creativity , belong and support for people of all age . the Pride celebration it host be testament to everything that make our community proud : diversity , resilience and joy . I want to pay particular tribute to Mikey , who lead the hub with passion , care and unwavere dedication . his work do not go unnoticed . he and all those who support the event create a safe and welcome space . on the point the hon . Lady make about her constituent , the length and breadth of this country be fill by people who do their bit and go above and beyond . will the hon . Lady join I in congratulate the people in my constituency who do exactly that ? I absolutely join the hon . member in thank the people in his constituency who do the same . Mikey ' s work do not go unnoticed . he and all those who support the event create a safe , welcome space for LGBTQ + people in South Derbyshire to be visible , celebrated and , perhaps most importantly , to be themselves . amid the colour and celebration , we must recognise a deep undercurrent of concern , particularly among our transgender constituent . I have hear directly from individual who be frightened about the tone of national conversation surround their right , safety and dignity . these be not abstract issue ; these be people in our town and village — our neighbour , friend and family member . they deserve the same right , respect and freedom as anyone else . I agree with what my hon . friend be say ; these be normal people in our community . do she agree that it be really important that we be ally of these people and that we stand with they ? I completely agree with my hon . friend that allyship be important . I be the proud mum to a very disappointingly straight daughter , and she be a brilliant ally . I hope that the next generation will continue to be exactly like that and will create the atmosphere that be need to support those who we stand side - by - side with . in South Derbyshire , I believe the message be clear : we want inclusion , not exclusion . we want a society where someone be themselves be not a political act but simply a human one . pride be not just about celebration ; it be about commitment — commitment to equality , justice and stand up for those whose voice have too often be marginalise . let we remember that Pride begin as a protest . it be a reminder that the freedom we now celebrate be hard - won and must be protect , not roll back . in the face of rise hostility and misinformation , we in this House have a duty to lead with compassion and courage . to the LGBTQ + community in South Derbyshire , we see you , we hear you , and we stand with you . it be an honour to speak in celebration of Pride Month and to have listen to all hon . member . I want to recognise the outstanding contribution of individual and organisation in Portsmouth North who work tirelessly to support our LGBT + community and who work hard to ensure that we have a UK Pride this year . I thank the dedicated team at Pompey Pride , whose vibrant event and year - round advocacy promote inclusivity and visibility ; the incredible support provide by the Portsmouth LGBT + community forum ; TransLucent , which my hon . friend the Member for Southend West and Leigh ( David Burton - Sampson ) have already praise ; the YOU Trust , which offer specialist help to LGBT people face homelessness or domestic abuse ; and the fantastic Fight with Pride , a military charity lead a great campaign . our city should stand proud of our LGBT community , as I stand in this place a proud ally of they . school and institution such as the University of Portsmouth and Portsmouth college proudly continue to foster inclusivity , and local business , trade union and the city council be demonstrate leadership by champion equality in the workplace . pride be not just a celebration but a commitment to dignity , respect and human right , which in a sometimes hostile world we must continue to push for all . I be proud of the action of this Government and other government , both historically and currently . I be proud of the change to bring about the equal age of consent , the repeal of section 28 , the Civil Partnership Act 2004 , the commitment to ban conversion therapy and strengthen hate crime protection , and the commitment to implement Lord Etherton ' s report . I thank the Minister and the shadow Minister for their combined and positive word in speak up on behalf of our trans community , who be at this moment feel very fragile and face a very difficult world . I commend and want to thank all in Portsmouth North who through their action be seek to make our city of Portsmouth more open , compassionate , equal and a beautiful place for all to live . when we think about Pride and the need to still have Pride in 2025 in the UK , we must remember that love should not be a limitation but our great freedom , because in embrace who we be , we help the world become more authentic and more compassionate . in a world where this be not always possible , we must all continue to stand together , speak up and speak out until we be all truly free to love who we want . I call the shadow Minister . I thank the many hon . member in the Chamber for their swift and heartfelt contribution ; everybody contribute brilliantly . I also wish everyone a very happy Pride Month , include my constituent in East Grinstead , Uckfield and the village . the ethos of the Conservatives be exactly about meaningful change and put the individual at the centre of policymake . it be the conservative party that be about freedom to be who you be . we be here to campaign for you and to support you , for a well future for you and everyone . as we have hear this evening , it be about respect , love and care for all that matter . I have quote before — this have stick with I — the word of my friend and former colleague Elliot Colburn . in a previous debate , he say : " LGBT + people have always exist ; we do not just pop out of the ground in the 1960 and 1970 and start march through the street of London and other city . " — [ Official Report , 7 March 2024 ; Vol . 746 , c . 393WH . ] his and Jed ' s wedding be back in my diary . they have much to do to top what be a great engagement night . the change that we have hear about across the globe , include in Thailand and India , be absolutely welcome . it be just as vital that we have right the wrong do to our service personnel . on Saturday , I will be in East Grinstead for an Armed Forces Day event with constituent and thinking of those who have tell and share with I their terrible , abhorrent experience in the force , like some of those bravely retell this evening . I agree with the hon . member for Portsmouth North ( Amanda Martin ) about the fantastic contribution make by fight with Pride . we have hear about family come in all shape and size and how important that be . in 2022 , the Conservative Government rightly and vitally remove the barrier to IVF for lesbian couple , as highlight by my hon . friend the Member for Runnymede and Weybridge ( Dr Spencer ) . he also talk about the importance of family life for all couple . it be vital to recognise that parent and family come in different shape and form , include single parent . I have always love to highlight that single parent can do this job . the hon . member for Chatham and Aylesford ( Tristan Osborne ) talk about the importance of local Pride campaign . that point be echo across the Chamber — I could not keep up — about campaign in York , Basildon and Southend , and a winter Pride event where it sound like there would be far too many clothe ! I very much enjoy the geography lesson on where to go . it be also important to reflect on politician , what we do and how we have make a difference . the Minister of State remind we that there be always more to do and that we should take nothing for grant . we have have a lovely , light - hearted debate for the most part . do the hon . Lady agree that leader of political party have power through their word ? would she push for her party in particular to ensure that , when it come to LGBT right , we consider the humanity that we be talk about and do not whip up hate ? I think that hon . member hear from the Conservative Front Bench a young man from Anglesey — my right hon . friend the Member for Daventry ( Stuart Andrew ) — speak very much about what the challenge be for he live in an isolated , rural area , just as we hear from the hon . member for Ynys M ô n ( Llinos Medi ) . it be right that we should put safety , dignity and the freedom to live your life at the heart of everything we do . my right hon . friend be right that we be all leader in our own way . that be why I be so proud that we conservative set the ambitious and absolutely right goal of end all new HIV case by 2030 . my right hon . friend the Member for Daventry put that challenge to the Front - Bench team for this Parliament . perhaps if the Minister ' s party have not be quite so successful at the election , we would have even more of my gay and lesbian colleague leave on my Benches to keep champion that cause . it be unfortunate that there be not more conservative Members here this evening take part in this debate . that speak volume . I welcome the hon . Lady ' s warm word and the warm word of her colleague in his opening remark , but those word will sound hollow unless they start challenge their leader to do what be right for LGBT people up and down this country . I think the same go for all party . obviously , MPs ' diary have different challenge and commitment . I be delighted that my right hon . friend the Member for Daventry make it — he be stick on a train for most of this evening . he mention that we do not want Wales , Scotland or Northern Ireland to fall behind when it come to strive for no new case of HIV by 2030 in all part of the United Kingdom . I be delighted to be deejaye at the LGBT Tories event at the Conservative party conference . as we have hear , the conference can come alive , apparently . the Deputy Speaker early point out he have not recently be to a Labour one . maybe he will come to my dj night . I will be follow the guest turn from my hon . friend the Member for Rutland and Stamford ( Alicia Kearns ) , and hope that some of my colleague , such as Chris Clarkson , formerly of this parish , will be there . I also want to pay tribute to Luke Robert Black , who get his mbe in December 2024 for his work with LGBT conservative . as we hear tonight , it be 50 year since both Labour and the Conservatives start those really important group . there have be quite a nice cross - party feeling to the debate tonight , and that have be encouraging . there have also be some mention of trailblazer . I realise this be probably a little bit embarrassing for those on our Front Bench , but the Minister who open the debate , my hon . friend the Member for Rhondda and Ogmore ( Chris Bryant ) , have be through quite a lot and write quite extensively about the role of LGBT people in public life , about the role of Parliament and about his own role as a Minister and an MP . will the shadow Minister join I in praise he as one of those trailblazer in this place ? I be always happy to praise the hon . Gentleman . the last time we have a chat he call I a very rude woman , so I have some make up to do — I hope that be exactly what he be pleased about . of course , it be really important to have trailblazer , and as we have hear , be an ally be absolutely vital . I be go to mention the hon . member for Burnley ( Oliver Ryan ) showcase just how much that matter . I must also mention my former colleague , Maria Caulfield , now CBE . her passion and commitment to well HIV treatment and her focus on tackle the stigma around HIV and mental health be really important . I also want to mention the hon . member for South Derbyshire ( Samantha Niblett ) , who speak up about be openly bisexual and proud of it . that will help other who watch this debate in relation to be out and be who they be . I too have daughter who be not as diverse as I be hope for , but we live in hope . it be I that be the challenge , not they . this debate show exactly why we need Pride Month and why we need to make it count . we need the humour and humanity . Pride Month emphasise reflection on all the contribution , both historically and now , that LGBT + individual and community make towards create a well world , and we as politician in this House can continue to be part of this story and help all LGBT people to thrive , not just in their sexuality but in every part of their life — their community , their career and whatever they want life to look like . I thank all member for their contribution and hope that we can work together actively and positively across the Chamber to continue to make positive change for LGBT people . of course , as we reflect on Pride and its theme of activism and social change , we must continue to challenge stigma , include view in my own party , and prejudice . we need to be clear that all political party be here for you no matter who you be , where you live and who you love , and that you should never feel unsafe or worried about who you be . we will always work together to strive for dignity , inclusion and compassion . after all , love be love . I hope the House will forgive I if I do not have time to mention everybody , because we have have such a wide - range debate with so many people take part . I thank member from across the House for their heartfelt and thoughtful contribution , particularly my hon . friend the Member for South Derbyshire ( Samantha Niblett ) for come out in the Chamber about her sexuality , which be a difficult and emotional thing to do . the tone of the debate be very much one of celebration . member say how they perhaps never would have expect to have the celebration in their home town , like in Macclesfield , that they see now . member celebrate political achievement and note the 50th anniversary of both the Conservative and Labour LGBT + society . we celebrate that progress have be make , but the real tone be that we have to renew our effort and that we can not be complacent or let any backsliding happen . Pride Month be a time not only for celebration but for reflection . today we have hear story of struggle , progress and hope . this debate have remind we that LGBT + equality be not a single milestone to be pass , but an ongoing commitment — one that must be renew and reinforce by each generation . it have underscore the principle that have guide this Government from day one : every person , regardless of their sexuality or gender identity , deserve dignity , safety and respect . I will now address some of the serious issue that member have raise . the Opposition spokesman who open the debate and former Equalities Minister , the right hon . member for Daventry ( Stuart Andrew ) , ask in particular about the HIV prevention programme . I can tell he — if he be here — and hon . member that only last week I be at the Terrence Higgins Trust on what would have be Terrence ' s 80th birthday . I congratulate the trust on its excellent work , particularly in the HIV Prevention England programme , which we be fund to the tune of some £ 4 . 5 million . we be in the process of produce an action plan , which will be publish this year . of course , we absolutely stick to our commitment of try to end new transmission of HIV within England by 2030 . I have also visit Fast Track Cymru , which be work innovatively across Wales , include in rural area , so hopefully we will make considerable progress . several colleague mention veteran . as they will know , the Government acknowledge the hurt cause by the historic ban on LGBT personnel serve in the armed force between 1967 and 2000 . last year , we launch the LGBT financial recognition scheme with a budget of up to £ 75 million — 50 % high than the previously agree amount . the scheme intend to provide recognition to those impact by the ban , and we recognise the need to work quickly through the 1 , 000 - plus application we have receive . we understand the need for timeliness in deliver the scheme and be work closely with stakeholder . applicant can receive update on gov . uk . many member have raise the implication of the Supreme Court judgment . I acknowledge the deep concern and anxiety that many people feel follow the recent Supreme Court ruling and its potential implication for tran people . I know that for many , this decision have raise serious question about right , safety and belong . I want those people to know that we hear those concern and recognise the very real impact this moment be have on member of the trans community , their family and ally . but let I be clear : the right and protection of trans people under the Equality Act remain firmly in place . the protect characteristic of gender reassignment still apply . discrimination , harassment or victimisation of trans people be unlawful and will remain so . the independent Equality and Human Rights Commission , Britain ' s equality watchdog , be currently consult on its draft update code of practice for service , public function and association to reflect the judgment and to provide guidance for service provider and employer . we expect the ehrc to seek and listen to a wide range of view through its consultation , which close on 30 June , and I encourage people to ensure that their view be hear by submit a response . the consultation will inform the ehrc ' s final draft ; the Government will then consider that draft . we will review the guidance carefully , ensure that it reflect both the legal clarity of the Court and our endure value of inclusion , safety and respect for all , and it will be subject to full parliamentary scrutiny . I would like to pay particular tribute to my hon . friend the Member for North Warwickshire and Bedworth ( Rachel Taylor ) for her determined campaigning to introduce measure to tackle LGBT + hate crime . this Government be absolutely committed to tackle all form of hate crime , and we will deliver on our manifesto commitment to equalise all exist strand of hate crime and make they aggravate offence in the Crime and Policing Bill as it progress through the other place . this will ensure parity of protection for LGBT + and disabled people . I want to take the time to pay tribute to the Minister for her unwavering support throughout what have be a very difficult year so far for LGBT people , and for the trailblazing work that she and my hon . friend the Member for Rhondda and Ogmore ( Chris Bryant ) , who be sit next to she , have do for our community . I thank my hon . friend for those kind comment , and I pay tribute to all the member who have take part today . on this side of the House , we have hear from my hon . friend the Members for Portsmouth North ( Amanda Martin ) , for Leeds North West ( Katie White ) , for Glasgow North ( Martin Rhodes ) , for Chatham and Aylesford ( Tristan Osborne ) , for Macclesfield ( Tim Roca ) , for Bournemouth East ( Tom Hayes ) , for Southend West and Leigh ( David Burton - Sampson ) , for Alloa and Grangemouth ( Brian Leishman ) , for North Warwickshire and Bedworth , for Burnley ( Oliver Ryan ) , for South Derbyshire , and for Leeds Central and Headingley ( Alex Sobel ) — to respond to his point about asylum seeker , the Home Office proceed on a case - by - case basis and try to deal sensitively with each case . from the Opposition Benches , we have hear from the Front Benchers , include the hon . member for North Cornwall ( Ben Maguire ) , who speak for the Lib Dems , and from the hon . member for Runnymede and Weybridge ( Dr Spencer ) from the Conservatives , the hon . member for Harrogate and Knaresborough ( Tom Gordon ) from the Liberal Democrats , the hon . member for Aberdeen North ( Kirsty Blackman ) from the SNP and the hon . member for Ynys M ô n ( Llinos Medi ) from Plaid Cymru , who mention Jan Morris . I thank all hon . member for their contribution ; I hope I have not miss anybody out . as this debate draw to a close , let we return to the spirit that Pride have always embody : not only visibility , but solidarity ; not only protest , but progress ; not only celebration , but courage . let we remember that the right we defend today be win by those who stand up , often at great personal risk , so that other might live freely . let we recommit to build a society where no one be make to feel invisible , unsafe or alone because of who they be , who they love or how they live their truth . this government will continue to stand with LGBT + people here in the UK and around the world . we will continue to deliver on the promise that we have make . above all , we will continue to defend the value that uplift we all : dignity and respect for all . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider Pride Month . access to GPs Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Keir Mather . ) the ability to access GPs and maintain face - to - face appointment be a pressing issue that affect not just my constituency of North Down but constituency across the UK . across England , Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland , considerable inequality exist in access to GP service . evidence indicate that Northern Ireland receive the low investment in GP service among the four region of the UK . I acknowledge that we live in an era of high - tech advancement and rapid change in healthcare delivery . I be intrigue by the potential of electronic prescribing and artificial intelligence to enhance our healthcare system . however , amid these innovation , access to GP service remain as crucial as ever . access to GP service be a cornerstone of the NHS , provide a fundamental element that allow the health service to operate effectively . however , when compare the datum , I find it concern that during the same period , 70 % of GP appointment in England be conduct face to face compare with only 45 % in Northern Ireland . motion lapse ( Standing Order no . 9 ( 3 ) ) . motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Keir Mather . ) although the figure in Northern Ireland have recently increase to 57 % , the disparity remain worry . I be confident that every MP aspire to see good access to GP service throughout the UK and to preserve the essential interaction within GP care that be vital to the health and wellbeing of our nation . GPs be often the first point of contact for medical attention and their role be vital . I commend their comprehensive effort in tackle acute illness , manage chronic disease and provide preventive care , among other crucial responsibility . however , as the MP for North Down , I share the concern of many regard the grow demand for GP healthcare service and the accessibility of these essential service for my constituent . I commend the hon . member for North Down ( Alex Easton ) . he be my neighbour and have be my friend for many year . we serve in the Assembly before we ever come here . it be a pleasure to see he secure what I understand be his first Adjournment debate ; it will be the first of many , no doubt . do the hon . Gentleman agree that trust in some GP surgery have diminish due to the lack of face - to - face contact ? while send photograph and have discussion over the phone suit some work constituent , for other the lack of face - to - face interaction can mean that symptom be miss that can only be see face to face . do he also agree that GP surgery be struggle due to the lack of support , and that surgery throughout the UK must be give more help and assistance so that they can thereby provide more access for their patient ? I thank the hon . member for his intervention and I totally agree with everything he say . People across Northern Ireland be not able to see their gp as much as those in other part of the UK . that be lead to big frustration for our constituent . the lack of support and funding for GPs be add to the frustration that be feel across the board . this be a debate about GP access across the United Kingdom , but one issue in Northern Ireland be gps ' ability to access indemnity insurance , whereas in England and Wales there be a government - provide scheme . do the hon . Member agree that if the Government work with the Department of Health in Northern Ireland to allow our GPs to access that indemnity insurance scheme on a national level , it would ease some of the burden on our GPs ? I agree , and perhaps the Minister will take that point on board in look at how we can improve our GP service . one of the significant challenge across the UK be the shortage of GPs , which inevitably lead to long wait time and , unfortunately , sometimes to a compromise quality of care . on that point , 4 , 000 resident in Westvale Park , a new housing development in my constituency , be promise a gp , and they have legally bind section 106 agreement in place . the construction money be there for a gp surgery , but the NHS have not provide the operational funding require for a GP . do the hon . Gentleman agree that the NHS should be provide the operational funding for new GP service on housing development , and that the entire Government case for new housing development be undermine if this infrastructure be not provide ? I totally agree . there be no point in build new house if we be not go to put in the infrastructure , include health infrastructure and GPs . while I welcome initiative aim at recruit and retain GPs , it be concern that in Northern Ireland we have recruit only 121 GPs when we need 161 merely to restore the level we have in 2014 . the grow UK population , couple with increasingly complex health need , be exert significant pressure on exist resource . in Northern Ireland alone , the population have rise by 70 , 000 over a decade , while 38 GP practice have close — a reduction of 11 % . it seem clear that as the population grow , funding should increase . we must also recognise that since April 2023 , there have be 17 GP contract hand - back , result in a decrease of 12 gp practice , leave we with a total of 305 . do the hon . Member agree that we need to address the disparity he mention — the inequality in GP funding allocation — across the United Kingdom ? despite have some of the most deprived area with a high demand , the funding Wolverhampton receive be , on average , 10 % less than more affluent area . the ratio of GPs to patient be therefore low , which increase the length of time people have to wait to get an appointment with the GP . do he also agree that the experience of patient differ ? when I speak to my constituent in Wolverhampton West , they give I different account of the experience they have have and the level of service they have receive from their gp , depend on the surgery that they use . we need to achieve great consistency in access to GP surgery . I totally agree with everything the hon . Member say . there be area across the UK where there be inequality in people ' s access to GPs , and there need to be a level playing field across the board . we must consider value for money . evidence indicate that every £ 1 invest in GP service yield a £ 14 return for the local economy . let I revisit the crucial role of face - to - face appointment . in an increasingly digital world , it be pertinent to ask just how important in - person consultation truly be . while the question be valid , what remain crucial be that face - to - face interaction allow GPs to deliver holistic care that surpass what be achievable in the virtual environment . face - to - face appointment facilitate physical examination , which be indispensable for accurate diagnosis and treatment planning . while the advance in telemedicine be certainly welcome , physical examination remain essential for certain symptom and condition . in - person consultation be key to effective communication , as they enable GPs to observe non - verbal cue and facial expression that be crucial in understand a patient ' s need . such interaction foster trust , empathy and understanding , greatly enhance personalise care . this trust encourage patient to be more honest and forthcoming , directly contribute to improve health outcome . for many vulnerable group , such as the elderly or individual live with poor mental health , face - to - face appointment serve as a lifeline . they offer reassurance and a sense of connection , help to combat isolation and ensure comprehensive care . in 2022 , as we emerge from the covid pandemic , there be 9 . 7 million GP consultation in Northern Ireland . in 2023 , that number increase to 10 . 1 million . however , we must face the reality that one third of GP practice need the support of the practice improvement crisis response team . I be troubled that with private GP service , we risk create a two - tier system that exacerbate health inequality , both in North Down and across Northern Ireland and the rest of the UK . we must have a GP service that be accessible to all , not just a service reserve for those who can afford it . we need to invest in our GP workforce and develop effective retention strategy . I direct the House ' s attention to the 17 recommendation make by the Royal College of General Practitioners Northern Ireland in its document " a Workforce fit for the Future " , which warrant thorough consideration follow by decisive action . other solution , such as the Pharmacy First programme , deserve detailed consideration . that practice , enable across the UK , have be show to effectively serve deprive community and have real potential to alleviate the workload on our gps . therefore , this challenge be not a matter of choose one over the other , but rather of find a balance where digital and face - to - face service complement each other in deliver optimal healthcare . patient be become increasingly frustrated at not be able to speak to or see their GP . GPs be become increasingly frustrated at the ever - increase workload , which have a knock - on effect , with many people have to go to their near accident and emergency unit . those have some very long waiting time , and that add more pressure to the health system . I emphasise and underline that access to GP service and face - to - face appointment be vital to maintain a robust health system across the UK . as I finish , allow I to pose some question inform by the Royal College of General Practitioners Northern Ireland . be it not true that Northern Ireland have the low proportion of its healthcare budget allocate to GP service , compare with the rest of the UK ? can anyone point to anywhere that spend less ? do the Minister agree that Northern Ireland deserve well ? I thank the hon . member for North Down ( Alex Easton ) for raise GP access , which be a vital matter for so many of our constituent . I congratulate he on secure his first Westminster Hall debate — well do on that . [ interruption . ] his first Adjournment debate — sorry . we be not in Westminster Hall right now . it have be a long day ; I thank hon . member for their forbearance . when we ask people what their top priority for the NHS be , the chance be that they will say it be to fix general practice , because GPs be the front door to our national health service . they be the first port of call for million of people , and they perform a vital service by deliver care in community right across our country . of course , health be a devolved matter in Northern Ireland , and decision about GP service there rightly sit with the Northern Ireland Executive and at Stormont . nevertheless , this Government be commit to be an active partner in help to deliver well public service outcome across the UK while respect the devolution settlement . I be delighted that the Under - Secretary of State for Northern Ireland , my hon . friend the Member for Putney ( Fleur Anderson ) , be here with I on the Front Bench this evening , show how important the teamwork between the UK Government and the Northern Ireland Executive be . ultimately , the underlying challenge be the same . whether it be access , capacity or workforce pressure , we recognise those issue across the UK . our manifesto pledge to reset our relationship with the devolved administration , to put country before party , and to work with they on issue from trade and tackle child poverty to a whole range of issue around the economy and growth that affect all of we . I welcome this chance to hear the perspective of the hon . member for North Down and to exchange idea across the Floor of the Chamber . access to timely GP appointment be at the heart of a strong and responsive healthcare system . on that point , I will raise the issue of a resident who live in my constituency . she need to give blood every three month for a long - term condition she have , but she can never get an appointment in Bramhall , where she live ; instead , she have to travel 3 mile to Shaw Heath . that happen every three month . do the Minister agree that that should not be happen in our country and that access to GPs should be not only easy , but available to all our resident ? I agree absolutely with the point that the hon . Gentleman make . we will very shortly publish our 10 - year plan for the NHS . as I will say a little later in my speech , a big part of that be about the shift to a neighbourhood health service and shift from hospital to community so that the front door of the NHS be fix , and access be a vital part of that . the big issue in my constituency be that I have constituent who be on the point of qualifying as GPs , but they do not have job as GPs to go into . what do the Government plan to do as part of their 10 - year plan to fix the issue that we have people qualify as GPs who do not have GP job to go into ? I be sure the hon . Gentleman will welcome the fact that we secure a record £ 889 million increase in the GP contract . that be a first step in dig we out of the very deep hole that the previous Government leave for we . when I look across my portfolio , whether it be GPs , mental health , dentistry or pharmacy — you name it — it be a car crash right across the piece . I be frankly shock by what I see when I first go into the Department back in July . we be , I hope , begin to get thing back on an even keel . the hon . Gentleman be right , though : we do not have a shortage of people come through GP training , but supply and demand be not match up . that have to change . I be sure that the hon . member for North Down will welcome the fact that we secure £ 82 million of additional funding through the additional role reimbursement scheme , lead to the recruitment of an additional 1 , 700 gps . the challenge be more about get GPs in the place where they be most need , which be something we need to work on — other colleague have talk about the geographical imbalance . we need to look at the formula for the way that funding be allocate across the country , as it be an important part of the access issue that the hon . Gentleman raise . I have be work with Lib Dem councillor Hannah Gostlow to tackle some of the issue that local health service and GP surgery in Knaresborough be face . I recently visit a surgery and be tell that it have the staff that it want to get in place , but do not have the consulting room . the problem that surgery face be that the money from the community infrastructure levy and other source of funding will not come until far down the line , so it can not take on those staff because the consulting room can not be build . do the Minister agree that we need to get funding into those GP service , so that we can provide the service that local people deserve and need ? the hon . Gentleman be right ; one challenge we face be that , where we be develop new centre of housing , we be not get the social infrastructure wrap around they . we need to use thing such as section 106 agreement and the CIL , as he mention . that process be not always work — the developer be not always come forward with real , concrete commitment — so the integrate care board do not commission because they be not sure that the infrastructure will be there , and we end up in a chicken - and - egg situation . we be work closely with colleague in the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government to break through some of that and attach strong string to the deal be do with developer . we also have the £ 102 million capital infrastructure scheme for primary care , which will go some way towards address the issue , but this be fundamentally about get much clear and strong commitment from developer . I thank the Minister for his response , which have be incredibly helpful . when I think of GP access , I think of two thing ; the first be Strangford and the village along the Ards peninsula , where I have live for most of my life and where I represent . there , the good way of contact a gp be by phone — that be the nature of the situation there — but one of the thing that help in Newtownards , which be the big nucleus of people in the area , be for people to go down to the surgery at 8 o ' clock or half - past 8 , join the queue and get their appointment there and then . that be another way of try to access the gp ; there be nothing as frustrating as be on the phone from 8 o ' clock to half - past 8 or 9 o ' clock and not be able to get an appointment . at least when people can see their doctor , they can definitely get one . we have to have a mixture of access channel . the telephone be very important , as be be able to turn up in person , but we also need to shift more to online booking . I be really pleased that the new contract that we have with GPs be base on an £ 889 million investment that come with a lot of string attach around reform . one of those string be that every gp surgery — in England , at least — must have online booking facility by 1 October . I hope that will improve access , and will make more space in the reception process for people who can not use the internet . we have to ensure that we get the balance right . that be why , as I mention , we take decisive action in October 2024 . we invest £ 82 million in the additional role reimbursement scheme , which be a targeted move to strengthen our frontline service and ease the pressure on practice across the country . that funding have directly support the recruitment of over 1 , 700 gps across England . those GPs be now in place , help to increase appointment availability and — most importantly — improve care for thousand of patient who have be struggle to get the help they need when they need it . we have also see a rise in the number of GPs employ directly by practice over the past 12 month , which be a positive sign that general practice be stabilise and begin to rebuild capacity on the ground . together , these development be make it easy for patient to access care and for practice to deliver it . as the hon . member for North Down ( Alex Easton ) mention , there be contract that have be hand back to the Department . we have people come forward who want to be GPs , but it be get hard to find those partner who want to run and manage practice . do the Minister agree that in any training scheme and any course that come forward , that side of general practice — how to run a business and how to run a practice — need to be reinforce in training ? there be people who want to be gps and medic , but we need that skill mix , too . the hon . member speak with great knowledge and expertise in this area , so I be pleased that he be here for this debate . he be right that it be about the skill mix . many gps really enjoy the management , administration and leadership role at partnership level . he raise an interesting and important point about the training for that . my impression be that many go into manage a practice have just learn on the job and go through the process in an ad hoc way . perhaps training be a matter for further discussion with the Royal College of General Practitioners . it be also about learn to run a business . could we look at that in respect of university and mba or whatever it might be , give that business administration be an important part of the equation ? I also want to say a word about bureaucracy . too much red tape be hold GPs back . on 4 October , the Secretary of State launch the red tape challenge , with a clear goal to identify and eliminate unnecessary administrative burden , free up GPs to see more patient and focus on deliver high - quality care . improve access be not just about cut bureaucracy ; it be also about transform how care be deliver . that be why we have commit to move towards a neighbourhood health service . that model of care will bring a range of service together , break down barrier and silo between service and streamline support for patient . that integrated approach will mean that patient be see soon by the right person in the right setting . we will require all practice to ensure that patient can go online to request an appointment at any point during core opening hour . that be about not just add a digital option , but transform how general practice work for the modern world . by make online access standard , we be give patient more control and great flexibility over how they engage with their gp . it will mean no long have to call at 8 am sharp or wait in a phone queue . that be especially important for those juggle work , childcare or other responsibility . this change also help those who prefer to call or go to the surgery in person ; by enable more people to use online route , we reduce pressure on phone line and reception desk , mean short wait and fast service for everyone . we be also take action to improve access for those who need it most by incentivise well continuity of care , particularly for patient with chronic or complex condition . they benefit significantly from see the same practitioner over time . continuity do not just improve the patient experience ; it improve outcome . when patient see a familiar clinician , issue be identify early , care be more personalised and time be not lose repeat history or re - explain symptom . our manifesto pledge be to bring back the family doctor , and that be what we will do . physical infrastructure have also be mention by hon . member . our new £ 102 million primary care utilisation and modernisation fund will create additional clinical space in more than 1 , 000 gp practice across England . this investment will deliver more appointment and improve patient care . stratton surgery in my constituency have long be try to get access to two room on the third floor of the surgery that could be use for clinical space , but the ICB seem to be drag its foot . the room be previously use by Cornwall ' s ICB for maternity service . they be no long in use , so can the Minister please help in work with the ICB to help Stratton surgery to get access to those much - need clinical space ? if the hon . Member could write to I on that issue , I would be more than happy to look into it . I be always keen to help hon . member to get their icb to move in the right direction . we have directly provide £ 61 million to assist the expansion of the multidisciplinary team approach across Northern Ireland , which will help to stabilise primary care , focus on the prevention and management of condition away from hospital setting , and well utilise the skill of the community and voluntary sector . we will provide additional funding by 2028 - 29 to bring back the family doctor by support the training of thousand more gps and deliver million more appointment over the spending review period , and will build far on the 1 , 700 additional gps who have already be recruit . through these improvement , we be make a difference to patient satisfaction : the late health insight survey show a sustained improvement in satisfaction , with 72 . 5 % of patient who contact their general practice in the past 28 day report a good overall experience — up from 67 . 4 % in July 2024 . this government be deliver concrete result , because we believe that everyone deserve access to high - quality care close to home . I be delighted that general practitioner committee England vote in favour of this year ' s GP contract in March . this be the first time the contract have be accept in four year . the agreement reset our relationship and mark a turning point — a shared commitment to work together on behalf of patient and practitioner alike . the change in the contract will streamline target for GPs , incentivise improve continuity of care , make progress towards our health mission and , crucially , require practice to make it possible for patient to go online to request an appointment throughout the duration of core opening hour . those change be back by an extra £ 889 million , represent cash growth of more than 7 % in overall contract investment . the NHS belong to the people . those be not just my word ; they be in the NHS constitution . everything that this Government have do since the election have be gear towards save the NHS , give it back to the people and get it back on its foot . we be put power back into the hand of patient , where it rightly belong , because this be their health service and it must work for they . ensure that every patient have access to the care that they need be not just a priority , but a promise . I thank the Minister for indulge I again . will he join I in congratulate the many fantastic GPs in my constituency and throughout the country ? it be not an easy job ; we hear of the flak that they get from patient day in , day out when they be work to tight timeframe . one such gp in my area be Dr Viv Poskitt , who have be elect as a liberal Democrat town councillor . will the Minister share my thank to Viv and to all the GPs across our country ? I will certainly congratulate Dr Viv Poskitt — I think I have get the name right — on be a gp , although I will probably not congratulate she on be a liberal Democrat town councillor . the hon . Gentleman be right : GPs be the backbone , or the beat heart , of our NHS . they represent the front door , and we must fix that front door , which be currently creak on its hinge . this Government be absolutely committed to fix it , and to move on from there to fix our nhs , get it back on its foot and make it fit for the future . question put and agree to . House adjourn .