business before Questions the Vice - Chamberlain of the household report to the House , that the Address pray that his Majesty will appoint Dame Laura Cox to the Office of Ordinary Member of the Independent Parliamentary Standards Authority with effect from 1 August 2023 for the period end 31 July 2028 be present to his Majesty , who be graciously pleased to comply with the request . the Vice - Chamberlain of the household report to the House , that the Address pray that his Majesty will re - appoint Dame Susan Bruce as an electoral commissioner with effect from 1 January 2024 for the period end 31 December 2026 ; appoint Sheila Ritchie as an electoral commissioner with effect from 1 February 2024 for the period end 31 January 2027 ; and appoint Carole Mills as an electoral commissioner with effect from 1 January 2024 for the period end 31 December 2027 , be present to his Majesty , who be graciously pleased to comply with the request . Speaker ' s Statement before we proceed to the next item of business , I would like to acknowledge that this be the last working day in the Chamber of Jim Davey , the Speaker ' s Trainbearer . before he move on to an exciting new role within the House , I want to express my personal thank , and those of honourable colleague and the whole of the Speaker ' s Office , to Jim , who have serve as Trainbearer for the last 12 year . when I become Speaker , he make that transition into the role so much easy with his encyclopaedic knowledge of procedural matter in the Chamber and his authoritative recollection of event that have take place here during his time in office . in 2013 , a political sketchwriter comment : " the trainbearer will , I hope , forgive I if I report that he carry his page - boy uniform , complete with rosette … with aplomb . " but of course , nothing faze Jim . in his 12 year , he have see a lot and still retain that aplomb . of course , we all think that Quentin Letts just do it for member , but Jim have also have the privilege of Mr Letts ' s evaluation of his proceeding . I be sure that the whole House will join I in wish Jim well in his next job as Senior Clerk in the Table Office . I know that many member rely on his wise counsel , so I be pleased that we will retain his knowledge and experience , and that they will be put to good use just along the Corridor . the good news for I be that at least I do not have far to go for the benefit of that knowledge this time . so , Jim , can we wish you well and thank you for everything you have do ? it have be amazing . with aplomb , thank you again . oral Answers to Questions Transport the Secretary of State be ask — Bus fare what assessment he have make of the potential implication for his policy of the cost of bus fare . the Government be invest nearly £ 600 million to introduce a £ 2 fare cap on single bus fare in England outside London . we have introduce it on 1 January 2023 to help passenger to save on their regular travel cost , but the Prime Minister announce recently that it would be extend until the end of 2024 . just this week , the Government also announce an indicative additional bus service improvement plan worth more than £ 13 million for West Yorkshire . I warmly welcome the Government ' s support , which be make bus journey across Keighley and our wide area much more affordable . as a result of the bus service improvement plan , as from last month we have a new £ 1 zone in Keighley , make travel around the town much more affordable , with the K3 and K7 service become more frequent . moreover , a single ticket for other journey cost just £ 2 , thank to the Government . do my hon . friend agree that this demonstrate that our Conservative Government recognise the importance of local , affordable travel link that help to support our community ? this government certainly do . I thank my hon . friend for raise our commitment to support bus service , not just in his constituency but right across the country . this be just a small part of the £ 3 . 5 billion we have invest in bus service , with much more to come , include our recent announcement of another £ 150 million for the bus service improvement plan from the money for Network North , start next year . the Department ' s data show that , between June 2022 and June 2023 , bus fare drop by 7 . 4 % in England , outside London . whereas in London , Wales and Scotland , where bus be devolve , fare have increase by 6 % , 6 . 3 % and 10 . 3 % respectively . let I put this in context . in South Yorkshire , since 2010 , bus passenger mile have drop by 50 % , which be a catastrophic fall in the use of our bus service . the cut to service mean that many community be now cut off completely . when the Government come to allocate the recent funding , which be welcome , do they take account of the fact that South Yorkshire have previously have no BSIP funding whatsoever ? add the current funding to the previous funding , South Yorkshire have have far less per passenger head than other part of the country . why have the Government so discriminated against South Yorkshire and my constituent ? I think you need an Adjournment debate . I would welcome an Adjournment debate on South Yorkshire bus , if the hon . member for Sheffield South East ( Mr Betts ) be to put in for one . I speak to the Mayor of South Yorkshire just this week , and he say that the authority will need around £ 8 million next year to put back all the service that have be remove over the past few year . in our Network North allocation , it be get £ 67 . 8 million next year . on top of that , he be get another £ 3 million in BSIP fund next year . with all the extra cash this Government be provide , he should be able to provide exactly what the hon . Gentleman suggest . that be in addition to the " get around for £ 2 " fare scheme , which will benefit any of his constituent who can use a bus . Network North and HS2 Phase 2 : Comparative Assessment what comparative assessment he have make of the economic impact of Network North and the second phase of High Speed 2 . before I answer this question , Mr Speaker , may I put on record , on behalf of the Government side of the House and myself , that I share your congratulation to Jim on his service so far and still to come . it sound like Quentin Letts be rather kind to he than he often be to many of we . as the cost of HS2 have increase , the relative benefit have dwindle . every penny of the £ 36 billion that would have be spend on phase 2 of hs2 will be reinveste into local infrastructure and transport scheme across the country , include £ 20 billion on project across the north . that investment will support thousand of new job , on top of the thousand already support by the construction of phase 1 from Birmingham to London Euston . we know how vital rail infrastructure be for economic growth , connectivity and inward investment . eighty - five per cent of the project announce in Network North be previously promise , commit to or subject to approval . if those project have not be deliver in the 13 year that this rabble have have in government , why should my constituent trust that this be not a case of the north , yet again , have to choose and get neither , while London get HS1 , HS2 , Crossrail 1 , Crossrail 2 and a fully integrate and Department for Transport - subsidise public transport system ? I think the hon . Lady be miss the fact that every single penny that we be not spend on phase 2 of hs2 in the north be be — [ interruption . ] no , she raise a good point . every penny of what be go to be spend in the north be be spend in the north , and every single penny that be go to be spend in the midland be be reinveste in the midland . it be the money that have be free up from our more ambitious development project at Euston that will be spend in the rest of the country . the north of England be get exactly the same amount of money , it be just be spend on transport project that be well fit to what people actually need , rather than phase 2 of HS2 . I call the Chair of the Transport Committee . in a recent episode of the " Green Signals " podcast , the former chair of the Strategic Rail Authority , Sir Richard Bowker , claim that no Government include in the business case for HS2 the economic value of additional passenger and freight service that would run on the classic line , enable by HS2 . may I ask my right hon . friend to investigate whether this be the case and , if it be , why it have not be properly evaluate ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . the phase 1 benefit - cost ratio process for HS2 capture some of the benefit of release capacity , include new demand for exist service . it do not include all the benefit from new service , but I know that the rail Minister will be happy to meet he to discuss that in more detail . a new city centre station and a fast rail connection to Manchester be vital to unlock Bradford ' s economic potential , and I welcome their inclusion in the Government ' s Network North strategy . however , the Prime Minister have since state that many project in the strategy be not final but illustrative . so will the Minister confirm that this Government will , at long last , firmly commit to a new high - speed , high - capacity line , without interchange , between Manchester and Bradford ? yes , I can confirm that . the day after the party conference I go to Bradford and meet the leader of the council and the West Yorkshire Mayor to talk about our plan for the station at Bradford , their ambitious plan for the growth of Bradford and the new rail line . they very much welcome the plan we have make . I hope that the hon . Gentleman do too , and it would be nice if the Opposition Front Benchers share the same view as their party colleague . I welcome the almost £ 1 billion that Tees Valley will receive from Network North . what advice can the Minister give I to ensure that Darlington secure the £ 160 million for the northern link road and £ 10 million for the North Road station ? my hon . friend be a great champion for transport scheme in his constituency and I welcome his recognition of the funding we have allocate to the Tees Valley Combined Authority under Network North . I encourage he to raise the issue of those scheme with the combine authority , which will be able to use the money allocate to it to focus on the transport project that matter most across the combine authority , particularly in his constituency . I call the shadow Minister . in June 2019 , Ministers be reportedly tell by the new chairman that HS2 be billion over budget and year behind schedule , yet as mps in this House debate the Third Reading of the High Speed Rail ( West Midlands – Crewe ) Bill on 15 July none of that be make clear to parliamentarian . do the Secretary of State agree that if the true cost be hide from Parliament , that would represent an outrageous breach of the ministerial code ? will he say right now whether that be the case ? first , let I welcome the hon . gentleman to his position on the Opposition Front Bench . obviously , at the time he mention I be not in the Government . I be sure that all of my ministerial — [ interruption . ] if the hon . member for Sheffield , Heeley ( Louise Haigh ) would allow I to answer the question rather than chuntere from a sedentary position , that would be welcome . as I say , I be not in the Government at that time , but I be sure that all of my ministerial colleague , both past and present , be well aware of their responsibility under the ministerial code and that they give truthful answer to Parliament at the time . I call the Scottish National party spoke - person . many of we question this Government ' s moral compass , but the Network North plan give rise to concern about their actual compass , with the provision for Plymouth and Bristol . the first recommendation in the " Union Connectivity Review " back " invest in the West Coast Main Line north of Crewe to properly use hs2 and its fast journey time and capacity to serve connectivity between Scotland and England " . yet Network North justifie continue with HS2 phase 1 " as it provide the most effective solution to … constraint on the congested southern end of the West Coast Main line " . so when will the Secretary of State deliver the upgrade north of Crewe to unblock the bottleneck to the scottish economy and that of the north of England , include Chorley ? the hon . Gentleman will know that we have make it clear that we be go to make sure that high - speed train can still continue past Birmingham on to the west coast main line . we have already have a debate in this House , and I believe we have this debate at length when I make my statement after the House return last week , about the capacity on the west coast main line . the southern section be the most congested part , which be why we be continue with phase 1 . there be a debate to be have and people can have different view about where demand will go over the next 20 year . the view we have take be that the priority be to focus on the transport need of people now — [ interruption . ] well , in the north of England we be reinveste £ 20 billion of the £ 36 billion we have save , so we be put the money where it would have be invest but on transport project that be more relevant to people ' s everyday need . Transport Projects : East of England what plan he have to support transport project in the East of England . the Network North announcement include commitment to rail improvement at Ely and Haughley junction , which be a key priority for the east and also for railfreight . we be also commit to the A10 scheme north of Cambridge . the east will also benefit from the £ 8 . 3 billion announce for highway maintenance funding across England . I warmly welcome the commitment to upgrade Ely Junction , which will boost passenger service to King ' s Lynn in my constituency , as well as freight . I be sure my hon . friend will ensure that the scheme now proceed as rapidly as possible . may I also urge Ministers to approve the business case submit by Norfolk County Council for the A10 West Winch housing access road , which be essential to unlock housing , reduce congestion and boost growth ? as ever , my hon . friend be bang on when it come to the Ely project . it be a superb project , which really deliver for freight and ensure that freight can travel from Felixstowe across the midland , rather than have to go south . so I can assure hon . member that we will be on that project and get it deliver . on my hon . friend ' s point on the A10 , which I welcome , official be currently assess the outline business case submit by Norfolk County Council , and will be provide advice to Ministers in due course . we will ensure that we be in touch with my hon . friend as soon as a decision have be make . I call Heather Wheeler OBE . Electric Vehicles what step he be take to increase the availability of electric vehicle . the Government be commit to accelerate the transition to zero - emission vehicle . last year , 16 % of new car and around 6 % of new van sell be fully electric . to continue to support the uptake of zero - emission vehicle we be , as the House know , introduce a world - lead zero - emission vehicle mandate . that will support the future supply of zero - emission vehicle by set a minimum percentage of manufacturer ' new car and van sale to be zero - emission each year from 2024 . I be delighted to say that this week we have lay the new public charge point regulation to facilitate charge for electric vehicle . I thank my right hon . friend for his answer . as he know , in South Derbyshire in the Toyota factory we have groundbreake hydrogen technology , so I would ask , what be the Minister do to ensure that the charge infrastructure be in place across rural area , for both electric and hydrogen vehicle ? my hon . friend know that the Government have support the use of hydrogen in road vehicle for over a decade , include the installation of hydrogen refuelling infrastructure where there be sufficient demand . I should also say that notably , Toyota recently announce the tremendous progress that it appear to have make in commercialise solid - state battery . that be a very encouraging sign across the piece , not just for hydrogen but for electric . we have already hear that the uptake of electric vehicle be closely link to charge point . when will the Government close the gap in charge cost between those who have the ability to charge at home and those who rely on a public charging point ? as the hon . Lady know , there be wide and differ experience across the charge network . many people be able to charge at home and many people be able to charge through the increasingly large public network . the way in which electricity price have change have tend to dominate change overall , but she will , I be sure , share my pleasure that the new charge point regulation mean that we can now have a much more competitive market for charge across all the different form of infrastructure . Bus Services what step he be take to support bus service . use the saving from HS2 , we will extend the £ 2 bus fare right across England until the end of December 2024 . this mean that the Government have commit over £ 600 million to cap bus fare . we have also announce that the Government will continue to provide increase financial support to community transport operator , to help they protect key service by uplift their bus service operator grant by 60 % . I thank the Minister for that reply , and for his recent visit to Southend West . he be very aware that last year , elderly resident be leave strand , literally overnight , when First Bus withdraw the no . 21 service , cut they off from Southend Hospital , from Leigh Broadway and from many community group . despite successfully work with First Bus to reroute the no . 3 bus , this be not good enough ; it only run once every two hour . will he meet I and First Bus to make sure that Southend City get the good bus service possible ? I be delighted to visit my hon . friend , and also my hon . friend the Member for Rochford and Southend East ( Sir James Duddridge ) . I would be very happy to meet she and representative from First Bus . her work to champion her constituent ' local transport need be second to none . I be delighted to see that that additional piece of bus funding of almost £ 1 million from central Government to southend to help protect and enhance local bus service be go through , but I will happily meet she to see how we can well ensure that it be spend in a way that protect her resident . it be not possible for people in Tamworth to reach Burton hospital by bus if they need to do so . will the Government commit to support labour ' s take back control Bill , which will devolve the running of bus service to local authority , so that bus route that community need can be deliver by the people who know where they be need most ? I welcome the hon . Lady to her place . this Government have put in unprecedented amount of support for bus service , include £ 150 million for the midland and the north in the past week alone . the Bus Services Act 2017 , which we pass , allow franchising to be expand across the country . it be this Government who be deliver on that great reach for local authority , whether it be via franchising or enhance partnership . I urge she to speak to the county council in her region and try to get it to allocate some of that money to support local service . this government be put in the money , but it be up to the local authority to deliver . I call the shadow Minister . on Monday , the Government pledge to deliver 25 million more bus mile , but what they fail to tell the public be that this be just a drop in the ocean , compare with the 175 million bus mile that they have slash over the past five year . in fact , never before on record have bus route fall by as much as they have over the past year , and this from the same party that promise bus so frequent that we would not need a timetable . do this not show that , while the Tories and their broken bus system remain in place , community will continue to see this record - break decline in the bus service on which they depend ? the hon . member do not seem to recognise the fact of the situation . there have be huge amount of extra cash go in , whether that be through the City Region Sustainable Transport Settlement that we be see right across the country — in some case , that funding be be triple for some local authority — or the bus service improvement plan . on the statistic that those on the Labour Front Bench trot out , the one they seem to forget be that , in Wales , bus service have decline by more than twice as much in term of mileage than the rest of the country , and it do not have the " get around for £ 2 " fare scheme or any of the other support that the Government in England be put into service , because it be make the wrong decision . Mass Transit System : leed if he will take step to establish a mass transit system in Leeds . the Government ' s Network North announcement include £ 2 . 5 billion of investment for the West Yorkshire mass transit system , build on the £ 200 million already provide to the West Yorkshire Combined Authority , which be develop the business case . I look forward to review that and bring the benefit of mass transit to the West Yorkshire region . Less than 40 % of the population of Leeds can now reach the city centre by public transport within 30 minute . we have be promise and promise a public rail - base transport system by this Government for year , and yet we still remain the large city in Europe without one . will the Minister tell the people of Leeds why we should believe he this time ? I will take that as a welcome for the £ 2 . 5 billion commitment in Network North . as the hon . Member rightly say , Leeds would no long be the large city in Europe without a mass transit system . what we be look to do with the West Yorkshire Combined Authority be create a network of up to seven line , which will eventually connect Leeds with Huddersfield , Wakefield , Bradford and Halifax . work be go on , because £ 200 million have already be commit . I have a meeting with the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities and the West Yorkshire Combined Authority to discuss the plan and proposal . the combined authority be work at pace and we be go to fund it . Nottinghamshire previously submit a levelling - up bid for a new Toton link road but narrowly miss out . the project — order . one of we be go to have sit down , and it be not go to be I . the question be on Leeds , unfortunately . be the hon . Gentleman ' s supplementary link ? indicate dissent . right . let we move on . Western Rail Link to Heathrow what assessment have he make of the adequacy of progress on construct the Western Rail Link to Heathrow . the Government remain committed to improve rail access to Heathrow airport , and recognise the importance of the improve rail connectivity that a western rail link could provide . we need to ensure that project that we take forward reflect the change shape of rail demand and be affordable . I understand that , as a consequence , the promoter of a western rail link be update their proposal . you will be aware , Mr Speaker , that I have long champion a western rail link to Heathrow , which would connect 20 % of the UK population to within one interchange of our nation ' s main airport . the Government commit to it over a decade ago , yet not a single spade have dig into the ground . sadly , the Government have more of a reputation for cancel rail link than for build they . perhaps the rail Minister , who kindly meet I recently about the issue , will have well news for we today . what meeting have he have with Heathrow airport , Thames Valley chamber of commerce and other stakeholder to progress this vital 4 mile rail link between Slough and Heathrow ? may I first thank the former shadow rail Minister for the time that we have together ? it be true that he have be a champion of this project , and indeed pretty much every other rail project that I have go to an all - party parliamentary group for , where he have already agree to pre - fund it . I assume that now he be a shadow Treasury Minister he might be cancel some of his previous decision in a bid for fiscal credibility . this particular project be due to be fund 50 : 50 , but thing have change post pandemic for Heathrow , so it be right that it go back to the drawing board . we will always support rail investment that can be pay for by private enterprise . that be what our Network North project be all about . Rail Services what step he be take to improve rail service . I regularly meet with Network Rail and train operator to discuss rail performance and service . Twickenham have see positive result . in the past 12 week , an average of 88 . 1 % of train across the line serve Twickenham have arrive within three minute of the state time . I thank the Minister for that answer . if we want to encourage more people to use our railway we need to ensure that our station be properly staff so that they be accessible and safe for all , and that all complex ticket can be purchase easily , yet the Government be back south Western Railway ' s plan to slash staffing hour at station across my constituency , in some case by up to 80 % in very heavily use station . will the Minister heed the advice of the Transport Committee , which have say this week that ticket office closure plan be move " too far , too fast " , and his own statement that he do not expect a material reduction in hour , and stop these plan in their track ? I always take onboard the advice of the Transport Committee , because it do a great job and always have do . on ticket office , these be industry proposal , which , pursuant to the process set out in the ticketing and settlement agreement , be currently be consult on between the train operator and the passenger body . we expect that consultation stage to conclude shortly . I have make it clear at this Dispatch Box , and the Secretary of State have also be clear , that this should be a redeployment and multi - skilling of staff exercise to enhance the passenger experience . serious overcrowding persist on chiltern railway service serve my constituent , particularly at rush hour and weekend . the long - term solution be whole - fleet renewal , but there be some short - term fix that Chiltern be ask for , such as be permit to bring its extra set of class 68 back into use . can my hon . friend assure I that he be do everything possible at pace with Chiltern to improve rail service for my constituent ? my hon . friend be another excellent member of the Transport Committee , and he always champion the need for more capacity on his busy railway line . he be accurate : overcrowding be become an increase concern for Chiltern , which be assess option to mitigate the issue , such as further utilisation of the Class 68 unit in and out of Marylebone to maximise capacity . there be issue with the diesel fleet , but we want to ensure that we can continue to provide the service for his chiltern customer . in the long term , I know that Chiltern be work with the roll stock company provider to assess hybrid train , with an aim to move away from diesel . I call the shadow Minister . fresh from slash and burn hs2 while in Manchester and spout crank conspiracy theory , the Secretary of State announce Network North . however , that dodgy sound 1970 ITV franchise do not have a single project with an approve business case , and plan be value at 2019 price . there be no promise to my hon . friend the Member for Bradford East ( Imran Hussain ) a minute ago . Network North be literally not worth the paper it be write on , be it , Minister ? it most certainly be . when the Prime Minister announce Network North , it be clear that we be go to see a plethora of rail project and , indeed , wide project . we will well connect the major city of the north , we will invest £ 2 billion so that Bradford can finally get the new station that it deserve and , as I have state , we will add £ 2 . 5 billion to the West Yorkshire mass transit system . there be a huge amount of project that we should all be celebrate , across party . it be interesting that the opposition seem to be knock these opportunity to well connect city across the north and the country . when it come to business case , the Ely and Haughley project , for example , have an outline business case of 4 . 6 . we know that business case be strong when there be local transport opportunity . my question back to the Opposition Front - Bench team be whether they support these proposal , in which case they should ride behind they and be positive about they — or do they not want well transport network across the north , the midland and the rest of the country ? speed : Rural Areas what recent discussion his Department have have with the Home Office on tackle speed in rural area . my Department take road safety for all road user , include those use rural route , extremely seriously . we be currently consider how good to address the specific safety issue that may arise on part of the local rural network . as part of our work on road safety , my official regularly meet Home Office official to discuss issue of mutual interest . I also recently meet my right hon . friend the Minister for Crime , Policing and Fire to discuss these and other matter relate to road safety , include more way to tackle drink and drug driving . on the subject of speeding and rural safety , the entry into one of my primary town in North Norfolk — Sheringham , a tourist town on the Norfolk coast — have a fast - flow road that be become more and more congested year after year . what it really need be a roundabout , which the Minister know all about . all in my community support it . unfortunately , the county council do not have the money — not as much as the Minister now have , certainly . could he please find I a funding pot to bid into to build the Sheringham roundabout ? come on , Minister ! my hon . friend be a real champion for a Sheringham roundabout ; in fact , he have drag I there to visit the A148 junction with Holway Road . I be delighted to do it , and I will be happy to go down and see it again . I understand that Norfolk County Council be continue preliminary design work and confirm cost and planning requirement , which should put Norfolk in a strong position to make a bid . although there be no immediate source for this specific scheme , I encourage the council to continue to work with the safe road fund , because a new opportunity will arise next year . support for Motorists what step he be take to support motorist . what step he be take to support motorist . through Network North , we announce £ 8 . 3 billion for road resurfacing — the large allocation of money for local road maintenance ever — and an extra £ 4 billion for local road scheme . in addition , the plan for driver set out 30 new measure we be take to make motorist ' life easy , from restrain the most aggressively anti - driver traffic management intervention to stop council profit from move traffic enforcement . our plan show that the Government be on the side of driver . across the country , the Department for Transport and local administration have have great success in reduce the impact of roadwork on everyday motorist through lane rental scheme . unfortunately , Greater Manchester be not one of the area make use of that highly effective tool . will my right hon . friend take step to ensure that Greater Manchester adopt a similar scheme to tackle the massive disruption cause by roadwork ? I entirely agree with the point make by my hon . friend . I be pleased to report that , follow his very effective representation and those of other , the Mayor of Greater Manchester ' s Bee Network committee recently endorse a decision to develop a proposal to introduce lane rental in Greater Manchester , and discussion be now take place with local authority . I welcome the UK Government ' s £ 1 billion investment to electrify the north Wales main line , but for my Ynys M ô n constituent , the good connectivity for motorist would be a third Menai crossing to take the pressure off our two lovely but old bridge and to make the most of Anglesey freeport and of Holyhead , the second busy roll - on roll - off port in the UK . will my right hon . friend see what the UK Government can do to make that a reality for north Wales , now that the Welsh Labour Government in Cardiff have ban new road building ? the UK Government recognise the importance of Ynys M ô n to the UK economy . decision about the Menai crossing be the responsibility of the Welsh Government . that emphasise the damage , both to the Welsh economy and the UK economy , be do by labour ' s decision to ban all new road building , which I very much hope it will revisit . petrol price in Barnsley be significantly high than in neighbouring area . indeed , it be often cheap to buy petrol in central London than it be in Barnsley . I do not think that motorist in Barnsley should have to pay a petrol price premium . do the Secretary of State intend to include in the King ' s Speech legislation on a fuel watchdog to help motorist in Barnsley ? I hope that the hon . Lady will have note the announcement that we make early this year about PumpWatch , as well as the work that the Government have do to ensure that the Competition and Markets Authority look carefully at the way in which the fuel market operate , to ensure that it do so in the interest of consumer , as we all want . some 50 - plus year ago , when I first take my driving test , there be one other thing we have to do : be able to afford a car . I can remember pin all my £ 165 to buy a wee mini car , but that be 50 - plus year ago . today , one of the issue for people who want to drive and be on the road be that they just can not get a practical driving test . what have be do to address that so that young people who have a car and insurance can take a test and get on the road ? the hon . Gentleman make a fair point . the wait time for theory drive test be within target . he be absolutely right to draw the House ' s attention to the fact that there be currently a long wait time for practical driving test . that be why both I and the road Minister , the Under - Secretary of State for Transport , my hon . friend the Member for North West Durham ( Mr Holden ) , have task the Driver and Vehicle Standards Agency , which have a plan to get back within target in the next few month , exactly to help those constituent of the hon . Gentleman who be keen to get their practical test and get on the road , so that they can take advantage of the freedom that be able to drive offer . I call the shadow Minister . Pothole repair halve since 2016 ; insurance premium up ; fuel price up ; electric charge point roll - out 10 year behind schedule ; £ 950 million EV charge point fund still not open three year after be announce ; 10 % trade tariff threaten consumer and manufacturer — which of those be not an example of where this Government have fail driver over the last 13 year ? the hon . Gentleman have a number of thing that he purport to suggest be fact . let I just pick one of they : the roll - out of ev charging . that be absolutely on track accord to the independent assessment from the National Infrastructure Commission . the number of public charge point be up 43 % . as the Minister of State , my right hon . friend the Member for Hereford and South Herefordshire ( Jesse Norman ) set out , we have publish and lay before the House the legislation to implement our zero - emission vehicle mandate , which give the industry the confidence to invest in and roll out those charge point , to drive the roll - out of electric vehicle . we be absolutely on track to do that , and I be surprised that the hon . Gentleman do not welcome it . heathrow : third Runway what his policy be on delivery of a third runway at Heathrow Airport ; and if he will make a statement . as the House will know , Parliament have vote in principle to support a third runway at London Heathrow , but the Government have always be clear that that expansion remain a private sector project . to go ahead , it would be require to meet strict criterion on air quality , noise and climate change , as well as be privately finance . it be for any scheme promoter to decide when it submit a development consent order application as part of the statutory planning process . I thank the Minister for that answer . regional airport such as Leeds Bradford have an important role to play in deliver the levelling - up agenda , with more point - to - point destination . however , do the Minister agree that to deliver true global connectivity , we need more slot from regional airport into our national hub , which will ultimately mean more tarmac on the ground at Heathrow ? I agree with my right hon . friend , who have enormous experience in this area , that regional airport be vital to the UK and support thousand of job across the region , as well as act as a gateway for international opportunity . it nevertheless be the case that as Heathrow consider its expansion plan , it will need to decide when to take those forward , and when it do so , I hope it will bear the very important issue of regional connectivity in mind . decarbonise Road Transport what assessment he have make of the adequacy of progress on decarbonise road transport . the UK have one of the most ambitious decarbonisation programme of any country in the G7 . in March this year , the Government publish a globally unprecedented level of detail on their plan to meet emission reduction commitment , include those from road transport . the carbon budget delivery plan set out the policy and quantify carbon reduction need to meet carbon budget 4 and 5 and the vast majority of reduction need to meet our commitment into the 2030 . on heavy good vehicle road transport in particular , the start of the zero - emission road freight trial be welcome , but where be the low - carbon fuel strategy ? such fuel can cut emission by 80 % . the strategy will be crucial for shape the investment plan of logistic company , so why be it nearly a year late , and when be we go to see it ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for raise the issue of hgv . as he acknowledge , last week the Government announce the four win project of the £ 200 million zero - emission hgv and infrastructure competition , which will roll out 370 zero - emission hgv and around 57 refuelling and electric charge site . this be part of a much broad strategy , which be about develop different fuel alternative . the technology continue to change very rapidly . we have already hear some fascinating news about the development of solid - state battery , and the Government be track and follow all these development closely . I call the SNP spokesperson . I be still astonish at the Secretary of State ' s claim that the english ev charge network be on track — absolutely no one think that in this country . push back the date for the ban on petrol and diesel car by five year , combine with remove what be already one of Europe ' s bad ev purchase incentive scheme , mean that this Government be send all the wrong signal to consumer . Mike Hawes of the Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders say that consumer require " a clear , consistent message , attractive incentive and charge infrastructure that give confidence rather than anxiety . confusion and uncertainty will only hold they back . " I have no doubt that this decision be thoroughly assess , so can the Minister tell we how many extra million of tonne of carbon will be emit due to this Government ' s back - pedal on net zero ? be it p . g . wodehouse who say that it be not difficult to see the difference between a ray of sunshine and a Scotsman with a grievance ? how true that be in this case ! the truth of the matter be that there have be enormous progress in this area . let I remind the hon . Gentleman that £ 6 billion of new private investment be be plan by ChargeUK . that have not be affect . one of the lead global mandate have be lay . we have just do this excellent work on charge point , and I be pleased to say that the independent National Infrastructure Commission of this country have state that if the roll - out continue to grow at the current rate , we will meet our target of 300 , 000 public charger by 2030 . Topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . this Government have make the long - term decision to reinvest every penny of saving from High Speed 2 into the local journey that matter most across the country , so from next week , passenger on our bus will keep save money with the £ 2 fare cap , and from next year , £ 150 million of redirected hs2 funding will go to bus service across the north and midland . that be part of £ 1 billion of new funding to improve Britain ' s most popular form of public transport . it mean support local authority to introduce cheap fare , more regular service and new route , all back by investment that would not have be possible without our decision on hs2 — a project that would not have be complete until the 2040s . govern be about make choice , and by prioritise everyday local journey , we have choose to be on the side of the majority of the british people . thank goodness Santa travel by sleigh , not train ! Avanti have just release its new timetable , with London to Holyhead service up to Christmas slash . it be certainly no Nadolig Llawen for my Ynys M ô n constituent , who like I be feed up with this service . Avanti have a new contract ; what assurance can my right hon . friend give to my constituent that he be do everything he can to restore the number of direct train from London to Holyhead to pre - pandemic level ? the Rail Minister and I continue to hold Avanti to account for matter within its control , and I know the Rail Minister recently visit my hon . friend ' s constituency to talk about service to Holyhead . the temporary change she refer to be necessary to accommodate Network Rail engineering work to improve and maintain the network and minimise unplanned , short - notice cancellation due to train crew shortage as Avanti train more driver . in the spirit of my hon . friend ' s question , give that she have mention Christmas , I hope she be grateful for the early Christmas present from the Prime Minister of £ 1 billion to electrify the north Wales main line . I call the shadow Secretary of State . we now know that High Speed 2 be billion of pound over budget , Parliament may have be mislead , and the Government be about to waste hundred of million more on the fire sale of the land . why , then , do the Prime Minister choose to dismantle the ministerial taskforce that be literally design to oversee the cost and delivery of hs2 when he enter no . 10 ? the Prime Minister make the right long - term decision to reinvest every penny save from HS2 in the north and midland back into transport project across the north and midland , which will benefit more people in more place more quickly . I know this must be a difficult time for the hon . Lady as her party leader , the right hon . and learn Member for Holborn and St Pancras ( Keir Starmer ) , cast her view aside , admit that the Prime Minister be right and say that he would follow his lead . I can only thank the right hon . and learn Member — I can only think he be disappoint that the Prime Minister do not go far and follow his suggestion of cancel the station at Euston , give his long campaign against it . neither the Secretary of State nor the Prime Minister be pay attention , be they ? they have fatally undermine confidence in HS2 and its delivery , which be why no one have confidence in Network North . the Rail Minister fail to respond to my hon . friend the Member for Wythenshawe and Sale East ( Mike Kane ) about the fact that dozen of project in Network North be unfunded because they be value in 2019 price . will he publish the delivery plan and up - to - date cost , or can we all conclude that Network North be not worth the paper it be write on ? I be very surprised that the hon . Lady be not welcome the massive improvement Network North will make across the country , include for her own constituent . I be shock , Mr Speaker , that she be not take this opportunity to welcome the electrification of the Hull to Sheffield line , the upgrade of the Sheffield to Leeds line , the electrification of the Hope Valley line or the reopening of the Don Valley line . that be just on rail , the only mode of transport that the hon . Lady ever raise with I ; it be not to mention the £ 500 million — order . Secretary of State , I be be generous , but such long question and answer need to come early , not in topical . some 75 % of visitor to Bournemouth travel by car . they be most welcome , particularly when they do not park on double yellow line , but some be choose to do so for a great day by the sea . they be willing to pay the £ 35 charge , which obstruct local traffic and , indeed , the emergency service . if someone park on a double yellow in London , the charge be £ 65 . that be a real deterrent , so can the London charge rate for parking on yellow line please be extend to Bournemouth ? I thank my right hon . friend for his question . I recently meet with my right hon . friend the Member for Bournemouth West ( Sir Conor Burns ) and some member of the local council , and this issue be something I would be happy to discuss far with he . I call Imran Hussain — not here . by the time we next meet for Transport oral , it will have be more than three year since the Government consultation on pavement parking close . be we ever go to see a Government response , or be it time that the Government come clean with disability group and admit that they have put this issue in the " too hard to do " pile ? it be certainly not in the " too hard to do " pile — it be something we be look at . it be one of the big response we have have on any issue , with ten of thousand of response , so it be only right that the Government take our time to ensure we get the position right . in the meantime , any local authority across the country can put in place a traffic regulation order and ensure those change happen on a local level . pothole and road repair be a key concern for many of my fellow gedle resident so I warmly welcome the recent announcement of over £ 8 billion of spend on pothole . can my right hon . friend assure I that money will be spend where it be need most and outline how much of it be come to the east midland ? detail of how that £ 8 . 3 billion of funding will be allocate to local authority will be publish in due course , and I hope we will be able to make an announcement about that in the not - too - distant future to give my hon . friend that reassurance . it will be for each individual local highway authority to decide how to spend that money and to focus on the most important part of their network . they have the local knowledge to do that and we trust they to spend that money wisely , and I be sure my hon . friend will make representation to they about which part of his constituency that money should be target at . Scotland have have a far more progressive approach to encourage the switch to electric vehicle with incentive include interest - free loan for electric vehicle , enhance home - charger grant and a far more comprehensive charge network with twice as many rapid charger per head as England . the Scottish Government ' s Cabinet Secretary for net zero have describe the delay on ban petrol and diesel car sale as an " unforgiveable betrayal of current and future generation " , put the UK on the " wrong side of history " on climate change . she be right , isn ' t she ? I do not think that , for the reason we have describe , there be anything to complain about in relation to the progress we be make across England . charge point roll - out remain very rapid — 43 % in the last 12 month — and there be 49 , 000 public charge point at the moment and 400 , 000 private and business one , and new regulation and a new mandate have just be lay . chalkwell station in beautiful Leigh - on - Sea have 40 steep step to get up from and down to the platform ; it be 100 % inaccessible . I be tell last year by the Treasury that work on it be part of the £ 350 million Department for Transport Access for all programme . work be suppose to start a year ago , but nothing have happen . the timetable have slip ; it be not due to be complete until March 2026 . to ensure that there be no further slippage on this timetable , will the Minister meet with I ? I be very happy to meet my hon . friend . Chalkwell , Ockendon and Southend East remain within the Access for all programme . we have deliver 230 station and we will deliver those three as well . we have an issue with the contractor put in a cost estimate that be about double what I would expect ; that be why we have have to look anew , but I will very happily meet my hon . friend to discuss this far , and she have that commitment . we will deliver it . can the Minister confirm that although hs2 — or maybe HS1 - and - a - quarter — be go no far than Birmingham , the HS2 train will continue to run on the west coast main line ? be he aware of repeat report that because the new train be not design for exist track , the high - speed train to Glasgow will go slow than the exist train on that line ? can the Minister categorically assure the House that that be not the case , and tell we how much time will be cut from the train journey from Glasgow to Birmingham ? it come down to choice . we could have choose to continue with HS2 , which would not have deliver the value we need , with time overrunning , or we could have do as the Scottish National party do when it build two ferry at a shipyard that have be nationalise , go four time over budget and run seven year late . alternatively , we could have do as it do on the tram — describe by the Edinburgh tram inquiry as a " litany of avoidable failure " . when there be choice to be make , the SNP plough on regardless . open access passenger and freight train operator have recover fast since the pandemic , experience high staff morale with few strike , provide well deal for passenger and cost taxpayer less too . over the next three to six month how many new open - access service do the Minister expect to see approve ? I thank my hon . friend for everything he do to push for more open access . it be something the Secretary of State and I be keen to do . I meet this week with the Office of Rail and Road chief executive , our regulator , and we discuss what he can do to allow more open - access application , and what we can do , and we then meet with another bidder . there be another service plan with regard to Wales on the western line , and there be also one in the offing that could work on CrossCountry , plus one for the channel tunnel . I hope my hon . friend will keep on work with I . we want to deliver they . the Government ' s mishandle of HS2 be and be absolutely staggering , but their attempt to pull the wool over northern eye with Network North be a farce . do the Minister really believe the people of the north - east be fall for his fag - end fake network to nowhere ? I just do not accept that at all . I give a run through of a list of the £ 36 billion that be be put back into local project , include £ 1 . 8 billion extra for the north - east . that could , for example , be an option for the Leamside line to be reopen . I would have think that , rather than state that none of this be go to happen , the hon . Member would be hold we to account to make sure it do , and that she might actually support investment . there will be as much investment — indeed , more — in all area . [ Official Report , 20 November 2023 , Vol . 741 , c . 1mc . ] the fight against pothole be much like our own fight to stay healthy : if we do nothing about it , we deteriorate fast . I therefore thank the Minister for the additional £ 200 million allocate to local authority for pothole repair . will he join I in praise Dudley Council ' s new approach of move away from traditional , reactive quick win towards a proactive , high - quality structural maintenance service ? I certainly be delighted to praise Dudley Council for its new approach , spend that money wisely but also implement preventative measure for the future . well plan road maintenance be essential , and on 4 October the Prime Minister announce that Network North would include £ 8 . 3 billion for local highway maintenance right across the country . the allocation of that cash will be announce very soon to help Dudley , but also every other council right across the country , to ensure it have the high quality road . I be not quite sure that answer be as link as it should have be . the Government have say that every penny that would have be spend on HS2 will now be reinveste in local and regional transport infrastructure . to be clear , and so that South Yorkshire can get organise , may I ask the Minister to confirm that the city region sustainable transport settlement round 2 uplift for South Yorkshire will be £ 543 million , and that he will work with the Mayor and other to maximise the benefit of that investment ? yes , I can give the hon . Gentleman that assurance . it be indeed £ 543 million of extra funding for the South Yorkshire mayoral combine authority . we have already have conversation with the South Yorkshire Mayor about the funding and his plan . I and my team will continue to do so , and our official will work with his to make sure we can deliver those plan . with the global AI summit come up next week in Milton Keynes , it seem topical to ask : what step be the Department take towards the regulation of autonomous pavement delivery robot ? of course , I have visit the technology that my hon . friend be describe and see it in action . we must balance the safety of patient and vulnerable road user with the potential benefit of this new technology , but I be very pleased to confirm that the Department will be fund research to advance our understanding of the impact of this technology . the result will be publish once the research have conclude . heavy good vehicle cause a disproportionate number of cycling death . to cut the number of death of cyclist by illegal freight operator in other place , will the Department look at the successful London scheme and encourage partnership between local authority , the Driving and Vehicle Standards Agency and police force to address this problem ? I be always happy to look at measure to improve road safety , include the measure the hon . Lady have suggest . I regularly meet the head of the National Police Chiefs ' Council on this , as well as the police and crime commissioner ' lead . we have already update the highway code to put that priority of road user there , but I be happy to look at any measure we can implement to further this . Nottinghamshire submit a levelling - up fund bid for a new Toton link road , but narrowly miss out . the project be desperately need to ease congestion and unlock the huge potential in my constituency of Broxtowe and our wide county . will the Secretary of State meet I to discuss this £ 40 million , ready - to - go project , especially as the east midland have the low amount per head spend per year on transport ? with the extra £ 1 . 5 billion in the crsts announcement come to my hon . friend ' s new mayoral combine authority , I be sure there will be plenty of opportunity to look at really important road scheme , but I would also be delighted to meet he as soon as possible . when a memorandum of understanding on HS2 to Scotland be agree by the then Transport Secretary , Philip Hammond , HS2 planner claim that reduce journey time between Scotland and London to three hour could boost passenger number by 4 million and increase rail ' s share of passenger make that journey from 29 % to 75 % , reduce air travel emission . what be the Secretary of State ' s new prediction for rail passenger number make that journey ? I will happily write to the hon . Lady with the detail she require , but I restate that it come down to choice . the choice that this Government have make be to go forward with transport project across the entirety of the country that can deliver fast and well benefit and that have a well business case . that be why this decision have be make . do my right hon . friend think that people of the jewish faith be safe on the London underground ? I have to tell he that many Jews in London do not feel safe . do he agree that London Underground employee who misuse Transport for London equipment to take part in intimidatory act should not only be discipline for gross misconduct , but consider for prosecution for cause harassment , alarm and distress under the Public Order Act 1986 ? I be familiar with the case that my right hon . and learn Friend raise . I be in contact with british Transport police about it after see the disturbing footage at the weekend . they have publicly say that a member of staff have be suspend , but he will understand that because the British Transport police be investigate whether a crime have be commit , it would not be right of I to go into detail . I hope he be reassure that the incident be be take seriously by both British Transport police and London Underground , and that that will reassure both he and the jewish community . the huge importance of local bus service to community such as mine in Blaydon have be emphasise by a dispute between Go North East and its employee . I very much hope that a negotiate settlement can be reach quickly . be not the reality that we need well , more streamlined franchising model to give community a great say on their transport offer ? I be sure the hon . Lady , my neighbour , welcome the news yesterday evening that go North East and Unite the union have manage to reach a settlement in the north - east . that be quite good news . I be sure she will also welcome the £ 163 . 5 million that we have put into bus service improvement plan , which include the option to do bus franchising . this government have be happy to make that available to all local authority . [ Official Report , 7 November 2023 , Vol . 740 , c . 1mc . ] the reopening of the Skipton to Colne railway line , which be about 11 mile of miss track , will be fundamental in link Lancashire and Yorkshire back up . will the Minister consider progress this line to the next phase of the rail network enhancement pipeline , which include draw up a full business case for reinstatement ? will he meet I and member include our right hon . friend the Member for Pendle ( Andrew Stephenson ) and our hon . friend the Member for Burnley ( Antony Higginbotham ) to discuss it far ? I would be pleased to meet my hon . friend and all right hon . and hon . friend . the Department have be work with Transport for the North , Lancashire County Council and the Skipton East Lancashire Rail Action Partnership campaign group to strengthen the case for reopen that line , but we will meet up and discuss that far . in answer to the hon . member for Sheffield South East ( Mr Betts ) , the bus Minister , the hon . member for North West Durham ( Mr Holden ) say that the Mayor of South Yorkshire have ask for £ 8 million to restore bus service . in fact , the Mayor ask for £ 8 million to restore bus service to 2022 level — so just restore those cut in the past year . will the Minister take this opportunity to look again at the level of funding that South Yorkshire require ? that be exactly what they say , and that be exactly what I say , too . as I say , we be see not only £ 1 . 6 million this year , but £ 1 . 6 million next year , and almost £ 8 million on top of that , but that be to ignore the huge amount — half a billion pound — of city region sustainable transport settlement funding go to South Yorkshire for this period , which will almost triple for the next period , too . [ interruption . ] the hon . Lady can shout at I from a sedentary position , but the truth be that she be just adopt our new position . it be not really opposition anymore ; it be just " adopt the Government ' s position " , include on HS2 . when do Ministers anticipate be able to give LNER the go - ahead to extend the King ' s Cross - Lincoln service through to Cleethorpes ? I be afraid I will have to give my hon . friend the answer that minister often have to give , which be that I hope to make an announcement shortly . I also hope that when an announcement be make , he will be able to welcome it . accord to the Department ' s own regulation , it should have report on medical licence for fisherman this week , but it have not , so when will the Department publish the review ? more important , when will it start listen to fisherman , who be out of pocket , worried about their livelihood and at risk of become uninsured ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady for raise that question . in fact , I meet representative of the National Federation of Fishermen ' s organisation just yesterday to talk through the issue in some detail . we will be able to make some announcement on policy very shortly . obviously , I will keep the federation inform , as I will Members of the House . my constituent very much value access to the travelcard scheme , which in particular enable visitor , friend and family to make the most of a trip to London . they be concern to hear the Mayor of London , Sadiq Khan , announce his plan to abolish the travelcard . they be equally puzzled to hear that the Mayor have now apparently intervene to save the scheme from his own plan . can my right hon . friend help I explain that conundrum to my constituent ? like my hon . friend , I be surprised that , have propose to cancel the travelcard scheme in the first place , the Mayor of London be now try to take credit for cancel his own cancellation . from my point of view , those hon . member who so stridently raise concern about the Mayor of London ' s late plan to increase cost for the travel public and the Department of Transport official who work with Transport for London to find an alternative deserve the lion ' s share of any credit . I declare an interest in that I sell my house in North West Leicestershire to HS2 in 2015 for considerably less than I pay for it in 2011 . what do the Secretary of State make of the evidence give to the medium by Andrew Bruce , the former head of land acquisition for hs2 , that people be short - changed and not give full value for their property up and down the route ? there be rule that specify how the safeguard land will be return . those who sell their property will be offer it back at the current market value . we expect those matter to take place towards the summer . with regard to the hon . member ' s allegation , I will discuss they far with he so that I be fully furnish of the case . last year , my constituent be have a drink with his son , have attend a Manchester City match , when his son be glass in the face in an unprovoked attack . the assault take place in a pub outside Manchester Piccadilly within the jurisdiction of British Transport police . since then , despite CCTV capture a clear image of the suspect , no arrest have be make . my constituent feel disappoint that the transport police have not get justice for his son , who suffer life - change injury . will my right hon . friend meet I to discuss this distressing case and , more widely , to consider the remit and resourcing of British Transport police ? I be sorry to hear about that incident ; it must have be incredibly distress for my hon . friend ' s constituent . I will raise that case specifically with British Transport police , and I would be pleased to meet my hon . friend to discuss it far . I call Dave Doogan for the final question . thank you , Mr Speaker . while the Tories get excited about " get around for £ 2 " , under 22 in Scotland get around for free , because their fare be fund by the Scottish Government in a strategic paradigm shift to get people modal - shift over to public transport . will the English Government provide that same support to commuter in England , or be they too proud to follow Scotland ' s lead ? the hon . Gentleman could do well to recognise that fare in Scotland be up by over 10 % on an annualise basis , whereas in area of England they be fall . there be also no fare cap in Scotland for those over the age of 25 , whereas my constituent — many of they in low - pay work or look to go to work and get job — can get a £ 2 bus fare . on a recent visit to Scotland , I see people pay £ 8 or £ 9 to travel between some major town . actually , the Scottish Government would do well to follow the English Government ' s example . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . you have have notice of this . in Prime Minister ' s Question Time yesterday , the hon . member for Edinburgh North and Leith ( Deidre Brock ) ask the Prime Minister about compensation for those infected and affect by the contaminated blood scandal . the Prime Minister respond : " what I would say be that extensive work have be go on in Government for a long time , co - ordinated by the Minister for the Cabinet Office , as well as interim payment of £ 100 , 000 be make to those who be affect . " — [ Official Report , 25 October 2023 ; Vol . 738 , c . 830 . ] that be factually incorrect , and I hope that the record can be correct as not all those affect have receive interim payment . a parent who lose a child or a child who lose a parent in the scandal have receive no such interim payment , despite clear recommendation from Sir Brian Langstaff , the chair of the infected blood inquiry , that such payment should be extend immediately . that confusion by the Prime Minister and his official be deeply hurtful to those who be still wait for the Government to respond to Sir Brian Langstaff ' s second interim report on compensation publish in April . Sir Brian make it clear that the compensation scheme should be set up now and should begin work this year . we be nearly in November , very close to the end of 2023 , and there be still no clarity from the Government . we have no idea what progress the Government have make on their work , despite be tell repeatedly that it be at pace and they be work towards the original November deadline for the publication of the final report , which be now due out in March . surely they have some progress to report to the House . the Government have also fail to explain why victim of the infected blood scandal be be treat differently from the victim of the Post Office Horizon scandal , who rightly have receive compensation before the public inquiry into their scandal have conclude . if the Government be determined to needlessly delay justice to victim of the infected blood scandal , that make the need to extend interim payment to bereaved parent , child and sibling — as recommend by Sir Brian — even more critical . the clue be in the word — they be interim payment , to be make before the final compensation payment . that be why what the Prime Minister say yesterday be so wrong . there have be not one word on whether the interim payment will be extend . I wonder whether you might be able to assist I , Madam Deputy Speaker , in get the Government to tell the House of Commons what they be do in relation to Sir Brian ' s final recommendation on compensation . I thank the right hon . Lady for her point of order and for give notice of it . I know how hard she have campaign on this issue and that it be a matter of concern to member on all side of the House . she have raise a number of issue , some of which be ongoing and , I be sure , will be raise in other way . first , she say that she think the Prime Minister have perhaps make an incorrect statement . she will know that Mr Speaker be always very anxious that , if any incorrect information have be say inadvertently , it should be correct at the early opportunity . she have also raise a number of issue about when the Government might come forward with further information . fortunately , we have the Leader of the House here , who be listen closely to the right hon . Lady , and I think she wish to respond . far to that point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I will be brief . I be sure that , if there be business question , the right hon . Lady would have ask that question . I thank she for the work that she and her all - party parliamentary group on haemophilia and contaminate blood have do . the position that she set out be correct . I be here yesterday , and I do not think that the Prime Minister seek to state that it be otherwise . give we do not have a business statement today , I will write to the Minister for the Cabinet Office and Paymaster General , my right hon . friend the Member for Horsham ( Jeremy Quin ) , on the specific issue of those affect who have not receive interim compensation payment , to ask that he consider what she have say today and update she and the House at the early opportunity . I would stress that the compensation study be set up to be concurrent with the inquiry , so that we could move swiftly to make amend for this appalling injustice . I know , because I have meeting with my official yesterday , that that be very much the view of the Minister . he be determined to make progress on these thing quickly and on the practical thing that we can do in the interim . the right hon . Lady have my assurance on that . my involvement be to ensure that , if any legislation be need , we be ready to do that . I reassure the House — and thank she for the opportunity to do so — that this Government , which set up the inquiry , be determined to ensure that all people infect and affected have justice . I thank the Leader of the House for her statement . I be sure that the right hon . Lady will follow up and there will be some liaison about how to go forward . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I provide advance notice of it to Mr Speaker early . a few day ago , the Sunday Times report on its front page that a " Hamas fugitive " who " ' run the group ' s terrorist operation in the West Bank ' " live here in London . Muhammad Qassem Sawalha be designate by Israel as a senior Hamas operative in Europe and accuse of flee the country with fake document . he be now believe to hold UK citizenship . Zaher Birawi live in Barnet not far from Sawalha . he be designate by Israel in 2013 as a senior Hamas operative in Europe . he be list as a trustee of a UK register charity , education aid for Palestinians . a publicly available video show he host a 2019 event in London title " Understanding Hamas " . two week ago , Hamas launch the deadly terror attack the world have see since 9 / 11 . this House rightly vote to proscribe Hamas in its entirety in November 2021 . it be therefore a serious national security risk for Hamas operative to be live here in London , especially where at least one appear to have do so through the use of fake document in obtain british citizenship . Madam Deputy Speaker , can you advise I on how I might raise this with the Government as a matter of great urgency and ask if you have have any indication of a Minister seek to come to the House to provide an urgent update on this matter ? I thank the hon . gentleman for notice of his point of order . I hope that he will understand that I can not comment on individual case . I have have no notice of a statement , but he have put the issue on the record and those on the Government Benches will have hear his point . Deputy Speakers order , that , far to the Orders of 30 January and 23 February 2023 , paragraph ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) of the Order of 19 December 2022 relate to the appointment of Sir Roger Gale as Deputy Speaker and to the exercise of the function of the Chairman of Ways and Means shall continue to have effect up to and include 31 March 2024 . — ( Gagan Mohindra . ) Backbench Business Menopause I beg to move , that this House have consider the matter of the menopause . I thank the Backbench Business Committee for grant my hon . friend the Member for Swansea East ( Carolyn Harris ) this important and timely debate in October , which be World Menopause Awareness Month . regrettably , she be unable to attend or open the debate , so she have ask I , as a member and the treasurer of the all - party parliamentary group on menopause , to open the debate in her place . I be pleased and privileged to do so . I hope to do justice to her work , and that of the APPG and its supporter in this vital area affect the life of million of woman . the hon . Gentleman say that this affect million of woman but , as the husband of a menopausal woman , I feel it be incredibly important that man , in their role as colleague , friend or family member , have a deep understanding of the challenge of menopause , so that they can well support the woman in their life . do he agree ? the hon . member be absolutely spot on . that be why the APPG be work across so many area to develop people ' s understanding of menopause — not just woman but , importantly , man as well . the day of whisper the word " menopause " and keep the change in woman ' s body a secret and just get on with it , so to speak , be thankfully begin to be a thing of the past . the " Manifesto for Menopause " be launch last week at a celebratory breakfast in Parliament to mark World Menopause Day . alongside the publication of the group ' s " Manifesto for Menopause " , the reception feature new finding from a recent survey by Menopause Mandate of over 2 , 000 woman . it find — it be important to get this into context — that 96 % of menopausal woman ' s quality of life suffer as a result of their symptom and almost 50 % take over a year to realise that they might be peri or menopausal . my hon . friend be make a great contribution . woman have tell I that , when they experience symptom such as itchy skin , ache bone , depression and anxiety , their GPs advise they on how to treat those symptom , although the cause could be the menopause . do he agree that extra training and support could help gps to recognise menopause symptom well , and could therefore help many woman across the country ? that be a valid point and I shall be touch on it later . accord to the survey , only 12 % of menopausal woman be diagnose by healthcare professional , with a huge 60 % discover through their own research that they might be menopausal , and only 20 % have have a positive gp experience . among work woman , 64 % say that the menopause have a negative impact on they , but only 29 % of their employer have a menopause policy . I commend the hon . gentleman for raise this issue . it be a massive issue for my constituent and the personal experience through my own wife be very clear . give that 10 % of woman leave work during the menopause , say that they feel and have feel unsupported and unable to continue — which really should not be the case — do he agree that there should be a great obligation on business to help woman ? that be another point that I will touch on later , but the hon . Gentleman be spot on . anyone who happen to be in Westminster Hall on Wednesday last week will be able to testify to the work that the APPG have do . More than 100 member and other gather for a photograph to mark and celebrate World Menopause Day . my hon . friend the Member for Swansea East say she be not sure that visitor to Westminster Hall be ready to see so many woman parliamentarian and other do impromptu exercise squat . however , she also say that , if it be a good enough location for Henry VIII to play real tennis , it be certainly good enough for a group of menopausal woman to highlight the benefit of exercise to their physical health and mental wellbeing . the fact that those influential woman , grassroots campaigner and clinical expert be bring together in Parliament show the world that Westminster be listen ; but listen alone be not enough while woman continue to suffer . listening will not help they get a diagnosis or access to treatment , or find the support they need . that require action , and on World Menopause Day the APPG , which be chair by my hon . friend the Member for Swansea East , launch the menopause manifesto . base on evidence that the group gather by speak to those affect by the menopause and expert in the field , the manifesto set out seven recommendation , which we be urge all party to adopt in their own manifesto ahead of the next general election . I can not stress enough how important it be to the 13 million woman in the UK who be currently perimenopausal or menopausal , and to all around they who be indirectly affect — the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) raise that point — to know that those in power will support they . the first recommendation in the manifesto be for health check . every time that be mention in conversation , people be genuinely surprised that it do not already happen . many will remember receive , on turn 40 — along with the card , gift and the good wish — an invitation to a 40 + NHS health check . those " mot " monitor our weight and blood pressure , and be use to assess the risk of develop condition such as diabete , heart disease and stroke . what they do not include for woman , at present , be any question about , advice on or reference to the menopause , which be at good a surprise and at worst quite shocking . there be strong evidence show that many woman be access primary care and be treat for individual symptom because neither they nor their clinician be recognise the root cause of those symptom — a point raise early by my hon . friend the Member for Blaenau Gwent ( Nick Smith ) . by raise awareness among medical professional , who can , in turn , help to educate woman at their 40 - plus health check , we can reduce the number of extra visit that woman make to surgery and prevent further misdiagnosis and inaccurate prescribing . we can also dramatically increase the number of woman who get prompt and correct diagnosis and access to treatment pathway . we know that this would save the NHS money in the long run . many healthcare provider be now start to include menopause in their standard package , have identify the fact that patient be be send for appointment in secondary care for an array of symptom that have not be correctly diagnose as menopause . by include menopause treatment as standard , they be reduce the cost to the NHS of these unnecessary appointment . the second recommendation of the APPG ' s manifesto be a national formulary for hormone replacement therapy . although HRT be not the answer for all woman , million across the country rely on this treatment to manage their symptom . we know that , in a 10 - minute consultation , prescriber do not have the capacity to go search for alternative treatment if a patient ' s usual product be out of stock , and we have see a supply shortage for many of these product . a national formulary would resolve this issue , as all eligible product would be easily accessible on surgery system , thus eliminate the postcode lottery and regional variation that woman be currently experience . the hon . Gentleman be most gracious in give way . he mention that there be sometimes disparity from , say , county to county . there be also regional disparity . I know he accept that , and the Minister have take note too . when it come to provide well treatment , a recommendation have to be that every part of the United Kingdom — England , Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland — should have an agree strategy for help woman . do he agree that there should be the same policy , the same strategy and the same response everywhere ? I agree with the hon . Gentleman . it be crucial that woman be able to go to any surgery and , although there may be marginal difference in treatment or access to treatment , the substance be that they should ultimately get more or less the same access and the same treatment , depend on their need . the third recommendation also relate to prescriber . the manifesto call for the inclusion of menopause as an indicator within the GP quality and outcome framework . this change would help to balance the deficit in knowledge and understanding among GPs by incentivise improvement in diagnosis level and treatment provision within primary care . if clinician be well inform , they would be more confident in discuss menopause with patient at their health check and in prescribe appropriate treatment , which would greatly benefit patient who visit their gp to seek support . move away from healthcare , I be proud to say that , early this year , Labour commit to the fourth recommendation : mandate that all company with more than 250 employee introduce menopause action plan to support those experience symptom . that go some way to address the point raise by hon . member . alongside this , the APPG would like to see the provision of specific guidance for small and medium - sized enterprise and the introduction of tax incentive to encourage company to integrate menopause in their occupational health plan . there be great example of company embrace the issue , and there be some excellent tool available to help , such as the British Standards Institute ' s menstruation , menstrual health and menopause in the workplace standard . with research show that one in 10 woman be leave the workforce and thousand more be reduce their hour or avoid promotion , it be vital that more be do to address the impact of menopause on woman ' s economic participation . the APPG be not ask for woman to be give special treatment ; we be ask merely for an understanding that work arrangement and environment may need to be flexible . this willingness to incorporate flexibility will benefit business , boost the economy and give woman the confidence to progress in their career . the manifesto ' s fifth requirement be about the licensing of testosterone for woman . it have always strike I as odd that when woman reach menopausal age , which be different for everyone , they become deficient in three hormone — oestrogen , progesterone and testosterone — yet only the first two be available to woman when they be prescribe hormone replacement therapy on the NHS . as my hon . friend the Member for Swansea East have note previously , if a woman want the third hormone , they have to pay for a private prescription . the all - party group be call for an evaluation of female - specific testosterone treatment , with a view to their be license by the Medicines and Healthcare product Regulatory Agency . in the sixth recommendation , we be call for well funding for research into the potential link between menopause and other health condition , as well as the vary experience of woman from different background and ethnicity — that be very important . we know from the evidence that the APPG have receive that those with condition such as autism and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder can struggle more with their menopausal symptom , and that those who have be treat for cancer often experience early menopause . so it be vital that much more be do to well understand the different journey that woman from different background be experience . in the past week , my hon . Friend tell I say that she have be lucky enough to visit two university , one in London and the other in her own home city of Swansea . both be keen to do more to support their staff and to bridge the significant gap in understanding around more complex menopause experience . I thank the hon . Gentleman very much for the scene he be set . small and micro - business be predominantly male - own , so the issue for they be understand how to put over the request on behalf of lady who be go through the menopause . do he feel that the Government and the Minister should take that on board as well , to ensure that those business have the relevant information and guidance to do that within the small workforce that they look after ? the hon . Gentleman make a good point and set out an excellent idea . I be sure that the Minister , as part of the expansion or integration of the manifesto , can take it on board . as I be say , my hon . friend be delighted that Swansea University announce last Friday that it would be introduce menopause into the curriculum for all of its medical student , as well as launch a menopause clinic for staff and student . I truly hope that it will be the first of many university to do this . future policy in this area , and an improved woman ' s health strategy , will be possible only if more funding be dedicate to this vital research . the seventh and final part of the manifesto call for a review of the demand for specialist menopause care . we need to look at exist provision , evaluate where increase secondary care be need and assess other way in which woman could seek help . that might , for example , include access to specialist nurse in primary care and pharmacist , to ease the demand on GPs . that be another simple recommendation that would be easy to achieve , while have a significant impact on the care and support that woman be able to access . nothing in the all - party group ' s manifesto be difficult to achieve ; no big contract or big budget be need to make the change that will significantly improve woman ' s experience . the only thing that be need be a commitment to prioritise this area of woman ' s health . we need a commitment to improve support , diagnosis and access to treatment for all those who need it . who would not want that ? I know that every member of this House would want it . we need a commitment to show the 51 % of the population who will directly experience menopause that they matter — that they really matter . it be an absolute pleasure to follow my good friend the hon . member for Bootle ( Peter Dowd ) . I be originally excited to see that the hon . member for Swansea East ( Carolyn Harris ) be go to be open the debate , simply because her enthusiasm for this subject be contagious and draw people in , but he have do incredible justice to the opening of the debate . it be marvellous to see a number of male colleague in the Chamber . I grow up in a house with five brother and an irish Catholic mother , and the word " menopause " would in no circumstance ever have cross her lip . I then go to an all - boy school and go on to do civil engineering at university . there be no girl at my school and just two woman on my civil engineering course , in the whole of the department , so my exposure to woman be somewhat limited until I finally get off the building site and into a traditional workplace . there I find that man whose experience be not as shelter as mine have no great knowledge or understanding of this topic , although I feel they have far less excuse . so when my wife begin to experience the symptom of the menopause , originally neither she nor I , nor her gp , fully understand what be go on — certainly , menopause be not the initial diagnosis . that highlight for I how difficult and challenging it must be for some woman : they present to their gp , the GP misdiagnose or misunderstand their symptom , and then the problem be protract because the appropriate treatment be not identify quickly enough . with an understanding of that and as an MP represent the good people of Willenhall , Bloxwich and Walsall North , it be important to I to engage as much as possible with people who could help . we find a place for a menopause caf é — somewhere where woman and man could come and sit down and talk about this topic , over a cup of tea and a slice of cake , in a relaxed environment . I think it be beholden on we , particularly male colleague , in our role as mps , to do everything we can to ensure that everybody be as well informed as possible . as I say in my intervention , in our male role as family member , friend and relative , it be incredibly important for we to first understand the symptom and the range of appropriate treatment available , so that we can fully provide the necessary support . the hon . Gentleman have mention family , group and work colleague . do he agree that woman who go through early menopause may find it difficult to discuss the subject with their employer ? those conversation need to be have , to ensure that woman of any age be support and enable to engage fully in all aspect of their workplace instead of be exclude , perhaps unintentionally . I thank the hon . gentleman for that intervention . give that my wife , myself and her GP do not fully understand what the symptom be and at what age they could arise , it be completely understandable that an employer might be challenge in term of provide such support . that be why it be vital that we do our good to ensure that everybody be as well informed as possible , because , exactly as the hon . Gentleman say , such symptom might start to appear at any age , so it be important that their root cause be identify quickly and people can provide that support . I be delighted to say that , now that my wife have a very senior role in her company , it be easy for she to drive that ethos throughout the company . I pay credit to phs Group for its work countrywide . I have invite the hon . member for Swansea East to come and speak at one of its office in the south of Wales — I hope we can arrange that soon . I pay tribute to all colleague in the Chamber today , particularly the man in our role as champion , fight side by side with the woman to ensure that this topic be completely understand by as many people as possible , so that we can all provide the support that be so well deserve . it be a pleasure to speak in this debate , with my hon . friend the Member for Bootle ( Peter Dowd ) step in to lead it so ably , show that menopause be not just a woman ' s issue , but a health issue that affect more than half the population . as such , it should be of concern to we all , as be so ably highlight by the hon . member for Walsall North ( Eddie Hughes ) , whom I be pleased to follow in this debate . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Swansea East ( Carolyn Harris ) for all her hard work in this area , which be well know right across the House . I congratulate she on secure this debate . I be only sorry that she be unable to be in her place today , but I know how dedicated she be to this issue and I be sure that her important work will be reflect throughout the debate , because , as many of we know , there be no stop she when she get go . this be a timely debate , which I will use as an opportunity to draw attention to the link between osteoporosis and the menopause . the menopause be an important time for bone health . when woman reach the menopause , oestrogen level decrease , which cause many woman to develop symptom , such as hot flush and sweat . the decrease in oestrogen level also cause loss of bone density , so the menopause be an important cause of osteoporosis . while one in five man develop osteoporosis in their lifetime , half of all woman over 50 will have to learn to live with it . this summer , the all - party parliamentary group on osteoporosis and bone health , which I chair , have work in partnership with the Royal Osteoporosis Society to run the Better Bones campaign . our campaign call for a timely diagnosis for the 90 , 000 people — most of they woman — who currently remain undiagnosed and untreated . I be call on the Government to introduce universal access to fracture liaison service , the world standard for fracture prevention . we know that osteoporosis be one of the world ' s most urgent health issue . seventy five per cent of 90 , 000 people miss out on anti - osteoporosis medication be woman . that be why the Fawcett Society and the British Menopause Society be among the many charity and organisation support the Better Bones campaign . everyone lose bone density and strength as they get old , but woman lose bone density more rapidly in the year follow menopause , often lose up to 20 % of their bone density during this time . with this loss of bone density come reduce bone strength and a great risk of fracture . when treat , people can expect to live normal , healthy life . sadly , as it currently stand , a quarter of woman have to endure more than three fracture before receive the diagnosis that they so desperately need . place osteoporosis at the forefront of menopause care be paramount to ensure that woman maintain good health throughout the menopause period and beyond . in 2021 , the all - party parliamentary group produce a report highlight the benefit of fracture liaison service in ensure quick diagnosis and access to safe , effective medication , which can then strengthen patient ' bone . their proven success be why the FLS model be the world standard for fracture prevention , use in more than 50 country . however , in this country , only 57 % of the eligible population have access to fracture liaison service . I be use this debate to call on the Government to provide 100 % fracture liaison service coverage for people live in the UK , end the postcode lottery once and for all . in August , the Health Minister publicly state that the Government would make an announcement on establish more fracture liaison service by the end of this year . then in September , in the other place , a Government Minister state that the autumn statement would include a package of prioritise measure to increase the number of fls and their quality . I understand that , since then , there have be a walking back on this commitment , but , on behalf of the 90 , 000 people miss the life - save and life - change medication , I ask the Government to hold their nerve and to act quickly . full FLS coverage would cost £ 27 million per year in additional funding , with a total benefit of £ 440 million over five year . fls deliver a return on investment of more than £ 3 for every £ 1 invest , and 100 % fls coverage would also prevent 74 , 000 fracture within five year , release 750 , 000 hospital bed day . therefore , place osteoporosis at the forefront of menopause care be essential for the future of woman ' s health in this country , ensure that woman go through menopause can continue to live healthy and fulfilling life . the decision to provide full FLS coverage in England not only be fiscally responsible and right , but would be an historic leap forward in woman ' s healthcare in this country . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Swansea East ( Carolyn Harris ) for secure this important debate during World Menopause Awareness Month , and my hon . friend the Member for Bootle ( Peter Dowd ) for his powerful opening speech . when I first come to this place , I never imagine that I would be stand here talk about menopause , but I be delighted to say that tomorrow in my constituency of Merthyr Tydfil and Rhymney we be host a menopause in the workplace workshop . this be the third event of its kind in south Wales , follow on from other in Swansea and Cardiff , and I be thrilled that I be able to help local business in our community to well understand what they can do to support the people who work for they . as my hon . friend the Member for Bootle mention , in its manifesto for menopause , launch last week , the all - party parliamentary group on menopause call on all political party to commit to support those experience the menopause in their own manifesto ahead of the next general election . one of the call be for future government to mandate company that employ more than 250 people to introduce menopause action plan — something that Labour have already say that it will commit to . almost half of the UK work population be woman , and those over 50 be the fast grow group in the workplace , which highlight why this issue be such a priority . we need to retain the skill and experience that those woman have and support they so that they continue to thrive in their career as they grow old , but evidence suggest that there be a lot of work to be do . with one in 10 woman leave the workforce because of their menopause symptom , and thousand more reduce hour and avoid promotion , it be vital that employer be give the tool to support those woman and to change that . there be no one - size - fit - all answer . working environment differ greatly , as do woman ' s experience . with more than 40 possible symptom , from hot flush to brain fog , and insomnia to anxiety , woman will all have their own individual need when it come to support at work , so we need business to commit to put an action plan in place that work for they and their employee . it might include flexible working hour , if woman be have to travel on busy public transport ; alternative uniform that be considerate of the symptom that woman may experience ; a guarantee desk near a window that can be open ; or the introduction of support group , menopause champion , or management training in the business . we need a guarantee from employer that they will support staff who be experience symptom to remain in work and to progress in their career . as I mention , tomorrow in my constituency of Merthyr Tydfil and Rhymney we be welcome a host of business to an event at Merthyr town football club , to give they guidance on what more they can do . I be delighted to do my part to help with that , and I be grateful for the support of my hon . friend the Member for Swansea East in make it happen . the whole House will know just how powerful an advocate my hon . friend be . I can think of no one well to be a menopause champion than she . I pay tribute to she for all the work that she have do , and continue to do , on this and many other topic . we have come a long way in recent year , break down the barrier and make the menopause something that we be now all talk about . there be still lot to do in term of raise awareness , but a start have be make . attend a session of menopause word bingo with my hon . friend be not something that I have think I would do , but it help to raise my awareness , which in turn will help I to advocate on behalf of the constituent I represent . now we need to take the next step to ensure that woman be support and give the help that they need in the workplace and beyond . I commend the APPG on bring this important issue to the House , and I thank the Backbench Business Committee for grant today ' s debate . the menopause be a time of change for every woman . for some , it can be completely debilitate . big physical and emotional change in one ' s body can be extremely unsettling . some 51 % of our population be woman , who all go through the menopause , yet the experience of the menopause remain shroud in mystery and stigma . that mean there be far too many barrier to support . too often , woman must fight before their symptom be take seriously , which add insult to injury . the culture of silence that surround menopause make bearing and deal with symptom even hard . research by the Fawcett Society find that only 22 % of people who experience menopause disclose it at work , because they be worried about the stigma they may face . why should woman feel too ashamed to talk ? the Government ' s appointment of the first menopause employment champion be a step in the right direction to start this much - need conversation . however , it have take far too long and there be still much to do . as we have hear , many woman choose to leave the workforce prematurely because they feel unsupported by their employer during the menopause . that be not new information : the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development find in 2019 that almost 900 , 000 woman in the UK have leave their job because of menopause symptom , and we have make little progress since . woman with year of experience be still force to sacrifice their career , retire early or choose not to put themselves forward for promotion . not only do that contribute to an absence of woman in executive position , but it lessen workplace productivity . eight out of 10 woman say that their employer have not give they adequate support . I be pleased to hear of good example in this space ; it be important that we share they , because there be still far too many bad example . such support could include a menopause absence policy to help woman balance their career with the major life change associate with the menopause . I welcome the Government ' s commitment in the woman ' s health strategy to ensure that employer be well equipped to support woman during the menopause , but the Government have show little interest in trialling menopause leave in England , despite the evidence present by the Women and Equalities Committee that it would make considerable saving . the private sector be begin to understand the economic benefit of menopause leave . the Government should explore all avenue to good support woman experience menopause , include a trial to see the benefit of menopause leave . alongside difficult everyday symptom , those who experience menopause face risk to their health . during menopause , the body produce less oestrogen , which can increase the risk of coronary heart disease , heart attack and stroke . woman also face great risk of osteoporosis — I be pleased that the hon . member for Bradford South ( Judith Cummins ) talk extensively about that — cause by the loss of bone density in the first few year after the menopause . I be proud that the Royal Osteoporosis Society be base in Bath , and I congratulate it on its campaign with the Sunday Express for great access to fracture liaison service and a good standard of service across the country . we have hear today about the Better Bones campaign . I hope that everyone in the Chamber will champion it and help it along , because we really need that gold standard across all hospital trust . the Royal Osteoporosis Society have a very helpful helpline that everyone can access . just by google the Royal Osteoporosis Society , every woman can access advice , which be so necessary . we have also hear extensively about hormone replacement therapy , which can lessen the health risk from menopause . HRT be a welcome treatment for many struggle with menopause symptom . it can reduce hot flush and protect cardiovascular health . however , it remain out of reach for many woman across the UK . woman face a postcode lottery when it come to access vital HRT treatment . a report conduct by the APPG on menopause last year find that there be a stark socioeconomic divide between woman who can access HRT and those leave without it . financial struggle should not be a barrier to healthcare . I commend the APPG on menopause for all seven of its recommendation . the call for all party to include those recommendation in their manifesto be a good one . we Liberal Democrats welcome new measure to ensure that woman in England pay less for repeat HRT prescription . however , the list of exemption for prescription charge be out of date : it have not be fully update since 1968 and contain many anomaly . the current prescription charge system be grossly unfair and must be urgently reform . Menopause currently affect 13 million woman . we can not continue to allow a common health issue to force woman out of their job . it be unacceptable that access vital healthcare be still a postcode lottery . I have not actually experience any adverse symptom from menopause , but I be still completely uncertain about what to expect , and that in itself be very unsettling . young woman know what to expect when their period start , but why be old woman not give at least some advice by healthcare professional about what to expect when the menopause start , what the symptom be and so on and so forth ? it be very unsettling for every woman that complete mystery still surround the menopause , and that definitely need to change . I hope that the debate will help to break the culture of silence and end the stigma . I commend the hon . member for Bootle ( Peter Dowd ) for set the scene so well . I have make a few intervention , but I will add a few word to put on record my support for the motion , as I be here on behalf of my party . the hon . member for Walsall North ( Eddie Hughes ) make an interesting point to which I subscribe from a personal point of view . my wife Sandra go through this , and it be quite difficult for she , not just physically but emotionally . the hon . Gentleman put forward some incredibly helpful idea : well understanding in the home , well understanding in the family and well understanding in the workplace . I employ seven girl and one fella in full - time and part - time role , and although I be not well or more knowledgeable than anyone else , I do understand some of the issue that be apparent in the office . that understanding have to start with I and end with everyone in the staff to ensure that the right thing happen . over the last period , we have have a menopause support group in Northern Ireland . it be create for one reason . the hon . member for Walsall North refer to a private place . sometimes people need a private place where they can discuss their experience and talk about what be happen with other , share information on the perimenopause , the menopause and any hormone - relate issue . I know the knowledge that woman will be able to give each other in those private circumstance and discussion . that be so very important . the hon . member for Bradford South ( Judith Cummins ) , who have the Adjournment debate on osteoporosis , remind we all of the increase risk of osteoporosis , fracture and brittle bone through menopause . she clearly and helpfully remind we that when it come to understand those thing well , the health sector need to be a big part of the picture . it be important that everybody understand that osteoporosis lead to many premature death . that be why we need to talk more about it . I be glad that we have all be talk about osteoporosis in connection with the menopause . do the hon . Gentleman agree that we need to raise awareness of it , because it lead to many premature death ? I thank the hon . Lady for her intervention . I refer to the group in Northern Ireland because , in many case , we find that it be the woman themselves who be initiate the private support group and ensure that thing be happen . I ask the Minister , be there any help from Government to ensure that these advice group be available ? to go back to the subject of osteoporosis , the hon . member for Bradford South be right . in my office , I have a staff member specifically task with look after benefit issue , and the work for that lady be enormous ; she be probably work the equivalent of a five or six - day week . she tell I that , in many case , the issue be access to personal independence payment . I know that this do not come under the Minister ' s Department , but be there a process in place to help lady understand and apply for that benefit , which be there for a purpose ? government have create the benefit system , and people should never feel that they should not apply for a benefit if it be there for they , which I believe it be . when people be drain and emotionally raw , which many be , and when the sweat mean they have to shower several time a day and they need prompt to eat and take care of themselves , we need a system , and we need someone there to help along the way . I be my party ' s health spokesperson , and I want to add my support to all those who have speak . the Government need to be proactive and ensure that guidance be give to business , so that they can do thing the right way . some 45 % of woman feel that menopausal symptom have a negative impact on their work , and 47 % say they need to take a day off work due to the menopause . that underline the need for support . with that , I will conclude , ever mindful that we be fortunate to have a shadow Minister , the hon . member for Erith and Thamesmead ( Abena Oppong - Asare ) , who will add her support to the debate — I look forward to hear from she — and a Minister who well understand our request . I be very confident that we will have the help we need , not for we , but for our constituent , for the woman who contact I , for my wife and for all the other woman who find it very hard to deal with these issue . I call the shadow Minister . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Swansea East ( Carolyn Harris ) on secure this important Backbench Business debate ; I be sure we all agree that she have be a fantastic champion on this issue . I would also like to thank my hon . friend the Member for Bootle ( Peter Dowd ) for open the debate . I can say with certainty that he do this debate justice , talk powerfully about the concern of my hon . friend the Member for Swansea East , as well as reference where improvement need to be make and the newly launch " Manifesto for Menopause " by the menopause APPG . they have do fantastic work . I thank those who have contribute to today ' s discussion . it have be particularly uplifting to see male colleague also speak in the debate . it be important that we all discuss this issue and that it be not just on the shoulder of woman to raise it . as the hon . member for Walsall North ( Eddie Hughes ) say , our role as mps be to inform people , and particularly man , who have a powerful role to play in provide the support that be need . he also talk about the phs Group , which have be do great work on this issue . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Bradford South ( Judith Cummins ) , who highlight really well the fact that menopause be not just a woman ' s issue but a health issue for everyone . my hon . friend the Member for Merthyr Tydfil and Rhymney ( Gerald Jones ) talk about how company can play a role by ensure that employee be support through the menopause and about Labour ' s plan for the workforce . he highlight the fact that over half of the workforce be woman , and with one in 10 woman leave work because of the menopause , we need to do more to retain their skill . the hon . member for Bath ( Wera Hobhouse ) powerfully explain how woman have to fight before symptom be take seriously , and the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) talk about how his wife go through menopause and how it be important to understand this issue at home . I thank he for share his personal story . as we all know , for far too long woman ' s health have be a marginalised issue , and when it come to woman ' s health , the issue of menopause be critical . it affect every woman , yet time and time again , we in this country have neglect do the right and obvious thing : to support woman experience the menopause . I will not be present any groundbreaking information today , since all member present be aware of the inadequate quality of care and support that woman currently receive . for instance , there be the staggering finding — which have be highlight — that nearly one in 10 woman must consult their gp on 10 separate occasion before receive proper guidance and support regard the menopause . of those woman who do eventually receive treatment , 44 % wait at least one year , and 12 % wait more than five year . I be sure member agree that those statistic be staggering . one in 10 woman have quit their job because of menopause symptom , despite the fact that menopause affect every woman . as my hon . friend the Member for Swansea East have mention on previous occasion , although woman be 51 % of the UK population , only 59 % of medical school include mandatory menopause education in their curriculum . far important finding be release last week by Menopause Mandate reinforce the inadequacy of support . those finding confirm that not only do nearly all woman experience the menopause find that the symptom have a negative impact on their quality of life , but the vast majority face negative experience at their gp and significant barrier at work . the finding that only 24 % of woman have a positive experience at their GP be surely a damn indication of how much far there be to go . I warmly welcome the release of the manifesto by the APPG on menopause and the important word that have be speak by Members today . it be one step far in this positive campaign , and in the work my hon . friend the Member for Swansea East have do to put the menopause on the map and act on an issue that have be in the shadow for far too long . she be a trailblazer , and I be privileged to have the opportunity in my new brief to work more closely alongside she on these issue and make sure we realise many of the change she have be fight for . education on the menopause be the first important step towards progress : when see our gp , we rely on their knowledge and guidance , yet too often , we hear story of woman who go to their gp again and again without proper diagnosis . some woman have say that it be a gamble whether their individual doctor prescribe they the treatment they need , which have be echo in some of the contribution to this debate . it be therefore essential that we seek to improve the education and training of healthcare professional across the NHS with regard to the menopause . as well as look at those who be train now , we must look at those who be currently practise — those whom we currently rely on to diagnose and assist the million of woman experience the menopause today . furthermore , as with all health concern , early detection be essential . when it come to menopause , early detection can prevent much unnecessary pain and suffering . that be why Labour have be so focused on make our health and care service deliver a prevention first revolution that would support our NHS , our economy and , importantly , woman . if we fail to progress on awareness , early detection and prevention , we be surely fail at the first hurdle . turn to the availability of hormone replacement therapy product , I want first to commend the progress that have be make , and again praise the work of my hon . friend the Member for Swansea East . it be her private Member ' s Bill and her determined campaigning which , two year ago , see the Government finally commit to reduce dramatically the cost of HRT prescription for woman in England . I commend she on not give up — on raise awareness and constantly push for change on this issue . it be also important to acknowledge the positive step we be introduce , with a dedicated page on the NHS website for woman ' s health . I hope this become an invaluable source for woman to access the late information and advice on menopause , HRT and all woman ' s health issue . but while progress have be make on access to HRT , the Minister will surely be aware that woman face an HRT postcode lottery , and , as with so many health issue , those in the most deprived area be least likely to receive support . it be important that we tackle the structural inequality that contribute to poor health for disadvantaged group . additionally , we must not forget the serious failure that have lead to the continued shortage of HRT drug . woman seek to access HRT be still be fail by the system , with drug unavailable and alternative out of reach . this have leave so many woman with debilitate symptom , extend unnecessary pain and suffering . education and inform clinician be no good if we do not also improve access to HRT and end shortage . as my hon . friend the Member for Swansea East have say , it be a very bad sign when only 14 % of the 13 million woman experience the menopause in this country be get treatment . I hope the Minister can update the House on the Government ' s action on ensure that shortage of these essential treatment do not happen again and improve access to HRT for woman . fundamental to progress for woman experience menopause would be progress for woman in the workplace . as my hon . friend the Member for Oxford East ( Anneliese Dodds ) have announce , a Labour Government would advance this issue by bring in menopause action plan for large employer and publish guidance for small business to support woman suffer with menopause symptom . these important step be part of our plan for a new deal for work people and will make Britain work for work woman . these reform will give hope to woman and significantly help all who work so hard to hold their job and care for their child and family while experience the challenge and symptom of menopause . this be the right thing to do for these woman , but it be also good for employer and the economy as a whole . it be a tragedy that one in 10 woman experience menopause leave their job and 14 % reduce their hour due to lack of support in the workplace . that mean hundred of thousand of woman be reduce their hour , give up promotion or quit their job because of the menopause . labour be on the side of these woman , wherever they work , and unlike the Government , we have commit to take the require action . do the Minister not agree they be fail woman in the workplace and damage the economy as a result ? I finish by praise all who take part in the menopause revolution in our country . I be sure the whole House will agree that not only have this revolution begin but that it will continue to grow . central to the revolution be my hon . friend the Member for Swansea East , whom I congratulate again on champion this cause . if we get this right , the difference we can make for the million of menopausal woman will be life - change , benefit they and all future generation of woman , so that no woman have to suffer in silence again . I congratulate the hon . member for Swansea East ( Carolyn Harris ) on secure this debate , and I be sad she be not here to join we this afternoon because we have hold this debate on almost an annual basis and have make huge progress in achieve some of she ask . she be a tireless voice for woman in this place , always raise awareness and inspire action , and I be very proud to be work with she as co - chair of the menopause taskforce . one key piece of work by the Government have be to respond to one of her ask and reduce the cost of NHS prescription for HRT . of course , there be much to be do . our woman ' s health strategy have make the menopause a key priority area . for far too long , woman ' s health be a secondary consideration . this Government have put it top of the agenda — menopause , fertility , baby loss , dementia and osteoporosis be now priority area for this Government — and we be the first Government to do so . there have be a menopause revolution here this morning . I really thank the hon . member for Bootle ( Peter Dowd ) for present the debate . we have hear from four male colleague — the hon . member for Merthyr Tydfil and Rhymney ( Gerald Jones ) and for Bootle , my hon . friend the Member for Walsall North ( Eddie Hughes ) and the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) — which be twice the number of woman back Benchers contribute . it be absolutely positive news that we have make so much progress that the menopause matter to man as much as it do to woman . in my own Department , to mark World Menopause Day we organise a session during which official try on the world ' s first menopause simulator , so that man could experience some of the side effect . it be a great success , and many male colleague go away with an enhanced appreciation of woman ' s experience of the menopause . I also thank the all - party parliamentary group for its important work . it do a huge amount to shine a light on the issue , particularly with its manifesto for menopause . I hope the House will give I some time to update it on the progress we have make since our last debate in the Chamber . first , a number of member have mention the HRT prepayment certificate . it have be roll out since April , and woman can pay less than £ 20 a year for all their HRT prescription for 12 month . many woman be on multiple product — they be often on dual hormone — and each of those have a prescription cost . however , just to reassure colleague , about 89 % of all prescription be not pay for and there be no charge , and for HRT about 60 % pay no prescription charge at all . for those who do , the £ 20 a year absolutely make a difference , and it could save woman hundred of pound on the cost of their HRT . in the spring , we launch a successful campaign to alert woman to these change , and I be really pleased to say that , as of the end of September , well over 400 , 000 woman in England have purchase a HRT prescription prepayment certificate . for anyone who have not get one yet , they can be purchase online , but they can also be purchase in some pharmacy . the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Erith and Thamesmead ( Abena Oppong - Asare ) , mention HRT supply , which have be an issue over recent month . we have see a huge wave of woman come forward ask for HRT from their gp , and GPs have be much more comfortable in prescribe HRT , which do put pressure on supply . there be over 70 product available in the United Kingdom , and in fact the majority of they remain in good supply . we have hold six roundtable with supplier , wholesaler and community pharmacist to discuss the challenge they be face , and these have deliver result . since April last year , there be 23 serious shortage protocol for HRT — relevant to 23 product — but as of today only one of those remain in place . that mean that at the moment there be only one product for which there be a serious shortage protocol , mean alternative dispense or reduce dispensing occur . we be hold a seventh roundtable later this month , and manufacturer be confident that , in produce and secure more , there will be supply to be use . that be a real success story , and when woman have their prescription , they can be confident that their prescription will be available at their pharmacy . a key part of our menopause taskforce have be talk about research into the menopause and management of the menopause . the National Institute for Health and Care Research have conduct an exercise to identify research priority , which conclude in January . I can not remember which hon . Member mention testosterone , but research into how testosterone can alleviate menopausal symptom have be identify as a gap . it be not license for use in the menopause because there be not currently the evidence base for the Medicines and Healthcare product Regulatory Agency to allow a licence . have that research into testosterone and the improvement it could bring be a crucial step towards any licensing of that hormone . that be why it request bid for organisation to come forward with research proposal in this area , and we expect an update in December . I be also pleased to update that between April last year and July this year , the NIHR have invest £ 53 million to support woman ' s health . on World Menopause Day , it fund the James Lind Alliance to launch its menopause priority - set partnership . that be crucial in develop the evidence base for well management of the menopause . I will just touch on a number of other point that be raise . first , on health check , I have ask the NHS health check advisory group to review the case for include the menopause in the NHS health check alongside its broad future consideration on the health check , follow the delivery of the digital check next spring . I will keep the House update on that work , particularly the hon . member for Swansea East , as co - chair of the menopause taskforce , because it be crucial that it be include . we have start the process to set up woman ' s health hub across every ICB in the country , because our ambition be for woman and girl to access service for woman ' s health more generally in the place where they live . that be why we be invest £ 25 million to expand woman ' s health hub across England . Hubs will deliver a range of healthcare experience , but we would expect the menopause and advice on it to be cover by woman ' s health hub . we be meet icb shortly to get an update on progress . one other point raise be about conduct a review into specialist menopause care . it be important to remember that specialist menopause care be not fund by central Government , but be commission by integrate care board and implement at a local level . they have a statutory responsibility to commission healthcare that meet the need of whole population , include for the menopause , but we know that be not always happen on the ground . I acknowledge that the Government be make good progress on this topic , and I thank the Minister for that . have say that , my hon . friend the Member for Erith and Thamesmead ( Abena Oppong - Asare ) speak from the Labour Front Bench about training and development for GPs on support woman with menopause symptom . can I press the Minister to tell we more about the Government ' s plan to boost training and development for clinician to help woman experience the menopause ? the hon . Gentleman make a valid point , and I will come on to that in a moment , because we be make huge progress there . if I may , I will touch on specialist support for the menopause . we will be work with icb , and when we meet shortly to ask for update , we will be look at the progress be make at the local level in provide that support . we have try to ensure that information for woman be as accessible as possible . we launch our dedicated woman ' s health area on the NHS website recently , where there be advice and support on the menopause , as well as for other health condition . that will be update regularly . woman now have a trusted source to go to for healthcare and advice . that include a new HRT medicine hub , provide information about the different type of HRT and other option , because HRT do not work for every woman , and sometimes woman have to try several type to get one that work for they . workplace support have also come up . as Employment Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Mid Sussex ( Mims Davies ) have make huge progress . in March , we appoint Helen Tomlinson , who be the menopause employment champion . this month , she publish a report with a four - point plan to improve menopause support in the workplace . organisation such as Wellbeing of woman offer support to business , small and large , on how to improve their offer to woman . many of the suggestion that have be make in this place be be take up , and they do make a difference . we hear from woman all the time about the difference they make . this month we launch a new space for guidance on the helptogrow . campaign . gov . uk website . large or small , business can get advice there about the difference they can make in the workplace not only in retain woman , but in have open conversation in the workplace . flexible working be a key part of that . to touch on the GP point , we be look this year to consult on the future of the quality and outcome framework , which be one of the measure use to look at health condition , to see whether the menopause should be include . we fully recognise the importance of ensure that GPs ask the right question so that woman get the right support . we intend to have those conversation with GPs about the QOF framework . we be also , rightly , look at staff training and develop education and training material for healthcare professional across the board , not just GPs , so that healthcare professional have well awareness of the menopause . my hon . friend the Member for Walsall North and the hon . member for Strangford point out that woman often go and ask for help , but their sign and symptom be not recognise as be relate to the menopause . our woman ' s health ambassador , Professor Dame Lesley Regan , be do crucial work on engagement in this place . we be also ensure that GPs be assess on menopause as a measure in their training . from next year , all medical student will have to complete a module that include menopause so that doctor , whether GPs in primary care or in secondary care , have well awareness of the sign and symptom and management of the menopause , so that when woman approach for help , they will be well support . I thank all hon . member for their contribution to the debate . we have take great stride in the last 12 month in supply of HRT and reduce the cost , roll out woman ' s health hub , but I know that there be more work to be do . I know also that the hon . member for Swansea East will be back to hold my foot to the fire , and I look forward to work with she as co - chair of the menopause taskforce . I thank all hon . member who take part in the debate . I also thank my hon . friend the Member for Swansea East , who regrettably can not be here . I hope that I have be able to do justice to the point she raise with I . I thank the hon . member for Walsall North ( Eddie Hughes ) for relate his personal experience and reinforce the need to provide the support that woman so rightly deserve . I also thank my hon . friend the Member for Bradford South ( Judith Cummins ) , who have do sterling work in relation to the Better Bones campaign and the inextricable link between osteoporosis and menopause . my hon . friend the Member for Merthyr Tydfil and Rhymney ( Gerald Jones ) be , as ever , work in his constituency . he refer to his menopause workshop . I be really interested in the word bingo . I be intrigue about that and will speak to he about it in due course . the hon . member for Bath ( Wera Hobhouse ) refer among other thing to the review of the prescription regime , which be really need . as ever , the intervention by the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) be spot - on , clear and precise . I be pleased to have his party ' s support on this matter . my hon . friend the Member for Blaenau Gwent ( Nick Smith ) , who intervene a couple of time — once on I — be focus on the key element of clinical awareness . I thank the shadow Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Erith and Thamesmead ( Abena Oppong - Asare ) , for her response , particularly in relation to labour ' s workplace charter . I be pleased about the reaffirmation of that . I also thank the Minister for refer to the four - point plan for the workplace that be in progress , to the QOF review and to training in menopause . we have cover a wide - range area . the seven recommendation or ask in the manifesto be out there for all to see . no doubt , we will return to this matter time and again . I hope that in the next 12 to 18 month we can make even more progress than we have in the past couple of year . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider the matter of the menopause . Petition Petition - Southbourne Crossroads Car Park I rise to present a petition regard propose development on the Southbourne Crossroads car park in my constituency . I hope that the Government , the Planning Inspectorate and Bournemouth , Christchurch and Poole Council , as well as the developer , will take note of the petition and the scale of local concern that the propose development have create . the petition declare that the development will lead to the loss of vital parking space , which be so important for our tourism offering , and have a detrimental impact on neighbouring resident ' legal right to light . I hope that the scale of the petition , with more than 1 , 500 signature include those online , demonstrate the anger and concern generate by the propose development . the petitioner request the House of Commons to urge the Government to review the plan to build on Southbourne Crossroads car park and the wide long - term parking strategy for Southbourne . the petition state : the petition of resident of the United Kingdom , declare that the propose development of Southbourne Crossroads Car Park in Bournemouth into a series of residential property would have a detrimental impact on the local community and Bournemouth ' s capacity to accommodate increase tourist number ; note that the propose development be object to at a local planning level under planning application 7 - 2021 - 28119 & 7 - 2022 - 28119A and then pass a review from the Planning Inspectorate under the appeal S78 / 2022 / 7409 & NON / 2022 / 7408A . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to take into account the concern of the large volume of petitioner from Bournemouth East who object to the development of Southbourne Crossroads Car Park and take immediate action to intervene in review the Planning Inspectorates decision to overturn the Local Planning Authority ' s original decision . and the petitioner remain , etc . [ p002869 ] Osteoporosis Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Julie Marson . ) I be grateful for the opportunity to raise once again the importance of osteoporosis provision and support . as many hon . member know , I have campaign on this issue for many year . today ' s debate be an important opportunity to highlight the deficiency in support for a health condition that affect so many woman and a large number of man in this country . historically , osteoporosis have be a condition shroud in mystery . I have chair the all - party parliamentary group on osteoporosis and bone health for some time now , along with Lord Black of Brentwood . today ' s debate coincide with our very first national medium campaign on osteoporosis , co - ordinated by the APPG and the Royal Osteoporosis Society — the Better Bones campaign . I encourage all hon . member to give their support to this important campaign . support for the Better Bones campaign have be staggering . it show the public , professional and political demand for change , because nearly 250 parliamentarian , 44 charity , seven royal medical college , business leader and trade union be collectively call on the Government to end the postcode lottery on access to crucial osteoporosis service in this country . the hon . Lady be make a critical speech on osteoporosis treatment and support , and on absolutely the right day as well , when her campaign go national . be she aware that one in three people over the age of 50 who break a hip die of that injury or related complication within a year ? that be a terrifying statistic . a large proportion of those fracture be osteoporotic , so do she agree that prevention and screening be key ? there be groundbreake work go on in Southend . the fracture clinic at Southend Hospital , which I have the pleasure of visit a couple of week ago , be to launch a new fracture liaison service next spring , with the support of Mid and South Essex Integrated Care Board . it will be the first FLS screening service in the UK to offer consistent screening support across a whole region . order . if the hon . Lady wish to make a speech , I think there may be time , but she be make an intervention . the hon . Lady raise some important point . I agree that screening and prevention be key to tackle osteoporosis , and I congratulate she and Southend on get their FLS up and run . it will make a real difference to the life of people in Southend . my hon . friend be do a fantastic job in this policy area . give only half of NHS trust have a fracture liaison service , do she agree that it be vital that that 50 % figure grow week in , week out , to ensure that everyone get get that service ? my hon . friend make a valuable intervention . he have be a staunch advocate for those suffer from osteoporosis and have back the Better Bones campaign , for which I be very grateful . I agree that this issue be all about ensure equity in access to NHS service , include FLS . I be lucky enough to represent a constituency with a fracture liaison service , which can identify 91 % of fragility fracture , but other constituency be not so lucky . do the hon . Lady agree that a modest transformation fund would make such a big difference ? I welcome that intervention and I absolutely agree . the whole tone of the campaign and my speech will address those very issue , because it be so important that we recognise that prevention be key to tackle osteoporosis . we can not prevent the condition unless we ensure first that people be diagnose . Osteoporosis receive too little attention , give the scale of number affect by the condition : half of all woman and one in five man over 50 . the hon . Lady make a point about statistic and the distribution of those who be affect . just last weekend , I be grateful to attend a training workshop at Sacred Heart church provide by a guy call Sherwin Criseno , who explain to man and woman over 50 the impact of this dreadful condition . do she think it be really important that man be well informed about the impact of the condition , so they prepare accordingly and perhaps change their lifestyle ? I thank the hon . gentleman for that important intervention . the condition predominantly affect woman , but it do affect man as well . small change to lifestyle , as well as detection and prevention , be very , very important . osteoporosis often develop during menopause , when a decrease in oestrogen can lead to a 20 % reduction in bone density . a loss of bone density affect people of all sex as they age , but woman lose more bone density more rapidly than man . I thank the hon . Lady for secure the debate . I refer to this point early in the debate on menopause , but my staff and I deal every day of the week with benefit issue relate to osteoporosis . it be clear that the understanding and capacity that maybe should be there in the health sector be not there . mindful that the Minister be not responsible for the Department for Work and Pensions , do she think that within the Department there should be a well understanding when assess those with osteoporosis to ensure they can gain the benefit in the system that the Government have set aside and have a well quality of life ? I thank the hon . gentleman for that important intervention . osteoporosis suffer from some mystery , and any light that we shine on the condition be welcome . it be entirely possible for someone with osteoporosis to work and have a very full life , give detection and treatment . fracture liaison service be integral to that . they be essential because throughout our life our bone continuously renew themselves in a process call bone turnover . with osteoporosis , bone turnover become out of balance . bone lose strength and become more fragile , bring an increase risk of fractured bone time and time again . the FLS can identify osteoporosis at the first fracture through method include DEXA scan , and offer treatment that can reduce the risk of further fracture . the FLS also systematically monitor patient after an osteoporosis diagnosis to ensure they get the good out of their treatment plan . with the FLS , patient who would otherwise face a fracture or multiple fracture can continue to lead healthy and fulfilling life . with osteoporosis designate as the fourth most consequential health condition when measure in term of disability and premature death , we have to question the Government ' s current record on assessment , treatment and prevention . there be a postcode lottery for access to these vital life enhance and lifesave service , with only 57 % of the eligible population in England currently have access to the FLS . what we desperately need be a central mandate require integrate care board to invest in establish FLS for everyone . let I stress not only the moral imperative of act on this issue , but the clear financial argument for establish 100 % fls coverage in England . one million acute hospital bed day in England alone be take up by hip fracture patient . research show that fls reduce the refracture risk by up to 40 % . apply that to the national picture , we find that a staggering 750 , 000 bed day would be free up over five year , save the NHS £ 665 million . this would have a significant and positive impact on the social care system . for every pound invest in FLS , the return be more than threefold . with the NHS in crisis , the Government must be bold and recognise the value of service such as FLS . the future of the NHS lie in prevention , but this argument extend beyond the NHS . every year , 670 , 000 people of work age suffer from fracture due to osteoporosis , and a third of those will leave the workplace permanently owe to the impact of chronic pain . we also know that every year 2 . 1 million sick day be take in England as a result of disability cause by fracture . any Government would surely understand how consequential this be for our economy . a new analysis provide for the Treasury show that universal access to FLS can prevent up to 750 , 000 sick day every year , and that be why trade union , the TUC , the Federation of Small Businesses and other business group have join the campaign to extend FLS access to everyone aged over 50 . it be clear that the Chancellor can not succeed in address labour shortage without take decisive action on FLS . to provide this vital support — to provide 100 % fls coverage in the UK — would cost an estimate £ 27 million per annum , which be less than 2 % of the UK ' s current expenditure on hip fracture . preventive osteoporosis treatment not only present a sound financial case for the NHS , but present a strong business case by ensure that so many woman can continue to work . improve osteoporosis treatment do not just mean that people can work for long ; it mean — perhaps much more important — that those live with osteoporosis can enjoy a high quality of life beyond their work . it be time to do away with the stigma because , with people in the UK live to an old age than ever before , 50 have become the new 40 . Osteoporosis be no long an old person ' s condition . we have allow it to become accept as a natural part of ageing , but it do not have to be . in this country , we have a choice : to diagnose and treat it , or to simply continue to ignore it . this be an opportunity to address old prejudice . Osteoporosis be one of many condition , mostly experience by woman , that have historically be sweep under the carpet . in the 19th century , during the period of its early identification , study crudely describe the condition in term of woman trip over " their long skirt " . even today , people refer to osteoporosis in crude and demean term such as " a dowager ' s hump " . raise awareness of this long - overlook condition be essential , and I be grateful for the opportunity provide by today ' s debate to far demystify osteoporosis as a health issue which affect so many people across this country . after century of inattention in the world of medicine , we now have revolutionary new technology and system such as DEXA scan and FLS . these service have the potential to transform the life of so many woman throughout the country — woman who have so much to offer , who should not be leave undiagnosed , but whose quality of life be leave literally to crumble along with their bone ; woman who be leave to suffer in pain when treatment can and should be make available . the decision to provide full FLS coverage be not only fiscally responsible and right , but it would be an historical leap forward in term of woman ' s healthcare . today , two third of those who need anti - osteoporosis medication be leave untreated . that be roughly 90 , 000 people , every year , miss out on necessary treatment due to Government inaction . this be life - change medicine . as many people die from osteoporosis - relate issue as die from lung cancer or diabete , so FLS and fracture prevention need to be part of the mandate NHS core contract . we must establish new guideline to support the establishment of FLS across England . in August , the Minister publicly state that the Government would make an announcement on establish more fracture liaison service by the end of this year . in September , the Minister in the other place say that the autumn statement would include " a package of prioritise measure to expand the provision of fracture liaison service and improve their current quality . " — [ Official Report , House of Lords , 14 September 2023 ; Vol . 832 , c . GC241 . ] I understand that , since then , there have be a walking back of this commitment . on behalf of the 90 , 000 people miss out on life - save , life - change medication , I yet again ask the Government to hold their nerve and act quickly . now be the time for this government to turn their back on outdated attitude towards osteoporosis , now be the time to protect woman whose quality of life would otherwise be leave to crumble along with their bone , and now be the time to commit to 100 % fls coverage across England . by ensure that every person in the UK have access to fracture liaison service , we have the power to make this vision of life - save early intervention and prevention a reality . I congratulate the hon . member for Bradford South ( Judith Cummins ) on secure this debate . she have make a brilliant speech on a critical topic . as she brilliantly point out , osteoporotic fracture can be prevent and screening be the first step . if we could stop these break in the first place , not only would we save life but we would save the NHS money and enable all our resident and constituent to live long , healthy life . as I say early , the statistic be truly terrifying . one in three people over the age of 50 who break a hip go on to die of that injury within a year . we be talk about save life . the hon . Lady rightly mention that FLS be the start of this . the first FLS to roll out a consistent screening and prevention process across an entire trust will launch at Southend Hospital next spring . it be estimate that the service will prevent 550 fracture in mid and south Essex , save the trust approach half a million pound and , critically , 1 , 300 bed space each year . if that be roll out across the entire country , we would be look at prevent 74 , 000 osteoporotic fracture , save three quarter of a million bed day and hundred of million of pound , to which the hon . Lady rightly refer . the hon . Lady be right that this be the future of the NHS — we should be aim at prevention — and that stop woman , in particular , suffer these osteoporotic fracture have to be do by roll out fls across the whole country . I hope the Minister will agree that other region should follow Southend ' s example . it be an exemplar and I thank he and the hon . Lady for give I this opportunity to speak . I commend the hon . member for Bradford South ( Judith Cummins ) for bring this issue to the House ' s attention . as chair of the all - party parliamentary group on osteoporosis and bone health , she have long be a champion for those with osteoporosis . she will know that many of the point raise today echo argument make in the other place only last month . as ever , she articulately and eloquently make a powerful and persuasive case , and I very much look forward to work with she and the charity that specialise in this area to improve service provision and support for those with osteoporosis . as the hon . Lady set out in her speech , osteoporosis represent a grow challenge in this country as our demographic shift , particularly for old people . it be estimate that in the UK more than 3 million people have osteoporosis , include approximately one in 10 woman age 60 and one in five woman age 70 , with more than 500 , 000 fragility fracture occur each year . as she rightly point out , this silent disease do not just affect old people . many people of work age suffer preventable fracture , with an estimate 2 . 6 million sick day take every year in the UK due to osteoporotic fracture . study suggest that over 22 % of the population age 50 to 64 will suffer a fracture . impassioned call have be make of late for increased Government support for FLS , both within Parliament , not least from the hon . Lady , and in the medium . I thank colleague across both Houses and the Sunday Express , which have lead on this issue , for help to raise the profile of these important service , which have long be recognise as good practice for secondary fracture prevention by both the Department of Health and Social Care and NHS England . indeed , in our " Major Conditions Strategy : a case for change and strategic framework " , publish this summer , we make it clear that we would continue to explore support the provision of FLS . as the hon . Lady will know — indeed , she raise this in her speech — fracture liaison service be locally commission . my hon . friend the Member for Southend West ( Anna Firth ) rightly point out , first in her intervention and then in her short speech , the importance of FLS . I thank she for draw attention to and champion the service in Southend , which be an exemplar that we hope other integrate care board will follow . for local system request support to review and improve their secondary fracture prevention pathway , NHS England be produce system - level data pack , which include datum from a variety of source . that include the FLS database to highlight where there may be unwarranted variation ; the impact of , and upon , exist health inequality , which we should always be concern about ; and where there be opportunity for transformation . the Royal Osteoporosis Society outline that , for every £ 1 spend on FLS in the UK , the taxpayer can expect to save £ 3 . 28 . so by level up provision to cover everyone over the age of 50 , we could prevent just under 5 , 700 fragility fracture every year . if that be the case , it be only right that NHS England continue to support icb to develop their secondary fracture prevention service . as the hon . Lady rightly point out , the benefit be clear and I trust that commissioner will be explore how good to support the need of their patient in this important area . the major condition strategy be not the only headline workstream that we be take forward to improve osteoporosis care . the first ever government - lead " woman ' s Health Strategy for England " be publish in July 2022 , mark a reset in the way in which the Government be look at woman ' s health . as part of that work , we be invest £ 25 million in woman ' s health hub , with each ICB set to receive £ 595 , 000 over the current and next financial year to establish a woman ' s health hub within their system . as we have outline in the woman ' s health hub core specification , specific service will vary depend on population health need , the exist set - up of service and the workforce skill in a local area . the core specification outline osteoporosis assessment and care . for example — the hon . Lady rightly allude to this — DEXA bone density scanning or fls be area that local system could consider when establish their hub . as important as FLS be , it be not the only way in which we can ensure that people with osteoporosis receive the care they need . NHS England ' s " get it right First Time " programme have a specific workstream on musculoskeletal health and be explore how good to support integrate care system in the diagnosis and treatment of osteoporosis . there be also , alongside that , a range of nice guideline to support equity of care for people with osteoporosis , which healthcare professional and commissioner should absolutely note . as we know , the economic burden of fragility fracture can be significant . that be why in this year ' s spring Budget we announce a package of measure to support individual at risk of , or experience , musculoskeletal condition to live and work well . those include : make good use of digital health technology to support people to well manage symptom and increase mobility ; design and scale up MSK community hub , expand access to community - base service deliver physical activity intervention ; and alongside that , integrate employment adviser into musculoskeletal pathway , build on the success of the NHS talk therapy programme . finally , I would like to highlight some of the exciting work that we be support on the future of osteoporosis care , and that be about research . valuable research into MSK condition such as osteoporosis be be fund by the Department of Health and Social Care , through the National Institute of Health and Care Research . NIHR have award £ 173 million for research into MSK condition in the last five year . that include study into understanding and improve patient experience of diagnosis for vertebral fracture , physiotherapy rehabilitation for osteoporotic vertebral fracture and other treatment for MSK condition . in addition , in 2021 - 22 alone over £ 30 million have be spend on NIHR infrastructure support study and , alongside that , trial into MSK condition , and six of the NIHR biomedical research centre have MSK condition as a research theme . NIHR , in collaboration with Versus Arthritis — I reference early some of the fantastic charity work in this space — also fund a dedicated UK musculoskeletal translational research collaboration , which align investment in MSK translational research and create a UK - wide ambition and alongside that a focus to drive cutting - edge research and improve outcome for patient . I do not for a second underestimate how painful and debilitate this silent disease be , but I be confident that real advance have be make . I know that we have far to go , but I be confident that , work together , such advance will continue to be make . this Government be commit to improve the provision of osteoporosis treatment and support . I once again extend my sincere thank to the hon . Lady for bring forward this really important debate , and I especially thank the individual , and indeed the charity and other organisation , who do so much to support people with osteoporosis . sitting suspend ( Order , 24 October . ) message to ATTEND the lords commissioner 1 . 23 pm message to attend the Lords Commissioners deliver by the Lady Usher of the Black Rod . the Speaker , with the House , go up to hear his Majesty ' s Commission ; on their return , the Speaker sit in the Clerk ' s place at the table . Royal Assent I have to acquaint the House that the House have be to the House of Peers where a Commission under the Great Seal be read , authorise the Royal Assent to the follow act : Online Safety Act 2023 Worker Protection ( Amendment of Equality Act 2010 ) Act 2023 Energy Act 2023 Non - Domestic Rating Act 2023 Procurement Act 2023 Levelling - up and Regeneration Act 2023 Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Act 2023 . his Majesty ' s Most gracious Speech I have far to acquaint the House that the Leader of the House of Lords , one of the Lords Commissioners , deliver his Majesty ' s Most Gracious Speech to both Houses of Parliament , in pursuance of his Majesty ' s Command . for great accuracy I have obtain a copy , and also direct that the term of the Speech be print in the Journal of this House . copy be be make available in the Vote Office . the speech be as follow : my Lords and Members of the House of Commons , my thought turn first to my beloved Mother , the late queen . I wish to thank you for the sympathy and support that have be extend to my family and myself from across both Houses of Parliament , the nation and beyond . my Mother set an example of selfless dedication and devotion to the United Kingdom and the wide Commonwealth during her long reign ; an example to which I re - dedicated my own life of public service at my Accession a little over a year ago . I remain deeply grateful for the expression of loyalty which be offer at that time . my Government have take action to bring down inflation , deliver well pay job and reduce the national debt burden on taxpayer . as household have face rise price in the aftermath of the pandemic and Russia ' s invasion of Ukraine , my Ministers have make energy price support available to every household and provide cost of live support to the most vulnerable in society . ECONOMY and TRADE Legislation be pass to drive forward growth and create a more open and dynamic economy . my Government bring forward legislation to enable a more sustainable and technologically advanced financial service sector , and introduce measure to encourage innovation , competition and productivity in digital market , while protect consumer . legislation inherit from the European Union can now be more easily amend so that regulation can be well tailor to the need of business . Unnecessary retain legislation will be revoke at the end of this year , and the public sector procurement regime have be simplify to provide new opportunity for small business and to safeguard national security . legislation be pass to deliver great resilience in the economy . law be pass to advance the transition to cheap , clean and more secure energy . measure have be bring forward to encourage agricultural and scientific innovation at home , unlock landmark innovation in food production to improve food security . my Government have implement free trade agreement with Australia and New Zealand . it also strengthen tie with some of the most dynamic economy in the world through reach agreement to accede to the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans - Pacific Partnership . law be pass to streamline inefficient import control to ensure that future trade be fast , simple and more sustainable . CRIME and justice / SMALL BOATS my Government have deliver legislation to tackle dangerous and illegal Channel crossing , and to break the business model of criminal gang . the Police have be empower to make street safe and protect the public from serious disruption cause by protester . new measure have be bring forward to ensure victim be well support as they engage with the criminal justice system . my Government take action to reduce economic crime , tackle illicit finance and help business grow . foreign POLICY and DEFENCE Legislation have ensure that the police and security service have the power they need to respond to new and evolve state threat to the United Kingdom , include from overseas investment in critical national infrastructure . this build on previous measure to ensure investment in critical national infrastructure and other sensitive part of the economy do not harm national security . my Government continue its steadfast military and humanitarian support of Ukraine in response to Russia ' s illegal invasion and have demonstrate the United Kingdom ' s continued commitment to the NATO alliance . my Ministers have make record investment in defence in support of our gallant Armed Forces and update the Integrated Review of Security , Defence , Development and Foreign Policy to reflect the new challenge pose by grow volatility on the global stage . new initiative have be launch to ensure that veteran be support as they transition out of the Armed Forces . the Queen and I be pleased to welcome his Excellency President Cyril Ramaphosa of South Africa last November . we be also delighted to visit Germany and France . DOMESTIC my Ministers have invest in public service and have set out a long - term workforce plan for the NHS in England . this will ensure that more doctor and nurse be train , respond to the healthcare challenge face by this generation and those to come . legislation be deliver to make it quick for those near the end of their life to get the support that they need . law be pass to protect freedom of speech and strengthen academic freedom in university . my Government take action to make online platform safe for child , whilst protect freedom of expression . my Ministers ensure that the public can access essential public service , keep people safe and reduce disruption . measure have be bring forward to enable minimum service level to be maintain in key area , include rail service , ambulance and border security . legislation be pass to fulfil the commitment to level up opportunity in all part of the country and empower local leader to deliver for the community they represent . my Government take action to ensure that those live in unsafe social housing will be well support by the regulator , deliver well - quality , safe home for those who need they . my Ministers have progress domestic reform to protect the economic and national security of the United Kingdom , strengthen tie across the Union and give great decision - make power to city . legislation have be pass to address the legacy of the trouble in Northern Ireland and provide well outcome for victim and survivor . my Government continue to work to encourage the restoration of power sharing in Northern Ireland and ensure public service continue to function . member of the House of Commons , I thank you for the provision which you have make for the work and dignity of the Crown and for the public service . my Lords and Members of the House of Commons , I pray that the blessing of Almighty God may rest upon your counsel . prorogation the Commission be also for prorogue this present Parliament , and the Leader of the House of Lords say : " my Lords and Members of the House of Commons , by virtue of his Majesty ' s Commission which have be now read , we do , in his Majesty ' s name , and in obeisance to his Majesty ' s Commands , prorogue this Parliament to Tuesday the seventh day of November , to be then here holden , and this Parliament be accordingly prorogue to Tuesday the seventh day of November . " end of the Third Session ( open on 10 May 2022 ) of the Fifty - Eighth Parliament of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland in the Second Year of the reign of his Majesty King Charles the Third .