Oral Answers to Questions Transport the Secretary of State be ask — support Economic Growth what step she be take to help ensure that the transport system support economic growth . what step she be take to help ensure that the transport system support economic growth . growth be this Government ' s no . 1 mission , and transport connectivity be key . we be get on with deliver this Government ' s plan for change by deliver the basic of a well transport system : cut journey time and improve connection . that mean improve the everyday journey that drive growth and improve life . I thank the Secretary of State for her response . can she update I on the conversation the Department have have with Gateshead council about the state of Gateshead flyover ? this 400 - tonne barrier to job run through the middle of our town be hold back business and growth , and stop we achieve our full potential . I recall meet my hon . friend just before Christmas , and I appreciate how critical the resolution of this issue be to his constituent and the wide area . my official , along with colleague from the North East combine authority , have be meet regularly with Gateshead council to build the case for the regeneration of the area , facilitate by the plan demolition of the flyover . I know that the Minister for Future of Roads visit Gateshead in January to see the issue for herself . Scotland ' s ferry network to the island be an essential transport system . island community have at time be effectively cut off due to ferry chaos , disruptive cancellation and expensive repair . the SNP have decide to inflict a 10 % fare hike and send a contract for seven new ferry to Poland . the Scottish Government be deprive Scotland ' s iconic shipbuilding industry of much - need growth and job . can the UK Government assist the Scottish Government with fundamental reform of how we procure and run ferry in our country ? as all of we know , Scotland have a world - renowne shipbuilding industry , so it sadden I that , under the SNP , Scotland ' s ferry be be build elsewhere . I be aware that scottish colleague want to see reform to how ferry be run and procure . in the meantime , I urge the Scottish Government to reconsider send vital job and investment abroad . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s comment on improve everyday transport for UK resident , and her comment on scottish ferry . do she agree that my constituency , on the Isle of Wight , should not be leave behind in the Government ' s transport plan ? will she agree to intervene and look at all option in order to regulate private equity — currently , we be entirely reliant on it for our connectivity with the UK mainland , which be harm our local economy — and to look at the potential of empower any future combine mayoral authority with some regulatory power over cross - solent transport ? I have a useful meeting with my hon . friend the Member for Isle of Wight West ( Mr Quigley ) about this issue a couple of week ago , and I be afraid he slightly beat the hon . gentleman to it in suggest that we should consider what power might be available through any future mayoral combine authority . let I assure the hon . Gentleman that we be speak to stakeholder across the island , include the ferry operator , to understand these issue in more depth and how we might make improvement go forward . that engagement will continue , and my hon . friend the Maritime Minister will have a meeting with all stakeholder in due course . regional growth be really important for the wide economy . there have be a huge focus on London airport — Heathrow , Gatwick and Luton — in recent week . what effort be the Transport Secretary make to address regional growth and regional airport investment ? I meet my counterpart in the Scottish Government regularly , and I will discuss this issue with she . the potential expansion of Heathrow be very important for regional connectivity to our other airport . with regard to scottish airport , if there be specific issue that the hon . Gentleman would like to bring to my attention , I would be very happy to have that conversation with he . public Transport : Newcastle - under - Lyme what assessment she have make of the adequacy of the provision of public transport in Newcastle - under - Lyme . transport that meet local , regional and national need be vital for deliver this Government ' s mission , and I be determined that community like those in Newcastle - under - Lyme will benefit . the Chancellor announce over £ 650 million for local transport outside city region at the autumn Budget , and the Secretary of State will confirm the allocation soon . a well - connect transport system be critical to the local economy , a healthy population and a sense of pride in our community . however , many of my Newcastle - under - Lyme constituent in Betley , Bradwell , Wolstanton , Audley and the rest of the village have make it clear that they can not access medical or retail service due to a lack of local bus provision , hurt our shop and the health and wellbeing of my constituent . will the Minister come to Newcastle - under - Lyme to meet I so that we can establish a path forward to get my constituent the bus service they need ? while I would always welcome the opportunity to meet my hon . friend , I urge he to lobby Staffordshire county council , which will get £ 11 . 1 million in bus funding in 2025 - 26 , consist of £ 5 . 8 million in revenue and £ 5 . 3 million in capital , specifically to support and improve bus service and infrastructure across Staffordshire , include in his constituency . aviation sector : support what step she be take to support the aviation sector . what step she be take to support the aviation sector . the Government have show that we will support the UK aviation sector by back airport expansion that promote economic growth while meet climate and environmental standard . we have invite proposal for a third runway at Heathrow , and introduce a package of measure to encourage the production and use of sustainable aviation fuel . aviation be a crucial part of the UK economy , with regional airport support job in community across the UK , but with many more opportunity ahead . will the Minister make representation in relation to the industrial strategy both to support the development of hydrogen fuel and to develop the associate infrastructure to make hydrogen - power aviation a reality ? my hon . friend be a great champion in this area . in addition to the sustainable aviation fuel I mention , we recognise the role that hydrogen can play in decarbonise aviation , because it literally produce zero emission at the tailpipe . we have invest £ 63 million in the advanced fuel fund , announce by the Chancellor , which will also be available for power - to - liquid sustainable aviation fuel project . I thank the Minister for his answer . as the Prime Minister point out yesterday , stansted airport be a huge employer and training provider for my constituency of Harlow . what work be the Department , alongside the Department for Work and Pensions , do with employer and training provider in the aviation sector ? I acknowledge that my hon . friend be a great champion for the airport near his constituency . we engage with airport to understand their plan . stansted have commit to create over 5 , 000 job from its £ 1 . 1 billion expansion , and it have establish an employment skill academy in the Aerozone to boost career and deliver STEM — science , technology , engineering and math — outreach . I encourage he to carry on engage as he have be do . I know that the Aviation Minister will understand the need for a major diversion field in the south - east of England . with that in mind and in the light of my question to the Prime Minister yesterday , will he welcome the potential reopening of Manston airport in Kent in October 2028 , and the huge investment and growth potential that will create ? the right hon . member , who raise this with I while I be in opposition and have now do so while I be in government , be a doughty champion for this campaign . Manston need to come forward with its plan , which will be subject to a development consent order , and we will then make a judgment about what be in our good interest . I thank the Minister very much for his answer . there be lot of training and employment opportunity for young people in career as cabin crew and pilot , or indeed in aerospace and engineering — for example , at Spirit AeroSystems in Belfast — so what can be do , work alongside the Education Minister , to ensure that those opportunity be make apparent in school to all the young people who will be the future of our country ? it give I great pleasure to wish the hon . member many happy return on his 70th birthday early this week . I think he be actually ask to be retrain in aviation skill . [ laughter . ] Northern Ireland be a great place for the aerospace industry with its three great airport — the two in Belfast and City of Derry / Londonderry — which give people a lot of skill . there be no limit to what people can achieve by get into this industry in Northern Ireland and travel the world over practise their skill . I call the shadow Minister . I add my birthday wish to the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) . significantly muddle message be be send to the aviation sector . on the one hand , the Climate Change Committee , upon whose altar the Government appear to worship , want flight to fall by 2030 , which be a massive blow to our aviation sector , while the Government equally say that they want growth and that they want to expand airport . who be go to win ? will Ministers stand up to the Climate Change Committee or be we just go to end up with big , emptier airport ? the Climate Change Committee advise ; we decide . we be not go to take any lecture on tough decision . I remember when the former Member for Uxbridge be Foreign Secretary in 2018 , he concoct a trip to Kabul to avoid a debate on expansion plan for Heathrow . we be get on with grow aviation in this country . if it be tough decision the Minister want , I invite he to look at what happen in the Budget of broken promise . air passenger duty go up significantly . for example , a couple fly to New York will pay £ 204 in tax . that be a 16 % increase . do the Minister not see that he need to stand up to the Treasury if he be go to stand up for the aviation sector ? otherwise he be do what socialist always do : tax growth out of existence . I enjoy the hon . member try to polarise the Chamber . he be sort of all right at it , but we be get on with decision around Luton , stanste , Heathrow and grow the aviation sector . yes , tax be an important element , but in the past two month we have see the big demand ever — even before the pandemic — in people want to fly . that be a testament to the work we be do in Government to get on with the decision that should have be take year ago . promote Active Travel what step she be take to promote active travel . what step she be take to promote active travel . the Government recognise the importance of promote active travel . we recently announce almost £ 300 million of active travel funding , enough for up to 300 mile of new footway and cycleway . we will say more very soon on the next step for the third cycling and walk investment strategy . increase active travel by 50 % in England would result in 1 . 8 million few gp visit and 4 million few sick day . I therefore welcome the Government ' s commitment , reiterate by the Minister , to build 300 mile of new cycle lane and walkway . will the Minister meet I and the Friends of Wharfedale Greenway to see how we can secure investment to open up this amazing active travel corridor in Wharfedale and boost the health of my constituent ? our investment in active travel will lead to few sick day and million more journey walk , wheel and cycle every year . More than £ 17 million have be allocate to West Yorkshire for active travel . I would be happy to meet my hon . friend . I will also ask Active Travel England to make contact with the Friends of Wharfedale Greenway about that specific scheme . early this week , I be delighted to welcome St Paul ' s Youth Forum from my constituency to Parliament . it do amazing work to provide opportunity to young people , no matter their background . one example of its work be the On Bikes scheme , which help young people stay active by offer repair and bike loan . will the Minister join I in celebrate the fantastic work of St Paul ' s Youth Forum , and will he consider visit to see its community work in action ? I be really pleased to hear about St Paul ' s . give young people cycle skill be so important , which be why we be invest £ 30 million a year in Bikeability cycle training in England . active travel be a devolved matter , but I be sure my counterpart in the Scottish Government will consider a visit . active travel in Eastbourne be be undermine by the poor quality of our road . we have pothole on Pacific Drive , Upperton Road , King ' s Drive and Milfoil Drive , and poor investment in pedestrian crossing . resident in the Hawthorns can not cross the road safely on Carew Road or the Avenue . will the Minister urge Conservative - run East Sussex county council to get a grip of our road and crossing , and properly invest hard - earn taxpayer ' money to address those transport challenge ? I will indeed join the hon . gentleman in call on the council to do just that . there have be a 40 % uplift in the funding to tackle our highway backlog and pothole . some of that money can be use on improve walkway and cycleway , which be part of the highway . woman cycle a lot less than man — 71 % of woman do not cycle , compare with 54 % of man . safety concern be the main barrier . that gender gap be not acceptable . what be the Government do to address that ? the hon . Lady raise a very important question , and I be passionate about this issue . she will be aware that the Government will be bring forward a new road safety strategy — the first one in over a decade . part of that will be look at how we can address that imbalance and the perception of and actual issue with safety on our highway . Road Safety : Gig Economy Couriers what step she be take to help improve road safety for gig economy courier use two - wheeled vehicle . this Government have announce a £ 500 million road maintenance funding uplift for next year , as well as £ 300 million for active travel scheme . that will improve road condition and safety for all road user , include delivery rider . two - wheeled courier work in the gig economy experience more road danger than average rider due to time pressure from employer . research from University College London show that gig economy rider be three time as likely to report damage to their vehicle and nearly twice as likely to report injury . what step be be take , include with employer of gig economy rider and other stake - holder , to protect gig economy rider and reduce danger for they and other road user and pedestrian ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise that important issue , which I know will be familiar to many member across the House . in December , the Minister for Local Transport write to the main food delivery company to remind they of the importance the Government place on the safety of food delivery rider and other road user and to remind they of their obligation . it be essential that delivery rider follow the highway code , despite the time pressure they be sometimes operate under . Local Bus Services what step she be take to improve local bus service . what step she be take to improve local bus service . improve local bus service be vital to kick - start economic growth . through our Bus Services ( no . 2 ) Bill and the £ 1 billion we be invest to support and improve bus service , we be take definitive action to help deliver the well , more reliable bus service that passenger deserve throughout the country . I be delighted to see the result of the recent Transport Focus survey , which show that passenger satisfaction have increase to 83 % . we can and will do more . I thank the Minister for his response . in Watford , private bus operator such as Arriva change bus route on a whim , usually provide less frequent service and sometimes withdraw they altogether . that leave Hertfordshire county council scramble to plug gap in service through expensive contract . do he agree that there must be a well way to run local bus that put passenger first and foremost ? it be vital that passenger have access to a stable and reliable bus network , and our Bus Services ( no . 2 ) Bill include a measure that offer great protection to service from be arbitrarily cancel or reduce . alongside our investment in bus , include £ 12 . 2 million for Hertfordshire , this Government be take action to help local leader improve their bus service . score of my constituent , include Carole , have tell I they oppose the removal of the no . 15 bus service in part of Calcot , which have mean they can not get to work , the supermarket , the GP or even the food bank . I be proud of our bus service in Reading , which be a shine example of a locally run service , and I be glad to see the Government commit to strengthen service far . do the Minister agree that local route need to serve all those who need they in every part of our community , and will he back my campaign to reinstate the no . 15 bus in Royal Avenue and Garston Crescent ? I agree with my hon . friend , and I encourage she to continue to speak with the operator to understand whether change can be make to the route to well meet her constituent ' need . our bus Bill , alongside the £ 2 . 4 million for Reading and the £ 1 . 6 million for West Berkshire , will give local leader the tool to deliver well bus service for passenger . local bus service be part of the integrate travel plan for my constituency , but my constituent also rely on Transport for London to commute into London . one frustration of my community be that concession fare be offer to London resident who live very close to the Hertfordshire border but not to my constituent . as accessibility to public transport remain one of my top priority , will the Minister push Transport for London to extend those concession to every TFL user regardless of their address ? that be a devolved matter , but I appreciate that TFL also subsidise many route outside that boundary . I be happy to pick up that matter with the hon . Gentleman outside the Chamber . in my constituency , bus service be a lifeline for resident of all age , young and old . I be shocked to hear at a recent meeting at Hereford sixth - form college that 21 student this year have have to stop their study because of problem with the reliability and cost of public transport . our old resident get free bus travel , but our young people do not . do the Minister agree that it be essential that every young person be enable to access education , employment and training ? will he meet I to discuss how the Department for Transport can work with the Department for Education to ensure that all young people can access those opportunity ? I thank the hon . Lady for her question . the English national concessionary travel scheme provide off - peak bus travel to those who be eligible , include those with disability and those of state pension age — currently 66 . however , local authority have the power to go above and beyond their statutory obligation . area include the hon . Lady ' s area will receive bus service improvement plan funding , which can be use for exactly that , but I be of course more than happy to meet she to discuss this far . passenger Rail Performance what step she be take to improve passenger rail performance . what step she be take to improve passenger rail performance . what recent assessment she have make of the adequacy of passenger rail performance . we be start to see train performance stabilise follow a decade of decline , and cancellation be no long rise . we have end the national industrial dispute , bring passenger confidence back with a 7 % increase in passenger journey . furthermore , we have make station - specific performance information available for the first time , as a visible sign that we be determined to improve standard . I thank the Secretary of State for her answer . in rural town , rail link be vital to keep our community connect , but many station , such as Shepley station in my constituency , have poor accessibility for disabled and elderly traveller . can she offer an update on the Department ' s plan to upgrade accessibility at Shepley station through the Access for all programme and through its consideration of the business case submit by Kirklees council to ensure that all resident can use it ? I can assure my hon . friend that accessibility be at the heart of our plan for rail reform . although I be not yet able to comment on next step for Access for all project at specific station , such as Shepley in her constituency , I assure she that we be committed to improve the accessibility of the railway . it will be a priority for great British Railways . the Croydon area remodelling scheme would upgrade East Croydon and Norwood Junction station in my constituency and improve service across the Brighton main line and most of the south - east . however , after the previous Government withdraw fund for this vital infrastructure project , passenger continue to suffer delay , and opportunity for growth across the south - east remain untapped . give the Government ' s mission for growth and increase demand for rail service to Gatwick airport , will the Secretary of State look again at the Croydon area remodelle scheme and meet I to discuss how invest in Croydon ' s transport infra - structure could unlock growth across the south - east ? I be sorry to say that the previous Government recklessly over - promise on rail infrastructure project , mislead passenger who have struggle for far too long to access the service that they deserve . in fact , I would go as far as say that Conservative Ministers travel around the country promise rail user the moon on a stick , pay for with fantasy money . I will gladly meet my hon . friend to discuss the Croydon area modelling scheme . the Secretary of State will know about the plan engineering work between Didcot Parkway and Swindon and in the Paddington area , which will cause significant disruption between London and Bristol and in south Wales this Sunday and next Sunday . disruption on major route cause massive chaos on the rural route that be access via Bristol and far to the south - west . then there be the closure of the m4 between Bath and Bristol , which mean that there will be no bus between Swindon and Bristol on those day . the alert about long and busy journey and train cancellation and delay advise we to travel the day before or the day after . that do not seem adequate . will the Secretary of State please pull the rail , bus and road body together to avoid clash such as this , particularly when we face six year of further disruption as a result of High Speed 2 work , which will not benefit the south - west in the slight ? the hon . Lady make a fair point . have readjust my own travel plan for this weekend , I feel her pain somewhat . this Government recognise that Sunday performance in particular , irrespective of plan engineering work , have not be good enough on great Western Railway , and we be work actively to address that . GWR be continue to make tactical intervention to improve the resilience of timetable , diagram and rostere . I will raise she wide point about join - up between mode with official in my Department . give that one in five train operate by Southern Rail arrive at Chichester station be late , and that there be no fast service connect Chichester to London , what step be be take directly to improve train punctuality and reliability for my constituent , especially consider that an annual ticket be nearly £ 8 , 000 ? the hon . Lady be right to demand excellent train service for her constituent , and that be what this Government be determined to deliver . we be work with the train operate company on plan to improve timetable and staff availability and rostering . I be happy to take away the specific issue that she have raise in relation to Chichester and provide she with more detail on the intervention plan on that line . I call the shadow Minister . we be tell that nationalisation be the answer to improve passenger rail performance . if that be the case , surely it would make sense to start by nationalise the bad perform operator . CrossCountry come last out of all train operate company for passenger satisfaction and it be not comply with its obligation . the Secretary of State could call in that contract , so why be it not the first operator to be nationalise under GBR ? we make a commitment to bring the train operating company back into public ownership without any cost to the taxpayer . the appropriate point at which to bring the train operating company back into public ownership be when the franchise expire . if there be terrible performance , we can seek to break a contract early . I be pleased that there be some improvement at CrossCountry . we be see improvement from the train operating company that have be bring into public ownership . in particular , for TransPennine and LNER there be a really positive story to tell on passenger journey and revenue growth . I thank the Secretary of State for that answer , but she duck the point that if she have the political will she could bring CrossCountry in - house now . it be not the first operator to come under GBR or even close to it . under current plan , the Government will not get around to tackle CrossCountry until 2031 . in the meantime , highly effective private operator with some of the high level of customer satisfaction such as c2c and Greater Anglia will be subject to dislocate nationalisation this year . why be the Government force nationalisation in area where current service be like , and sit on their hand where people be cry out for improvement ? I be not sure the hon . Gentleman listen to my previous answer . I say clearly that we be bring the train operating company into public ownership in a way that offer good value for money for the british taxpayer . the number of cancellation on CrossCountry have reduce markedly since the start of this year , and although we recognise that there be more to do , CrossCountry be on a good improvement trajectory . Railway Capacity what step she be take to increase capacity on the railway . we be committed to increase railway capacity . for instance , the delivery of HS2 phase 1 will more than double long - distance seat capacity between London and the west midland , and many project that will increase capacity be be fund through the rail network enhancement pipeline , particularly in the north and midland . I pay tribute to Brian Dunsby OBE , who be a pillar of the Harrogate business community . he tirelessly campaign to improve our railway , include get a direct service from London to Harrogate . one of the issue that we speak about before he sadly pass away be how the Leeds to York line via Harrogate become a single track at Knaresborough , which have implication for run high level of service and for delay , as once one service be delay , the entire day can quickly fall . I be launch a campaign for the dualling of the line between Knaresborough and York so that the railway serve our community be fit for purpose . will the Secretary of State join I in that ? will she offer any advice on how we can go about secure that investment ? may I express my condolence on the loss of the rail campaigner and constituent the hon . Member mention ? I be aware that Network Rail be look at both electrification scheme and potentially long platform scheme for station that serve his constituency , but I recognise that he be talk about dual tracking . may I suggest that he seek a meeting with the Rail Minister in the other place to discuss that in more detail ? my constituent in Uttoxeter have no train on a Sunday until 3 pm due to long - stand Network Rail staffing issue in signal box . with Uttoxeter ' s grow population , it be unacceptable that resident be leave without transport for much of the day on Sunday . I thank the Rail Minister for his engagement with I so far , but will the Secretary of State say more about how the Government be improve the reliability of train service ? I be clear that we must have a seven - day railway where train be as likely to turn up on a Sunday afternoon as they be on a Monday morning . we be work with train operating company across the country , include those that serve my hon . friend ' s constituent in Uttoxeter , and I be happy to provide more information to he in write about the specific action we be take in his constituency . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . in 2017 , South Western Railway order 90 new Arterio train to increase capacity on its rail network . they be mean to enter service in 2019 . however , six year later , only five be in service — presumably not count the empty one that sail by a teem and seething platform at Wimbledon this morning . with SWR set to be in Government hand in two month , what step will be take to ensure that those train be finally bring into service ? I know that the Rail Minister be seize of this issue . he have speak to I about it , and I understand that it relate to issue with lighting on platform , what can be see from the CCTV camera and the role of the guard . we be across the detail , and it be important that those issue be resolve before the train be bring into public ownership on 25 May . Swindon and Oxford Railway what step she be take to support the propose railway line between Swindon and Oxford . great Western Railway be currently operate a trial of direct Saturday service between Bristol Temple Meads and Oxford that call at Swindon . official be work with Great Western Railway to explore the feasibility of expand the current Saturday trial of service between Bristol and Oxford to other day of the week . over the past decade , we have see uncertainty in the rail sector . will the Minister please reassure I that she will be take decision differently , to focus on delivery , especially on link such as Swindon to Oxford ? my hon . friend will know of the ministerial team ' s commitment to Swindon . we be committed to deliver a unified and simplified rail system that focus on improve service for passenger and well value for taxpayer . we be actively explore the feasibility of the proposal that he describe . gloucestershire : Eastward Transport link what assessment she have make of the adequacy of eastward transport link from Gloucestershire . the Department be work with the rail industry to improve the performance of rail service in Gloucestershire , while Gloucestershire county council ' s scheme for the m5 junction 9 and A46 in Ashchurch be currently be consider as part of the Department ' s major road network and large local major programme . the Government recently announce a UK - silicon valley project link Oxfordshire , Milton Keynes and Cambridge . there be no mention of Gloucestershire , with its burgeon cyber - tech and engineering sector . from Gloucestershire , our primary arterial road eastward to Oxfordshire be the A40 and it be woefully inadequate as a single carriageway . will the Minister meet I to develop improve link eastward from Gloucestershire to the benefit of our neighbour in the east ? yes , of course . decarbonise Transport what step she be take to decarbonise the transport sector . our new maritime decarbonisation strategy , which launch this week , be the late demonstration of this Government ' s commitment to decarbonise transport . we be overhaul public transport service to make the sustainable choice the most convenient one , turbocharge the roll - out of electric vehicle and charge infrastructure , and make the UK a world leader in the production and use of sustainable aviation fuel . I be delighted that our Labour Mayor of South Yorkshire , Oliver Coppard , be bring local bus back under public control . do the Minister agree that take back control of our bus will allow we to deliver on a low - carbon future for local transport service ? what step be she take to increase the roll - out of zero emission bus nationwide ? I too welcome the step that Mayor Coppard be take to deliver well bus service for passenger in South Yorkshire . I know that the Minister for Local Transport be delighted to launch our new UK bus manufacturing expert panel in Sheffield early this month , which will help to ensure the UK remain a leader in bus manufacturing . expand the roll - out of zero emission bus be central to our effort to decarbonise the bus fleet and improve air quality . our Bus Services ( no . 2 ) Bill will accelerate that by require bus operator not to use new non - zero emission bus . what step be the Government take to address diesel island , which be section of track without electrification such as those between Reading and my constituency , to support the decarbonisation of the transport sector and encourage the transition to clean rail travel ? the Rail Minister in the other place be very much focused on how we decarbonise our rail sector . a combination of electrification and extended use of battery can allow we to do that . I be sure he will be happy to write to the hon . Lady about the specific of the case she raise . Bus Service accessibility : Kent what step she be take to improve the accessibility of bus service in Kent . improve access to local bus service throughout England be a priority for this Government . our reform through the Bus Services ( no . 2 ) Bill , combine with the £ 23 million we have allocate to Kent county council in 2025 - 26 , will empower local leader to deliver well bus service for passenger across Kent . conservative - run Kent county council recently confirm that £ 9 million of the £ 10 million grant provide by central Government to improve bus service will go solely to prop up exist service . that be despite the decline in access to bus service over the past 14 year in Kent , as key route have be abolish or restrict . my constituent in Broadmead have no weekend bus service into town , for example . do the Minister agree that that be a shocking indictment of the service that the Tories have preside over and that change in May at the local election be how we improve bus service for our constituent ? I could not agree more with my hon . and learn Friend . I be absolutely clear that too often local bus service be not deliver for passenger right across the country . that be why our ambitious reform to bus service , include through the bus Bill , will give local leader the power they desperately need to reform service to well meet the need of passenger , include in Kent . I be proud that our reform to bus funding allocation have mean additional fund for bus across the country , unlike under the Conservatives , who preside over 4 . 7 million few bus mile in Kent alone between 2010 and 2023 . community Buses : category B Licence Holders if she will make it her policy to allow holder of category b drive licence to drive community bus . I be sympathetic to the hon . member ' s concern , but to date there be not enough evidence to prove that the repeal of the legislation would not have an adverse impact on road safety . since 1997 , holder of car drive licence have not receive an automatic entitlement to drive minibus ; this be primarily to improve road safety . my constituency be fortunate to have both dawlish community transport and Newton Abbot community transport . they provide vital service for many people who would otherwise be isolate and lonely but , like many other volunteer group , they be find it hard to recruit . recruit driver for their minibus service be a particularly . anyone who take their driving test before 1997 automatically get a d1 minibus class licence , as I do . since then , young driver have have to take a new driving test ; the estimate associated training and cost be between £ 800 and £ 1 , 800 . will the Secretary of State work with I to add exception to d1 requirement to cover community transport and other volunteer community group ? unfortunately , up to 30 % of driver who take the d1 test fail . when we be consider change , it be important that safety be at the forefront of our thinking . support Electric Vehicle Usage what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to help support people to use electric vehicle . the Government be accelerate the roll - out of charge infrastructure : it be up 32 % in the 12 month to 1 March this year . we be engage with industry to improve consumer ’ experience , include with contactless payment and design standard . electric vehicle also receive favourable tax rate , with target grant support electric van , taxi and wheelchair - accessible vehicle . some 58 , 000 household in County Durham , include many in my constituency , be unable to charge their vehicle at home . what support be the Government give to innovative local scheme such as kerb charge so that we can make electric vehicle more accessible for all my constituent ? my hon . friend will be pleased to hear that charge point number increase by 45 % in rural area such as the one he represent , and that the North East combine authority receive almost £ 17 . 3 million from the local electric vehicle infrastructure fund , which mean more public charge point for his constituent . we be also support cross - pavement solution that provide safe charge option for those without driveway , as he describe . Electric Vehicle Charging Infrastructure what assessment her Department have make of the effectiveness of the roll - out of electric vehicle charge infrastructure . rise — [ interruption . ] it actually follow rather well , because — order . the Minister have to answer the question first . it be lovely that people be so keen . charge point availability be increase everywhere . as of 1 March , there be over 75 , 000 UK public charging device , with one add to the network every 29 minute , but we recognise that there be still regional disparity . the local EV infrastructure fund will deliver a further 100 , 000 charge point right across England . we new boy be still find our way , Mr Speaker . my part of the world , Yorkshire , have the low ev charging point per head of the whole country . the National Audit Office have point out that only 15 % of charge point be in rural area , compare with 44 % in London and the south - east . the net zero aim will collapse if we do not fix the equitable provision of ev charging point . what will the Government do to correct those problem ? the right hon . member be absolutely right to raise concern that although charge point availability be increase rapidly , there be regional disparity and difference between urban and rural area . the local EV infrastructure fund be design purposely to tackle some of that regional disparity . as I say , charge point in rural area have increase by 45 % in the last year . the East Riding of Yorkshire , which cover the right hon . member ' s constituency , have receive £ 2 . 7 million in LEVI funding ; I hope that that will deliver the improvement he seek for his constituent . will the Minister update we on the zero emission vehicle mandate consultation ? when can the sector expect an outcome ? I know that the global challenge face the automotive industry have be significant over the past couple of month . during the ZEV mandate consultation , my right hon . friend the Secretary of State and I meet 95 % of the vehicle manufacturer . we be currently consider carefully the representation that they and other have make . we will make a further announcement later in the spring . Maritime sector : support what step she be take to support the maritime sector . this week we publish our maritime decarbonisation strategy , set decarbonisation goal , along with policy and regulatory measure , to support the sector through the net zero transition . the strategy provide clarity to the sector and will unlock investment in clean maritime technology , ensure that the sector be prepare for a zero - emission future . the low Thames crossing announcement a couple of day ago be a disappointment to many of my constituent . will the Minister meet I to discuss how we can use a small proportion of the toll to support the maritime sector , particularly the Tilbury - Gravesend ferry , to reduce congestion and rat - run through the village ? I recently meet my hon . friend about her campaign to reinstate the local ferry . local ferry be a matter for the competent local transport authority , and I call on Kent county council to help she in that campaign to re - establish the ferry . I know that she be work with maritime partner , but I be happy to meet she . topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . I put on record my thank to all those involve in respond to the major incident that we have see unfold on land and at sea in recent week . the collision of vessel in the North sea and the fire at the electricity substation serve Heathrow have cause disruption and distress . I be pleased that recovery have be swift , and I be clear that no stone should be leave unturned either in identify the cause of the incident or in learn lesson for the future . I be pleased with the work take place across my Department to keep Britain move . on Monday , we announce what council need to do to unlock their full share of almost £ 1 . 6 billion of investment to repair our broken road . for the first time , we be ask every council in England to tell we how many pothole it have fix to unlock its allocation . as we strive to make our train more reliable , I welcome the end of the Avanti West Coast dispute . transport continue to drive the Government ' s plan for change , unlock job , growth and opportunity for all . last weekend in my constituency , our Shrewsbury Moves festival celebrate progress towards our 10 - year plan to implement more inclusive and integrated public transport across our beautiful medieval town . what additional transport be the Department make available to historic and economically thriving town such as Shrewsbury in order to combat congestion by enable more integrate public transport ? the Aviation Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Wythenshawe and Sale East ( Mike Kane ) , tell I that he be at Shrewsbury Moves on his wedding anniversary and have a very good time . the integrated national transport strategy will set the long - term vision for transport in England . different place face different challenge , so we want to enable local leader to deliver the right transport for community . that will always include good public transport , as well as scheme that balance the need of driver , cyclist and pedestrian on the road . I call the shadow Secretary of State . when the Government hand the ASLEF trade union an eye - water £ 9 billion pay agreement in the summer , they promise that it would " protect passenger from further national strike " . yet recently the Secretary of State say on national television that " there will be occasion on which strike will be necessary " . will she provide the House with an example of a necessary strike ? the hon . Gentleman will know that I have extensive experience from my time in London , where we do take strike when safety be at risk . that be one direct example that I can give he . the Secretary of State will be aware that in response to her Department ' s recent rail consultation , the trade union welcome her plan and say that a just transition to nationalisation would mean the levelling up of pay and condition for rail worker . the cost of that to the taxpayer could be considerable . would she consider a strike over harmonise pay and condition to be a necessary strike ? let we be clear : the cost of those national roll strike over two year be £ 850 million in lose revenue . I be sorry , but I be not go to take any lesson from the shadow Secretary of State on industrial relation on the railway . I have launch a petition in my constituency ask Warwickshire county council to take our bus back under public control . almost 30 % of bus do not run on time , and my constituent be sick and tired of be strand if they do not have a car . do the Minister agree that Warwickshire county council must do the right thing and improve the dismal service that my constituent be currently stick with ? we know that too often local bus service be late or , bad , do not turn up at all , block passenger from access vital service . our reform to the bus sector , combine with that £ 1 billion investment in bus , will give local leader the tool they need to ensure that service truly reflect the need of passenger . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . yesterday , the Chancellor speak about the importance of get individual back to work in order to grow our economy , but the uneven coverage , unreliability and inaccessibility of our transport network be key barrier that prevent many from do so . furthermore , the Chancellor maintain the decision she take in October to cut the Department for Transport ' s budget . do the Secretary of State believe that cut the transport budget be a good way of increase economic growth ? I know that the Chancellor and her colleague in the Treasury understand completely the importance of invest in our transport infrastructure to unlock the job , home and opportunity of the future . People in my constituency desperately need well and fast railway connection across our region and into the north - west of England to connect with job and opportunity . I thank the Secretary of State for her positive engagement with the Welsh Government and the Secretary of State for Wales on the topic of rail infrastructure in Wales . will she meet I and colleague from north Wales to specifically discuss the late on the north Wales main line ? I would be happy to meet my hon . friend . as I say in my letter to Ken Skates in January , we do " recognise that railway in Wales have see low level of enhancement spending in recent year , " and we will seek to address that . when the Roads Minister come to Norfolk recently , she be report to have cast doubt over the approval of the A10 West Winch housing access road , which be essential to unlock thousand of home and economic growth . without the road , the home will not be build . give the Government ' s commitment to house building , will the Transport Secretary reaffirm her support for this long - stand road scheme ? I be pleased to find myself in Norfolk announce huge amount of investment in the region ' s road . there be a large number of scheme await the outcome of the spending review , but I would be happy to write to the hon . Gentleman about the specific scheme that he raise . electric bike be very popular in my constituency . however , they travel at high speed — with a maximum speed limit of 15 . 5 mph — and be heavy , which be cause quite a lot of distress to many resident . they can be speed - limited , and often be in our park . have the Secretary of State consider a low speed limit for e - bike for safety reason ? e - cycle must comply with the exist regulation , which state that " electrical assistance must cut off when the vehicle reach 15 . 5 mph " . the police already have the power to seize e - cycle and electric motorbike be use illegally and to fine individual who fail to stop when instruct to do so . the Secretary of State will recognise that it be very difficult for private landowner and local authority along the line of High Speed 2 to plan future development when they do not know what will happen to land that be necessary for construction but be not need for the long - term operation of the line . a land disposal strategy for HS2 be overdue . can she produce one urgently ? when she do so , will she seek opportunity to benefit community like those I represent , which be suffer the disruption of the line but will not benefit from its operation ? this be a matter that I be seek to expedite , as I recognise the uncertainty it cause for landowner and community along the line . I will take the right hon . and learn Gentleman ' s wide point into consideration . East Midlands Railway have a new fleet of train that will be on the track this year — a £ 400 million investment . these train can be power by electrified track , but can revert to diesel when travel on the part of the midland main line that be not yet electrify . as electrification mean clean air , less diesel and quieter and fast train , do the Secretary of State agree that the more of the track that can be electrify , the well it will be for passenger , community and the environment ? I do agree that Government investment in new bi - mode train and electrification on east midland railway will result in low energy cost , a reduction in noise emission and a significant improvement to the railway . as the Secretary of State will be aware , the Government move the money earmark for Aldridge train station on the whim of the Labour Mayor , sadly make Aldridge resident feel that they be no long care about . as the Government say that they be minded to grant open access from Wrexham to Euston , will they work with I to demonstrate to the people of Aldridge that they do actually care by work to deliver a train station by 2027 , as plan and budget for by the Conservatives ? I find it rather strange that every month I come to the Dispatch Box and answer the same question from the right hon . Lady , give that she be Rail Minister for a number of year . I be very happy to discuss the importance of Aldridge station with the Mayor of the West Midlands and to update the right hon . Lady far . I call the Chair of the Transport Committee . yesterday , the all - party parliamentary group on cycling and walking publish its report on social justice as it impact on vulnerable road user . injury to pedestrian could be cut significantly with simple side road zebra crossing without Belisha beacon . that would align with the 2022 highway code change . such crossing be common across the world , and they be be trialle around the corner from this building at the Department for Transport . will the Government consider amend the guidance for highway authority so that these crossing can be roll out across the country ? the Government agree that everyone should have the opportunity to walk or cycle , whatever their background , and we will obviously study the content of the report in detail , which correctly highlight some of the way in which cycle to work scheme , for example , might be reform . the Government agree that adapt cycle , which be include in the report , also play an important role in provide freedom and independence . the root cause of the pothole problem be council ' inability to afford to resurface road . Wokingham borough council see no uplift in resurface funding for many year , with no account take of inflation or new road . this be a legacy of the conservative party in government , lead to maintenance funding per mile effectively be halve . will the Minister meet I to discuss the urgent need for fund for resurfacing of new road ? I be afraid that the hon . Gentleman ' s local council have suffer the same fate as council across the country as a result of the under - investment in local road maintenance under the previous Government , but they will now have benefit from their share of our £ 500 million uplift for the year ahead , and they be absolutely encouraged to use that to resurface the road and fix pothole . I thank the Minister for her answer on the work the Government be do with business to support people deal with the consequence of the gig economy and road safety . will she join with I in my work to ensure that the area around Baker Street be safe for resident , and will she work with I and resident around Baker Street to make the case to gig economy business that we need to do more on enforcement and on the regulation of these worker ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to raise concern . obviously , enforcement of the rule on use cycle and e - cycle be a matter for the police , but I would be very happy to meet she to discuss the issue . this week the Government have give a commitment to provide extra ev charge unit right across this United Kingdom , so may I ask the Minister a very helpful question ? what discussion have she have with the Northern Ireland Assembly in relation to expand ev charge infrastructure in the devolved nation ? how can we help Northern Ireland , Scotland and Wales to catch up ? as a departmental team , we have regular meeting with our colleague across the devolved government , include on issue of how to extend ev charging , and I would be very happy to pick that up with the hon . Gentleman far . my constituency have a very successful passenger branch line , but there also use to be a freight line . there be a tiny piece of track that , quite inexpensively , could be reopen to carry tin and lithium out through the dock . will the Minister meet I to discuss the possibility of do that ? this Government be commit to move more freight from road to rail , which be the right thing to do for our environment and our economy . I would be happy to have that meeting with my hon . friend . Derby station have recently be reveal as the seventh bad for delay in the UK . when people can not get to work on time , it be not just a pain for they ; it also impact productivity and hold back our local economy . will the Secretary of State outline the step she be take to tackle delay train in Derby and the east midland , so that the transport system support economic growth rather than hold it back ? we be work closely with East Midlands Railway and CrossCountry to resolve cancellation and delay , whether relate to train fleet , staffing or infrastructure matter . the reduction in funding for our waterway by 5 % year on year from 2027 will have a detrimental impact on the operation of the Dudley Canal and Caverns Trust . will my right hon . friend commit to a review of the funding of our waterway and reinstate that support ? I be happy to look into that issue for my hon . friend and provide she with a write update . I recently meet the manage director of Morebus again to call for new service to Hengistbury Head , reinstate service to throop and well service , such as an improve 33 route and route to the Royal Bournemouth hospital and the airport . do the Minister agree that well bus be good for our community and our economy , and that there be a lot of growth to unlock in Bournemouth and the south - west with well bus ? my hon . friend be a fierce advocate for good public transport in his constituency and I absolutely agree with the sentiment of what he say . Project Willow report back last week . among the option be a hydrogenate ester and fatty acids plant produce sustainable aviation fuel and renewable diesel , and the report recommend a delay in the implementation of the HEFA cap . be the Department currently consider that action ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for his commitment to Project Willow at Grangemouth . we introduce a 2 % mandate from 1 January , so 2 % of all aviation fuel have to come from sustainable source . we will be legislate on the revenue certainty mechanism and look at how we can contribute to the future of that great site . PIP Changes : impact on Carer ' s Allowance ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions if she will make a statement on the change to personal independence payment and how that will impact those who receive carer ' s allowance . the " pathway to work " Green Paper set out our plan to fix a broken system , provide proper employment support for those who can work , and a strong and sustainable safety net for everybody who need it . we will change personal independence payment to focus support on those in the great need . that change will be in primary legislation , with a full debate and scrutiny in Parliament . the cost of personal independence payment have increase by £ 2 billion above inflation in each of the past five year , and those increase be carry on . that be simply not sustainable . in the Green Paper , we be consult on how good to support those affect by the change to eligibility , for example with transitional protection for those no long eligible for PIP and for the entitlement link to it , include carer ' s allowance , as reference in the hon . member ' s urgent question , and the universal credit carer element , which be an increasingly important part of the picture . the PIP change will be implement from November next year . they will apply to new claimant and to people at their award review after that date , and those with severe condition who will never work will be protect . I pay tribute to the million of unpaid carer across the country . we recognise and value their vital contribution , provide care and continuity of support , include to many people with disability . the 2021 census indicate that approximately 5 million people in England and Wales be do some unpaid care . as the hon . member know , we be deliver the big ever cash increase in the earning threshold for carer ' s allowance , increase it by £ 45 a week to £ 196 , benefit more than 60 , 000 carer by 2029 - 30 . our reform will build a system that be fair and more sustainable so that it will always be there for those with the great need to live with the dignity and support that they be entitle to . yesterday see the big cut to carer ' s allowance for decade . although we need to manage down appropriately the benefit budget , that need to be do in a way that be care , compassionate and far from rush , which be what we see yesterday . we be look at approximately 150 , 000 carer lose allowance under these proposal . half a billion pound will be take away from those who care . the Joseph Rowntree Foundation suggest that some couple will lose £ 12 , 000 a year , when PIP cut and carer ' s allowance cut be take into account . while I welcome the apology that the Chief Secretary to the Treasury give yesterday in relation to his reference to pocket money , will the Minister agree that it be inappropriate to compare cut to PIP with cut to pocket money ? I very much agree that this all need to be do in a managed and compassionate way , which be exactly what we be do , so I do not agree that it be be rush . as I have say , the change will not happen for more than 18 month — they will not take effect until November 2026 . they will not affect current recipient of personal independence payment until their first award review after November 2026 , and review period be typically three year , so this be definitely not be rush . it will happen in a properly plan , stage and careful way . the hon . Gentleman refer to couple lose £ 12 , 000 . I think he must be refer to instance of people who receive personal independence payment and also receive carer ' s allowance for care for their spouse — he be right that there be some instance of that . there be couple for whom that happen both way . the transitional arrangement we be consult on , which be refer to in the Green Paper , need to take account of that incidence , but it be absolutely the right thing to do , to ensure that personal independence payment continue in the long term as part of a sustainable benefit system . we do have to make some reduction , as I think the hon . Gentleman acknowledge . if he have another idea on how that can be do , I be interested to know what it be . by concentrate on those whose impairment be the most severe , which the propose change will do , we will be able to ensure that the benefit be there for the long term and that it be sustainable . do my right hon . friend agree that in order to safeguard the future of the welfare system , we must ensure that it be sustainable ? my hon . friend be absolutely right ; we have to do that . five year ago , we be spend £ 12 billion on personal independence payment , and this year , in current price , we will spend £ 22 billion . the Government have to address that , precisely as he say , in order to ensure that this crucial safety net be there for the long term . we will not be mean - test it , freeze it or convert it into voucher , as the Conservative party suggest ; we want it to be a cash benefit that can meet the need of those who depend on it . I call the shadow Minister . I congratulate the hon . member for Torbay ( Steve Darling ) on bring this important matter before the House . in government , my party support carer : we increase carer ' s allowance by £ 1 , 500 and , with the support of the Liberal Democrats , introduce carer ' s leave . we be unite again today in dismay at what this Government be do . the Government have 14 year to prepare their welfare reform . we have nothing for eight month , and then everything in a rush , because the Chancellor crash the economy . with growth this year cut in half , inflation rise far , unemployment up , productivity down , debt interest soar , a record tax burden and 200 , 000 people be push into absolute poverty by the measure take by this government , they have have an emergency Budget contain cut to benefit for disabled people . perhaps if they be not in such a rush , they would have realise that these crude reform also impact carer . some 150 , 000 people who give up income to look after a love one , and who rely on carer ' s allowance to make end meet , be now go to lose it . the Government be balance the book on the back of the people least able to take the weight . that be labour : make other people pay for the fiasco of their Budget . first they come for the farmer , then for the pensioner , and now it be the carer — the most important people in our society , do the most important job a human being can do , not for the money but for the love . the least the Government can do be to give they our support . that be what we do in government , so why will they not ? can the Minister confirm whether carer ' s allowance be a deliberate target of the Government ' s reform , or do they not realise the impact of what they be do to PIP because of the rush they be in ? do they think that take £ 500 million from carer while give above - inflation pay award to the trade union be the right priority , and do the Minister share the Chief Secretary to the Treasury ' s view that cut support for carer and disabled people be like take pocket money from child ? be that what he believe car ' s allowance be — pocket money ? I suppose the hon . Gentleman have no choice but to attempt to defend his party ' s record in government . as I have refer to already , the conservative party ' s plan be to convert PIP into voucher — that really frighten people who be dependent on that system — and they also want to make some big cut to the work capability assessment , which be rule out by the court as unlawful . we announce in the Green Paper that we be go to abandon those cut . for example , the Conservatives be propose to remove the mobility descriptor from the work capability assessment on the ground that people can now work from home , but it be clearly ludicrous to claim that a mobility impairment do not affect a person ' s ability to work . I remind the hon . Gentleman that in respond to the Green Paper on behalf of the Opposition , his hon . friend the Member for Faversham and Mid Kent ( Helen Whately ) demand further cut , so the outrage he have express be a bit inappropriate . we have a proper plan , set out in the Green Paper . it have be well think through — as the hon . Gentleman will find if he read it properly — include a reference to unpaid carer on its very last page . we be well aware of the impact it will have , which be why we be consult on the transitional arrangement . I thank my right hon . friend for come before the House and calmly lay out some of the fact on this matter , as I would expect from he , give his experience . however , there have be a lot of fear out there , and confusion among mps , adviser and — most worryingly — people who be in receipt of PIP and other benefit and be affect by these change . do my right hon . friend agree that clear communication at all time about this matter be very important , and that every Minister should be very careful about clumsy and inappropriate language , because of the impact it have on the people who be most affected ? my hon . friend be absolutely right about the sensitivity of this issue . I particularly regret the anxiety that have be cause by press speculation over the past several week — that have certainly be regrettable . from my postbag , the thing that particularly frighten people be the point I have already refer to , which be the previous Government ' s proposal to switch PIP from a cash benefit to voucher . that cause a great deal of concern , but my hon . friend be right : we now need to be absolutely clear in our communication about these matter . I think the Green Paper be clear . the accessible version of the Green Paper will all be publish by the beginning of next month , and we will then have a 12 - week consultation period . as a result of those version , include the easy - read version , be available , I hope that everybody will be able to see clearly what be propose and will be able to respond to the consultation with their view . the analogy of the Chief Secretary to the Treasury have prove to be controversial , but the Minister agree with the point he be make , do he not ? I do not hear what my right hon . Friend say . what I can say be that a very large number of people be dependent on the personal independence payment . we want it to be a sustainable benefit that will be there for the long term . because of the change we be make , which will reduce the future increase in spending on personal independence payment , we can be confident and recipient can be confident that that will be the case . I be potentially one of the few member of this House who have be a recipient of the high rate of living allowance . I be a recipient of the high rate of mobility allowance , and I rely on a Motability car for many year , too . on the flipside , I remember , after my second hip replacement in my early 30 , have to try to navigate the access to work scheme , which be pretty impossible . in fact , it lock people out of work , rather than let they in . there be many good thing in the Green Paper that have be bring forward that address some of those point . when I think back to what I have to go through from age 13 to 17 , I be also pleased that those benefit will be protect for people in that situation . PIP be also what we call a passporting benefit . such thing as access to the blue badge scheme and carer ' s allowance be often dependent on PIP , so one potential implication be that people could be lock out . will the Minister consider carry these thing forward and meet I to discuss access to the blue badge scheme and carer ' s allowance for people who might lose PIP , but would still be entitle to those benefit ? I very much welcome my hon . friend ' s testimony to the value of the support that the system provide and the importance of maintain that into the future . he be right about passporte benefit . the availability of blue badge be not affect by anything in the Green Paper , because the mobility component of personal independence payment be not change by any of the proposal we have make . access to carer ' s allowance , as we have say , certainly will be , and I would welcome a discussion with he about that . I declare an interest as an honorary vice - president of Carers UK , and I sit on the board of the Fife Carers Centre . last September , I have the Adjournment debate on support for unpaid carer . in that , the Minister for Care , the hon . member for Aberafan Maesteg ( Stephen Kinnock ) , promise that we would " forge ahead together with the promise of that future in which unpaid carer be visible , value and support . " — [ Official Report , 3 September 2024 ; Vol . 753 , c . 288 . ] that be not how unpaid carer be feel today . the Minister refer to how the earning limit for carer ' s allowance have increase , but there be still a cliff edge . be the Government planning to bring forward plan to link the earning limit to the 16 hour of employment at the national minimum wage ? we know that those be some of the thing that cause the overpayment for carer ' s allowance in the first place . yes , the earning threshold will in future be set at 16 time the hourly rate of the national living wage , and that will continue indefinitely . in addition , the Chancellor announce in the Budget last year that we will look at the idea of an income taper in carer ' s allowance to replace the cliff edge , which , as the hon . Member rightly say , be a feature of it at the moment . we be look at that assessment . I thank my right hon . friend for how he be respond to this urgent question . the Conservatives , after 14 year in government , break our social security system and create a hostile environment for disabled people , and therefore it be for we — labour in government — to fix our social security system . I would like to press my right hon . friend on this : 30 % of disabled people already live in poverty , and the propose change to personal independence payment could see more be push far into poverty and many be push out of work . indeed , the Government ' s impact assessment highlight that 150 , 000 people could lose carer ' s allowance or the carer ' s element . may I press he again to think about how we ensure that we support ill and disabled people as we fix the mess that the Tories have create ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to say that we be leave with a broken system . may I pay tribute to she for her work on the all - party parliamentary group on eye health and visual impairment , which focus on support people into employment ? that be the crucial element of this package . we will invest substantial sum , rise to £ 1 billion a year by the end of the Parliament , in support people who be out of work on health and disability ground into work , and I very much look forward to work with she in that endeavour . when somebody who be out of work move into a job , the likelihood of their be below the poverty line be halve , so there will be a very positive poverty impact from that commitment . I have already be contact by carer in my constituency who be scared about what will happen to they and the people they care for . I welcome the Minister ' s explanation thus far , but there will clearly be a problem with encourage people who care for other to go out to work , who will say , " who ' s go to care for the person I care for now ? " what message do the Minister have for those who look after very vulnerable people and can not leave they alone , and who can not work ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for make that point . give his description of the people be care for , they will continue to receive personal independence payment . once the change have take effect from November next year , those who do not score at least four point on any of the 10 daily living activity that the benefit condition set out will not be eligible for personal independence payment . I would need to look at the particular case that the hon . Gentleman have in mind , but I imagine that people who can not be leave alone at home will continue to score at least four point . therefore , the carer ' s allowance for their carer will continue as at present . I have the high respect for my right hon . friend , but I be afraid he be not right on this policy . as a former physiotherapist , I know that many people will not be able to claim carer ' s allowance . now that we have have the impact assessment , we have see that nearly 400 , 000 disabled people will be push far into poverty , include 50 , 000 child , and that 150 , 000 carer will lose the lifeline of carer ' s allowance . we do not have a social care system to replace it ; besides , social care be more expensive . today , I want to speak truth to power . sometimes government get thing wrong , and I ask the Government to seriously reflect on these policy . the first half of pathway to Work be good , but the second half will let a lot of people down . please reflect , and please withdraw this policy . I be grateful to my hon . friend , but we will not withdraw the policy . we will certainly reflect on it , and we will consult properly on the content of the Green Paper . the figure publish by the Office for Budget Responsibility yesterday show that the benefit change , on their own , will take 250 , 000 people , include 200 , 000 adult , below the poverty line , but that be before any consideration of the impact of the big commitment that we be make to employment support — up to £ 1 billion a year by the end of the Parliament . that will clearly have a very positive effect in reduce poverty . the Office for Budget Responsibility will look at all of this over the summer and then update its figure in the autumn . we will see what it conclude , but I think the balance of this package will be very positive for reduce poverty in the UK . to help family , the last Government put in place the household support fund , which this Government have continue . however , it be due to run out in 2026 , when the Minister ' s change be come in . what hope be there for household who need emergency support if the household support fund will be drop when his change come in ? we have retain the household support fund , as the hon . Member rightly point out , and the future arrangement will be set out in due course . however , I can reassure he of the absolute commitment of this Government to support family who need our support . the child poverty taskforce be work on this issue at the moment , and will bring forward a strategy to address the problem of child poverty . the figure publish this morning on household below average income show just what a huge challenge there be , give the very high level of child poverty leave by the previous Government . we will be address that . I thank the Minister for pay tribute to carer for the economic and social contribution they make , and for the big ever increase in the employment earning threshold for carer . there be a lot of worry about the change , so could the Minister confirm that nobody on PIP will be impact by they until November 2026 at the early ? in the meantime , I will be work with disabled group in my constituency to understand the impact on individual , and the impact of the investment on support disabled people into work . the Minister speak about transitional arrangement . how can I ensure that the view of disabled people in Newcastle upon Tyne Central and West feed into decision about the implementation of these change ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to underline again the hugely important contribution , not least economic contribution , make by carer . the consultation be under way , and it will run for a full 12 week from the time when all the accessible version of the Green Papers be publish , which will be in early April . I would be very grateful if she encourage the organisation that she be work with to respond to that consultation , and I would also be very interested to hear and see her response to it . we will take those contribution extremely seriously as we finalise the detail of these proposal . before I put my question to the Minister , I be sure that the House will want to join I in offer condolence to Keith Brown , our deputy party leader , on the death of his wife Christina McKelvie , who be a very distinguished and long - serve Member of the Scottish Parliament and a Minister . the impact assessment sneak out yesterday under cover of the spring statement confirm what the SNP have be warn about for some time . labour ' s austerity cut will have a devastating effect , with the poor and most vulnerable in society force to foot the bill for the Chancellor ' s incompetence . some 150 , 000 people will be affect by the change to carer ' s allowance , but also — at an absolute minimum — 250 , 000 people , include 50 , 000 child , will be force into poverty . these be very modest assessment ; I hear the hon . member for York Central ( Rachael Maskell ) give a figure of 400 , 000 people . Labour promise that it would improve living standard , but with the full extent of the damage now spell out , do Labour ' s promise not lie in tatter ? what will it take for the Government to change course before irreversible harm be do ? I echo the hon . Gentleman ' s condolence . the figure be certainly not snuck out yesterday ; I do not think anyone can accuse the Office for Budget Responsibility of sneak they out . they be publish on the day of the spring statement , as they always be and always have to be . let I make it clear that spend on the personal independence payment will continue to increase above inflation . it will not increase as fast as it would have do if we have do nothing , but the advantage be that the funding for that benefit will be sustainable , and that be vital because so many people depend on it . it be not go to be mean - test and it be not go to be freeze . it will be there for the long term . there be real fear among many of my Calder Valley constituent with disability and with caring responsibility about the propose change to PIP , and that fear have be exacerbate by some of the reporting . can the Minister please give I a categorical assurance that the consultation on these measure be genuine , and that the Government will ensure that the response of disabled people and of disability right campaign such as Scope will be give the weight they deserve ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to raise those point . I can give he the assurance that he seek . indeed , I speak to Scope yesterday , and to other disability charity . yes , this will be a proper consultation , and we will listen very carefully to what people say to we in response . terminal illness devastate people ' s finance . More than 100 terminally ill people every month be refuse PIP , and every day 300 people die in poverty , have fall through the crack of our benefit system . many family carer in the midst of bereavement be then leave with nothing . the Government ' s plan in the Green Paper say nothing about how the terminally ill or their carer will be affect by these cut . can the Minister guarantee today that they will not be plunge into deep poverty ? I be grateful to the hon . member for raise that point , but the Green Paper be very clear about the protection provide for people who be terminally ill . there be special rule in place , and they will absolutely be maintain . she can be very much reassure about what the Green Paper say about that group . if there be a point that I have miss that she have spot , I would be grateful to hear about it , but we have very robust protection for those people for exactly the reason she set out . I grow up care for two disabled parent . as I say in my maiden speech , I would not be here if it be not for the sacrifice they make when they have so little in the first place . I have see both my mother and my father force out of work by their poor health . I have see their mental health suffer , because they could not get a foot in the door of the NHS . I have see the consequence in our family home ; they suffer significant bout of depression . I know the dignity and importance of work to people who want to and can work . when my parent ' health get bad , they could not work , so I know the importance of protection for people like they . I be pleased that the Government be emphasise both part of the issue . will the Minister please assure my constituent , who be concerned because of the leak , into which an official inquiry be under way , that the Government be truly listen to our constituent ? will he give the assurance that , through the pathway to work consultation , the Government want to hear from disability group in my constituency , include the Cambian Wing college , whose representative I meet on Monday , and other organisation ? will he also reassure the public that the Government be commit to close the disability employability gap ? we need employer to support people into work , too . I understand that this be a very important urgent question — that be why it be grant — but I need to try to get everybody in ; that be what I be bother about . if we can speed up question and answer , that would help we all . I be grateful to my hon . friend for bring his experience to this debate . I can absolutely give he the reassurance he seek . early in the week , I write to the Secretary of State , ask she to confirm that the plan would not go ahead if the proposal be assess as be harmful to disabled people . the equality analysis say that the family who will lose out be estimate to represent 20 % of all family who report have someone with a disability in the household . give that PIP be not relate to work , and that the money can not be make up through work change , do the Minister agree that proceeding be not acceptable when there be this level of harm ? the assessment publish yesterday be that 90 % of those receive the daily live PIP component will continue to receive that benefit after the change take effect , so I think the concern that the hon . Lady raise be not entirely appropriate . like thousand of other , I carry out my caring responsibility this morning before I come to this place . I have first - hand experience of worry about pay the bill every month due to caring responsibility — something I no long have to worry about . will the Minister consider whether we need a plan across Government Departments to identify the support available to ensure that carer can work , and that they and their loved one do not fall into poverty as a result of the announcement make ? I be work with the Minister for Care in the Department of Health and Social Care on this . I agree with my hon . friend that we need to work across Government on these issue . we need to be concern about the effect on young carer in the education system , so the Department for Education need to be involve as well . his point about cross - Government work be absolutely right . almost a third of all unpaid carer in Wales live in poverty . that be over 100 , 000 people care for the sick , the elderly and the disabled . the Labour First Minister in Wales , Eluned Morgan , have already ask for a Wales - specific impact assessment of welfare cut . she have not even have the courtesy of a reply . can the Minister tell I how many more unpaid carer in Wales will be push into hardship due to lose their entitlement to carer ' s allowance ? as the hon . Lady will have gather , the impact assessment be publish yesterday . the figure be there for everybody to see , and the impact be across the UK ; that be correct . I want the support that we provide to be sustainable in the long term for those who depend on it . that will be the impact of our change to the personal independence payment . I also want well support for carer who want to combine work with caring . that be not always easy for people to do . we make a commitment to provide up to £ 1 billion in well employment support by the end of this Parliament . if we can use that to support carer as well as people who be sick and disabled , we could see a significant reduction in the number of people live in poverty . like many member , I have have email from constituent who be worried about these change . can the Minister confirm that the most disabled people , who will never work , will be protect ; that he be consult on a new high rate of universal credit for those who be most severely disabled ; and that the Chancellor ' s £ 1 billion investment in employment support will help those disabled people who could work to find good - quality job , which be the good route out of poverty ? I thank my hon . friend for her work on disability employment , which have be an important contribution . I can give the reassurance she seek . as someone who live with ulcerative colitis , I be all too acquainted with the fact that health condition can vary wildly . we know that people with condition such as Crohn ' s and colitis and their carer already have issue access PIP and carer ' s allowance . what consideration have the Minister give to condition such as those in the context of these cut ? it be very important that the system properly handle fluctuate condition . one of the benefit of the proposal in the Green Paper to record by default PIP assessment be that we will be able to provide well assurance that the assessment get these judgment right , particularly in the case of fluctuate condition . I know from speak to charity , local group and people from brilliant project such as JobSmart in my constituency about the increase complexity of the relationship between different form of benefit , include carer ' s allowance , and the rule around work . that make it increasingly difficult for people to use the option they have . can my right hon . Friend assure the House that the record amount of employment support will address the issue of the flexibility that we need to support sick and disabled people into some form of work , and will not just be for mentor for those in other category ? my hon . friend be absolutely right , and I join he in pay tribute to organisation such as JobSmart in his constituency . when the previous Labour Government introduce the new deal for disabled people in 1998 — I be the Minister then , as I be now — the disability employment gap start to fall , and it fall steadily all the way until 2010 , when it stop fall . I want to get we back to that positive downward trajectory . the Minister be an honourable man . I have know he a long time , and I know that he try to be compassionate and helpful , but I have deep concern about this . it would appear that the book be to be balance on the back of the vulnerable . I have a genuine concern that the outworking of the spring statement may push some people with severe mental health problem over the edge . how will the Government put in place great support for those who have to battle their recognise illness and live — not just survive — in this pressure - fill world ? that will be even hard after these change be implement . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for his kind word at the start of his question . our proposal fully protect the personal independence payment of those with the most severe impairment . I think those be the people that he be concerned about , and they be fully protect under these plan . obviously , the work of carer be important , as we have be hear . can the Minister help I with one constituent ' s case ? he be a carer , but be now suffer from long covid and would be due PIP . what will happen to he under the point system ? an assessment will be carry out by a properly train health professional . if the person to whom my hon . friend refer score more than four point on any one of the 10 daily living activity , they will be eligible for personal independence payment , as at present . it be shocking that one in eight of our young people be not in education , employment or training . I want this to be a country in which all work - age people , include young people , feel that sense of opportunity again . I know how important work be in lift people out of poverty . I also know that it be in our dna as a Labour party to be there for people who be disabled , vulnerable or not able to work . will the Minister share how that £ 1 billion - a - year support package will help those who can work get into work ? and do he agree that we will always have the back of those who can not work , and those who care for they ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . we will be work with disabled people over the next few month on the plan for how that commitment should be take forward . we say in the " get Britain work " White Paper , before Christmas , that we will be set up a disability employment panel specifically to work on those plan . I will be very keen to work with she on those detail as we draw they up . rise — order . member will need to move a little fast , as will the Minister . many of my constituent will welcome the reform to get more people off benefit and into work . many recognise the urgent need to make our welfare system more sustainable , but many also deeply worry about not just the impact on carer , but the impact assessment that suggest that 50 , 000 more child will be push into poverty by 2029 . can the Minister assure I not just about the transitional arrangement to help both parent and child , but that this summer ' s child poverty taskforce will take urgent step to correct the impact assessment and that parent and child will be score urgently in any future impact assessment that the Government come up with ? my hon . friend be right to highlight the challenge of high level of child poverty . I certainly can give he the reassurance that he seek . I think the employment impact will be very positive on future child poverty , but the work of the child poverty taskforce will be as well . and , yes , that will be fully score once the policy have be announce . I be grateful to the Government for focus on get people back into work because it give they pride , power and ownership , but , as ever , it be not what you do , but how you do it . I say to the Minister that , rather than allay my concern , the impact assessment have actually give I several more . I ask he to find time to meet I so that we can go through two thing : the concern that my constituent in Newcastle - under - Lyme have , and those that I have , too . I will gladly meet my hon . friend and look forward to the meeting . I welcome my right hon . friend ' s commitment to improve the experience of people go through the assessment process , as I be regularly shock by some of the experience of my constituent . can he say a little more about how he will improve claimant experience , particularly for the most vulnerable claimant ? the key proposal in the Green Paper be the default recording of assessment , so that when something go wrong , we can check back and see what happen . I have have the experience , as my hon . friend probably have , of talk to people who have be through the assessment and then see it and say , " well , that wasn ' t I . it be unrecognisable . " that should not be happen , and we want to change that . I thank the Minister for his statement . I declare an interest as the chair of the all - party parliamentary group for young carer and young adult carer . do the Minister agree that the role of young carer be critical not only to those who be care for , but to the economy ? although young carer under 16 do not receive carer ' s allowance , will he consider the impact of any plan on young carer and how we might well support they ? order . before the Minister respond , I remind the hon . member that this be an urgent question , not a statement . my hon . friend be right to highlight the need of young carer . I have speak to young people who start care in their primary school year . it take a while for they to be recognise as carer . we need to speed thing up . I have speak to Jobcentre plus in Rugby about its excellent work to support people into work , include young people with special educational need whom I have meet . will my right hon . friend confirm that the package of employment support announce last week — something that charity in my constituency have long be call for — be one of the big ever amount of money to give disabled people and those with long - term condition the help they need to find work ? absolutely , it be . the people that my hon . friend describe will be the beneficiary of the big commitment that we have make . I thank the Minister for the constructive and thoughtful way in which he have engage with member over the past week . I have write to he in the past couple of day on two matter , and I would like to take the opportunity to put they to he . first , he be lead a review of the PIP assessment — will its term of reference be make public ? secondly , there be a case for look again at the PIP criterion , as set out in secondary legislation , which be oppose by Labour 12 year ago . will he continue to engage in the manner that he have be do with member now that we be in the consultation period , include on that point ? I will be very glad to . my hon . friend be right that the indicator use in the current personal independence payment assessment be draw up in 2013 . it be high time that we have another look at they , and I will be happy to put the term of reference for that work into the public domain . I look forward to the opportunity to discuss it with he . Scunthorpe Steelworks ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Business and Trade to make a statement on the future of Scunthorpe steelwork . first , my thought be , and the thought of all hon . member will be , with British Steel worker and their family , follow the company ' s announcement of plan to close the blast furnace and other steelmaking asset at Scunthorpe , and its commercial decision to consult on redundancy . this be not what we want , and I know how worrying it will be for all those involve . I be grateful to my hon . friend the Member for Scunthorpe ( Sir Nicholas Dakin ) , who be in his constituency today engage directly with his local community . in the immediate term , we must support the people who work at British Steel . our contingency plan have kick in to ensure that all possible support be make available to British Steel ' s workforce . both the Department for Work and Pensions and the Department for Education will have team on the ground shortly to engage with employee for as long as necessary . we have ask British Steel that official be give direct access to British Steel site to bring their support as close as possible to affected worker . this Government inherit a steel sector in crisis , and resolve the long - stand uncertainty around the future of Scunthorpe have be a priority from our first day in office . that be why , when we commit up to £ 2 . 5 billion of investment to support our steel industry , we earmark substantial funding to support British Steel , in addition to the funding allocate to our new and improved deal with Tata Steel . I confirm today that we have take another significant step forward . on Monday , my right hon . friend the Business and Trade Secretary make a generous conditional offer of financial support to British Steel design to deliver a sustainable future for the workforce , industry and local community . in the light of the challenging fiscal context , this speak volume about our commitment to the steel industry . the offer follow month of intensive engagement with British Steel to reach a deal that meet our public accountability and legal requirement , work for local people and UK taxpayer , safeguard as many job as possible and ensure the company ' s long - term commercial viability . the offer that we have make be conditional on British Steel meeting those key test , which be consistent with our approach to similar investment deal . the company must provide the commitment that we need , and which taxpayer would quite rightly expect , in exchange for substantial public funding . it be regrettable that it have not yet do so or accept our offer . I therefore call on the company to reconsider its plan to announce early closure , accept our condition and accept our generous offer , which remain on the table . I assure the House that we be work tirelessly to find a solution . we believe that there be a bright future for steelmaking in the UK , and we call on British Steel to work in partnership with a Government who care deeply about the steel sector to put the business on a sustainable footing for the future and to put an end to the year of uncertainty at Scunthorpe . I thank the Minister for her statement and for the update that she have provide to I in recent week . as she say , there will be increase anxiety among the workforce today , and we look to the Government to provide maximum support . for the sake of clarity , will the Minister confirm that the Government do wish to maintain blast furnace production until an alternative arc furnace installation be up and run ? will she also confirm that they want to maintain production to meet the demand of the defence sector , particularly in view of the recently announce increase spending ? the Minister will be aware of the project that North Lincolnshire council have propose , such as the green growth zone and those in the artificial intelligence sector . will she confirm that she will support they ? she will also be aware of other project in the region that be look for Government support . will she confirm that she will look sympathetically on they ? also , although I would not want to advocate this , will the Government consider nationalisation of the industry as a last resort ? I thank the hon . gentleman for the manner in which he have represent his constituent today and engage with we previously . on the point of clarity , I confirm that we would rather the blast furnace remain open . he know that if they close before a supply of steel be secure , that would be significant in term of customer confidence and what will happen to the customer base . on the hon . Gentleman ' s point about defence , as be say at the Business and Trade Committee yesterday , there be a reason why the Russians bomb the blast furnace in Ukraine first : steelmaking capacity be need not just for defence , but for build the structure require for construction . he be therefore absolutely right on that front . this morning , I meet the council and talk about both the plan for we to work together on British Steel and the wide question of what else we can do in the region and how the Government can support that . a small ministerial team have be come together to think about those thing . on the hon . Gentleman ' s final point , as he know , the amount of money that we be talk about to develop new infrastructure be significant . our preferred approach by far be that British Steel come back to the table , talk with we about the offer on the table and we have that private sector investment in the future , but of course we be look at all option . I call the Chair of the Business and Trade Committee . may I welcome the Minister ' s explicit ambition to retain primary steelmaking capability on these island ? I hope the whole House will row in with that . I also welcome the £ 2 . 5 billion that the Government have earmark for investment in the sector . will she , however , put a rocket up the Trade Remedies Authority ? we have hear very clearly from steelmaker that they need the same safeguard against divert chinese steel flooding into our market that will click into place in Europe in April . it be not acceptable that we have to wait until the summer for our market to be safeguard in the same way . the TRA need to act , and it need to act now . I thank my right hon . friend for his question and his contribution through the Select Committee session we have yesterday . the TRA announce yesterday that it will widen its review of UK steel defence . it have accept the challenge from UK Steel to do just that and be act . the Secretary of State and other will be look to make sure our steel defence be as strong as they need to be . today ' s news about Scunthorpe sit alongside the wide issue about tariff and the global trade of steel . we need to make sure we be help in that space too . I call the shadow Minister . the news from Scunthorpe be deeply concern . job be at risk and our thought be with all those who now face uncertainty . the world be become more dangerous and we need to bolster our defence industry . without the ability to produce our own primary steel , those effort could be put in jeopardy . what impact do the Minister believe the news will have on Britain ' s defence industry and what impact do she believe closure would have on our national security ? it take a special something to be able to offer someone £ 500 million and for they to reject it , but whatever it be , I guess the Business Secretary have it . whenever Labour negotiate , Britain lose . whether with Mauritius , AstraZeneca or now British Steel , the Government confirm that — and so far , at least , that appear to be the case with the United States too . the Government pretend that tariff on steel be inevitable , which , as we show in government , be simply not the case . therefore , will the Minister update the House on United States trade negotiation , in particular in relation to steel ? will the Minister confirm that the Business Secretary have engage far with Jingye since it reject he ? tariff be but one challenge face the industry . alongside the job tax and the unemployment Bill , the steel industry be be choke by the Government ' s ideological green target . will the Minister tell the House what concern British Steel have express about those net zero target ? as I say at the beginning , this news will be deeply concern for steelworker in Scunthorpe . have the Minister or the Secretary of State speak with they about the news and , if so , what support be they be offer ? I do not want to insult this House by suggest that there be any kind of deal on the table under the previous Government and that anything happen on steel other than a halving of production over the last decade — a halving . lot of thing shut down and close during that period , not just in the steel industry but in many other . I look at my hon . friend the Member for Redcar ( Anna Turley ) for proof of that . whether in steel , in shipbuilding or in the automative sector , the previous Government have neglect to take major decision or have kick the can down the road . all we inherit be a series of industrial crisis that we be now try to solve . we deliver a well deal with Port Talbot than have be negotiate under the previous Government . we be still in talk with British Steel and hope that we can come to a resolution , and not just because of the very many very highly skilled worker in Scunthorpe who we respect , honour and want to make sure stay in their job . I have nothing more to say on that front . on tariff and the situation with the US , we be in a good position in this country in that the relationship that our Prime Minister have build with President Donald Trump and his team mean that we be in active conversation about a potential trade deal . this be a good , positive thing , and we be carry on have those conversation . my right hon . friend the Secretary of State have be talk regularly with our american counterpart , as member would expect . we will have cool head in this space and navigate our way through . we — our official — be talk daily with British Steel . we be talk with the trade union and all the player to try to ensure that , in the difficult global landscape that we find ourselves in , we be do right by the people of Scunthorpe . I draw the House ' s attention to my background as an official of the GMB steelworker union , that union ' s support for my constituency party and my membership of GMB and Unite . the three steelworker union — GMB , Unite and Community — have put forward a multi - union plan for Scunthorpe . will the Minister meet those union urgently , include with cross - governmental officer , so that we can do everything possible to keep that multi - union plan on the table ? I take this opportunity to pay tribute to the trade union — GMB , Community and Unite — which we have be work with closely . we have be discuss their plan . as I say , our preference be that British Steel accept the deal — the incredibly generous offer of public funding — we have give it . we hope we can find a way forward that involve keep the blast furnace open , but we be of course look at every other option , and we certainly have be talk to the trade union about their suggestion . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . like the Minister , my thought be with the british steelworker and their family follow the closure of the Scunthorpe site . it be not close yet . it be go to . from electric vehicle to wind turbine , high - quality green steel be an important component of our transition to a low - carbon economy . the Government need to move rapidly from the Conservative ' s legacy of a patchwork of last - minute rescue to a genuinely long - term approach that be effective for british industry and do not harm british worker . what be the Government do to ensure that community in Teesside and Scunthorpe be support against job loss ? when will the Government realise that sit on our hand and hope that Trump will not hit we with even more tariff be not a good negotiating strategy ? will the Minister take a strong approach and bring forward retaliatory measure against Donald Trump ' s political ally such as his co - President Elon Musk and his company Tesla ? I can reassure the hon . Gentleman that we be not sit on our hand , and there be a good reason why it would not be right to comment in this place on the internal negotiation between this Government and the United States . we will rightly keep a cool head in those conversation and ensure that we be ultimately do what be right for our industry and our people , but we be in a good position in that we be engage in deep conversation with the US and will continue to do that . the hon . Gentleman ask about the support for local people . there be various stage . the starting point be that we very much hope that we can come to a deal and negotiate with British Steel — that it will accept what we be offer and that we can move forward on those term . in the short term , the Department for Work and Pensions and the Department for Education will be there on the ground ensure that people be get the immediate support they need . if the consultation continue and there be a closure , of course much more intervention to support local people would need to kick in . we be already work on all manner of contingency to ensure that we support people as we be do in Port Talbot , but our aim be absolutely not to get to that point . I call Select Committee member Sonia Kumar . the UK now produce less steel than our european neighbour Germany , Italy , Spain , France , Austria and Poland , and over the past 30 year , China ' s share of global steel production have rise from 13 % to 54 % . to safeguard the future of the steel industry , we must think about diversification . do my hon . friend agree that support british small and medium - sized enterprise into the steel industry will make it more competitive and sustainable ? I thank my hon . friend for that conversation and all her work with the steel industry in her constituency . the steel strategy that we be put together , which will be publish in the spring with £ 2 . 5 billion to invest , will consider how to stimulate demand , use research and development and get the most out of scrap in the UK , as well as look at trade and overcapacity , carbon leakage and the availability of site — there be a whole raft of work go on . she be right about ensure that there be an industry for the big and small player . that be what we be work through , and I look forward to work with she on that . I call the Father of the House . Scunthorpe neighbour my constituency , and many of my constituent who work there will be desperately worried today . this be a vital national interest — a crisis . for the past 150 year , war have be win by state that can make virgin steel . will the Government do anything — tariff , or the Secretary of State go up to Scunthorpe now to negotiate directly with the company — to ensure that we keep our vital national interest go , which mean blast furnace ? as the right hon . Gentleman would expect , the Secretary of State be and have be talk to Jingye , as have I and official . those negotiation will continue . the site at Scunthorpe produce a lot of different type of steel , as he will know . it provide 95 % of all steel use by Network Rail . it be incredibly important in that sense , and he be right to draw attention to that . there be many different way of make steel . on the primary steel point , we be investigate the merit of invest in direct reduce iron , which be when hydrogen be use instead of the old blast furnace . the reality be that the Scunthorpe blast furnace be old infrastructure — decade old — that need update . we need to move to new technology , and that be what we be try to do with Jingye . clearly , the absence of an industrial strategy in the past five year have have an impact , so I welcome the Government ' s notion of a steel plan . give that the industrial strategy feature three major element — construction , defence and energy infrastructure — will the steel plan look not at a 10 - year horizon but at one of 25 to 30 year , to ensure that we get the investment we need for the UK to have virgin steel production , like all other 19 country of the G20 ? I thank my hon . friend for his question and for his expertise as a member of the Select Committee . we have this debate yesterday . yes , have a long view have to be the right thing . the Government must ensure that we spend that £ 2 . 5 billion of taxpayer ' money in the right way to secure the industry well into the future . as the grandson of a steelworker in Corby , Northamptonshire , I understand something of the iconic nature of the industry . the hon . Lady try to blame we conservative for what go wrong . be the situation not too confused ? the Government be not send the right signal to the industry and we be not sure what we want . we already do not make the right kind of steel for much of the defence industry . the steel strategy will be publish in the spring — wonderful . when be the spring ? the Government need to get a grip and send out signal now . if we be go to negotiate with the Chinese about the Scunthorpe mill and the amount of money we be spend there , should we not have some kind of golden share so that taxpayer be comfortable about what be go on there ? I can assure the hon . Gentleman that I very much have a grip . we be work with official , the Secretary of State and other all the time . in term of the condition that he suggest we should put on the offer of funding , the offer we make be conditional on job target , fair term for worker , adhere to UK law , protect taxpayer ' money — a whole raft of condition be set and need to be adhere to . as for the hon . Gentleman ' s haste , there be no steel strategy in the 14 year of the previous Government . we be develop one . I be not go to stand in front of taxpayer in my constituency and say , " I have spend £ 2 . 5 billion just on a whim . " we have to get this right . we be work with industry . I be at Celsa in Cardiff this week at a roundtable of the scrap industry and the steelmaker talk about the plan . I have do roundtable with all the industry that buy steel to ensure that we understand what demand will be over the come year . we be get this right , which be what the taxpayer would expect of we . my hon . friend the Member for Scunthorpe ( Sir Nicholas Dakin ) be in Scunthorpe right now , support our fantastic steelworker . many of my constituent work in Scunthorpe ; I know that they will be feel extremely anxious , and my heart go out to they . will the Minister confirm that she remain steely in her determination to secure the future of the UK construction and steel industry , and that she will do everything she possibly can to support my constituent who be affect ? my hon . friend ' s constituent who work for British Steel will , of course , be deeply worried . when I be last there in February , I talk to worker , the union and management . this be a proud industry of good job with good salary compare with the local average . I be well aware of how anxious those worker will be feel ; I hope they can take some comfort , at least , from the fact that we be do absolutely everything we can to secure a deal with British Steel . it be difficult to listen to the Minister at the Dispatch Box say that everything be okay with the United States because of the positive relationship between the Prime Minister and the President , when it can be characterise as the President say , " jump , " and the Prime Minister ask , " how high ? " the US have visit precisely the same tariff on the UK steel industry as on the Chinese . if that be a special relationship , I would hate to see what an ordinary relationship look like . when will the Government get a grip on the production of primary steel ? it be a non - negotiable for a G7 nation to produce primary steel . it be intrinsic to our defence and security . the Government seem to be try to negotiate a situation that be the bad of all world , whereby the taxpayer have to stump up the money but the private sector in China get to dictate the term . I do not recognise that frame at all . we be in a well position than many other country in term of the strength of our relationship with the US and the building up of relationship that have happen over recent month . as I say , the Secretary of State be in regular talk with his counterpart and we be have constructive talk with our counterpart . we can not go into the detail of those negotiation , but I can assure the hon . Gentleman and the House that we have a cool head , we know what we want and we will do what be good for our industry in the long run . on the matter of primary steel and steelmaking in the UK , we need our defence and our security to have strong , vibrant steelmaking production in the UK . there be different way to do that , include with different technology , which be move all the time . that be why the steel strategy need to anticipate where technology be go and make sure we get that right . I think the Minister be give a few mixed message , if I may say so . the Government be send support people to counsel those who may be out of a job and be make an offer to the firm that will actually be provide those job to try to cushion the blow . the sad reality be that if those blast furnace close down they will not be recoverable , so the first thing that have to happen be ensure that they be not close down . the consequence would be the steel industry go into steep decline , with more people unemployed ; we would then have to import steel from China at a much high cost . why will we not give a guarantee that the blast furnace will not close down ? I be sure the hon . Gentleman know that this be a private company that will make decision of its own . we be operate within that environment . we have put an offer on the table that be about the development and redevelopment of Scunthorpe , the creation of an electric arc furnace and the transition for that . the offer be still on the table and we be still talk to the company about it . the reason that we be there on the ground now be that the company have decide to launch a consultation on redundancy , and it be right and proper that we be there to provide support to worker . I commend the Minister and the Secretary of State for their hard graft to secure a deal in the interest of my steelworker in Teesside and those in Scunthorpe . it be deeply concern that Jingye have choose to reject the generous offer that be on the table . I be sure I stand with member across the House in urge Jingye to come back to the table and secure that deal . will the Minister reaffirm that all option remain open , include strong national intervention to protect our steel industry and make sure that british steel be make here in Britain ? I know that my hon . friend be work hard on behalf of his constituent ; I appreciate be able to talk to he in the run - up to this . I can reassure he that this Government want to deliver a vibrant steel industry in the UK . we be very well aware of the importance of British Steel and of the Scunthorpe site and associate site . we be do all we can to make sure that we keep that operation go . we all know that steel , and particularly the ability to make primary steel , be a critical national industry . the Chinese might be give up on british steel , but the british people do not want to give up on british steel , nor should we allow the final two blast furnace to close . may I urge the Minister to take this not as a negative , but as an opportunity to be positive ? we should take British Steel into public ownership and create a long - term , 20 to 30 - year positive plan to invest in steelmaking for british industry and for our defence industry . through our plan for steel and the £ 2 . 5 billion that we be invest in the steel industry , we be aim to do exactly that , to keep the industry go . I invite the hon . gentleman to go and see the other site around the country where we have electric arc furnace in operation , because they be not that different from blast furnace : they be still massive building melt and make the steel , but in a much more efficient way . the problem we have with Scunthorpe be that the blast furnace be very old and will need huge amount of money spend on they , and of course British Steel be lose £ 700 , 000 a day on Scunthorpe . this be not about ideology or particular political belief ; this be about economic and about make sure that we protect our country , that we provide the defence we need , and that we be as secure as we can be in a change world . on that , I agree with the hon . Gentleman . I thank my hon . friend for her statement ; I know that she be do all she can on the issue . we can not have a defence industrial strategy unless we have our own primary steelmaking facility , so clearly we can not let these furnace close . I be interested to hear what the Minister say about have various meeting in Whitehall and with the Treasury . when be she likely to be able to come back to the House and report on the progress make on this issue and , importantly , on a steel strategy for the long term — not just five or 10 year , but 20 year or more ? I can reassure my hon . friend that the Treasury be completely committed to have a plan for steel . we talk to my right hon . friend the Chancellor a lot about this when we be in opposition , just as we have be do in Government . the very generous offer put on the table to British Steel be sign off , as be quite right , by the Chancellor and by the Prime Minister . they be both commit to this . we will be come back in the spring with the steel plan , in which we will set out how we will spend the rest of the fund that we have . in the meantime , I again urge British Steel to come back and talk about the offer that be on the table and see whether we can come to a deal . give the geopolitical uncertainty usher in by the new American Administration and by America and China ' s attitude to net zero , will the Minister assure the House that in make decision on the future of critical national infrastructure that touch upon the defence of this country , such as the extraction of shale gas and the continuance of blast furnace produce virgin steel , she will be very careful about do anything that would reduce this country ' s capability to stand on its own two foot ? I will certainly ensure that we do not do anything that reduce our ability to stand on our own two foot . I can give the right hon . Gentleman that assurance . I thank the Minister for her comment on the national steel strategy and for agree to meet the owner of Union Electric Steel in my constituency . do she agree that continue to be able to produce cast steel roll in the UK be an essential part of the steel strategy that will benefit Scunthorpe , Port Talbot and other community ? I be very much look forward to the meeting with my hon . friend ' s constituent , who be an important part of the steel chain . he make an important point : we make many different product and have many different asset in the UK that we need to protect , beyond the big six steel company . it be now clear that domestic virgin steel production be a national security imperative . act on it be not act on a whim . will the Minister respond to her hon . friend and to Conservative Members by recognise that domestic virgin steel production be a national security imperative ? whether it be through nationalisation , golden share or the other idea that have be suggest , if it be a national security imperative we must act , regardless of technology . will the Minister please tell the House that she agree with that ? Madam Deputy Speaker , you will recognise the conversation that we be have from your experience as Minister of State in the Department for Business , Energy and Industrial Strategy . the Opposition seem to have a new - find enthusiasm for virgin steelmaking that in government they do not have at all . we will make sure that we be do the right thing . [ interruption . ] I do not have time to go into this conversation at this point , but I will be very happy to have it with the right hon . Gentleman . there be some important point to note , include that we make a lot of our steel for defence not from primary steel but in electric arc furnace . it be about get the right mix . that be what we will make sure we do . last week , I visit British Offsite , whose chief executive officer hail from my constituency of Harlow , about the innovative house building that it be do use technique that require a lot of steel , although I have to say that it use it efficiently . what meeting have the Minister have with house builder , as well as with the defence sector , as she rightly say , as part of the Government ' s steel strategy ? I meet house builder regularly ; I have some meeting with they today . the production and recycling of steel be important to construction , as be some of the off - take from steel that can be use to make cement ; there be recycling that can be do on that front as well . we need a lot of steel to build the 1 . 5 million home that the Government want to build , so we need to make sure that the steel industry be strong . I thank the Minister for her answer . we all share her frustration about the process . the news that the Government ' s offer of funding to retain job at Scunthorpe be to be reject certainly outline the difficulty in british business no long be own by those who have an interest in british job . my thought be with the worker today who be look at their child and their mortgage repayment and wonder how they can make it work out , when all they want to do be work . how can the Government give confidence to worker in Scunthorpe and in industry that rely on steel throughout the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , so that they know that a way forward can be find ? the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right to talk about how we can give comfort in what be a very difficult time ; we be not shy away from that at all . the immediate support that we will provide through the Department for Work and Pensions and the Department for Education be important . if there be a closure , there will be a big transition board , through which we will support people as much possible , and ensure that they get skill and training , as he would expect . the comfort that we can give people now be that we be try as hard as we can to make sure that closure do not happen . business of the House will the Leader of the House give we the forthcoming business ? I shall . the business for the week commence 31 March include : Monday 31 March — consideration of Lords message on the Non - Domestic Rating ( Multipliers and Private Schools ) Bill , follow by remain stage of the Institute for Apprenticeships and Technical Education ( transfer of Functions etc ) Bill [ Lords ] . Tuesday 1 April — if necessary , consideration of Lords message , follow by Second Reading of the Product Regulation and Metrology Bill [ Lords ] . Wednesday 2 April — if necessary , consideration of Lords message , follow by a motion to approve the draft Infrastructure Planning ( Onshore Wind and Solar Generation ) Order 2025 , follow by a motion to approve the draft Motor Vehicles ( Driving Licences ) ( amendment ) ( no . 2 ) Regulations 2025 , follow by a motion to approve the draft Whiplash Injury ( Amendment ) Regulations 2025 . Thursday 3 April — general debate on the impact of digital platform on UK democracy , follow by a general debate on access to sport and PE in school . the subject for these debate be determine by the Backbench Business Committee . Friday 4 April — the House will not be sit . the provisional business for the week commence 7 April include : Monday 7 April — General debate : subject to be confirm . Tuesday 8 April — general debate on the potential merit of award a posthumous Victoria Cross to Blair Mayne , follow by a general debate on matter to be raise before the forthcoming Adjournment . the subject for these debate be determine by the Backbench Business Committee . the House will rise for the Easter recess at the conclusion of business on Tuesday 8 April and will return on Tuesday 22 April . may I start by thank the whole House for their wonderful message of condolence during last week ' s business question ? I could not be more grateful . I single out , in particular , the Leader of the House for her very gracious remark . I turn from father to mother , as this Sunday , of course , be Mother ' s Day . the infant shadow leader of the House have be instruct — not that they need it — on how to manage the occasion . I be sure that the whole House will want to join I in celebrate mother at the weekend , and express ourselves in all kind of way to thank our mother and the mother we have among we for all the work they do . this have be the week of the spring statement . the House will recall the October Budget in November of last year . it be describe as a once - in - a - generation Budget , with no tax rise to follow . this week we have see that the Chancellor ' s own growth forecast just four month later have be halve , and she have increase cut to welfare benefit . that follow the interesting strategy of abolish NHS England , have just fire all the team run it . the tax burden be on track to hit a record high in 2027 - 28 . we should give credit where credit be due — the Chancellor have protect capital investment , which be a very important and correct decision — but there have also be wheeze . I be sorry to say that she have somewhat pull the wool over the eye of the Office for Budget Responsibility in relation to housing growth , which be the Government ' s new " get out of jail free " card . it have never be include in an OBR estimate before , and it be very doubtful and unlikely that it will happen in any case , even at those level — the target have already be downgrade from 1 . 5 million house to 1 . 3 million house — because of the plan upheaval in local government . meanwhile , the immensely damaging Employment Rights Bill go entirely unscored economically by the OBR . we will see what it say about that piece of legislation next time around . the brutal fact be that although the Government claim to prioritise growth , growth have halve since they come into power . they have talk about little else , but even their own forecast do not show growth get back even to 2 % by the end of the decade , and every major independent expert forecast of the economy ' s future growth be low than that of the OBR . what do we see if we look more closely ? the spring statement be not really about work at all ; it be about move people from welfare into lower - pay welfare . the cut to universal credit announce last week have be follow by a freezing of universal credit — why ? it be because that appear to hit the Chancellor ' s own fiscal headroom number to the decimal point . last week we hear all the rhetoric about the moral case for nudge people back into work , but now it seem that this be actually an accounting exercise , and the economic and moral justification for the policy have be lose sight of . the second point be the question whether artificial intelligence , which the Government have greatly emphasise , will actually have the effect of increase growth . the Chancellor suggest that this idea be somehow obvious and conventional wisdom , but that be very far from true . the Nobel prize - win economist Bob Solow famously say that the effect of the IT revolution could be see everywhere except in the economic number . other country be scale and deploy artificial intelligence with massive speed , and many expert believe that AI could increase unemployment and inequality , and raise the cost of retrain people and reintegrate they into the workforce . far from create economic growth , the advent of AI could end up force a government — possibly this Government — into even more spending than they presently contemplate . finally , we get to the vexed and much - discuss issue of so - call fiscal headroom — or , to use a more technical phrase , the goolie - in - a - vice problem . it have be suggest that the definition of insanity be to keep do the same thing expect a different result . so far , we have see minimal fiscal adjustment at the statement , and meanwhile the Chancellor have manage to recreate the same constraining condition that exist beforehand . this be a situation entirely of the Government ' s own making . it be the Chancellor ' s decision to choose these fiscal rule , and it be her decision then to take measure that undermine economic growth . she have stake her own credibility and that of the Government on those decision . the result be that we will now have endless uncertainty and avoidable speculation about the fiscal position every week , through the comprehensive spending review and into the autumn Budget . the Chancellor have refuse to rule out make more cut to spending . even so , she may have to impose tax rise , and those tax rise could come even soon than anticipate if the US decide to go ahead with the tariff it have suggest . as such , my question be this : what will the Leader of the House feel in her own heart , and what will she say to her Cabinet colleague over the next few week , as the full effect of these terribly damaging decision become clear ? I join the right hon . Gentleman in say that it be really heartwarme to hear so many tribute pay to his father at last week ' s business question . such moment show the House at its good , and I thank he for bring his eulogy to the Floor of the House . I also join he in look forward to Mothering Sunday — maybe I will get some rest on that day , but we will see . first , I will have to pay a visit to my own mum , who I pay tribute to as well . her very favourite phrase , which have stick with I throughout my life , be " they who do nowt do nowt wrong . " I will leave that to linger with a few colleague . as the right hon . Gentleman say , yesterday we hear the spring statement . we hear that this Labour Government be take on the unprecedented long - term challenge that this country face — I know that he and Conservative Members do not want to acknowledge it , but I be afraid that be the reality . the problem that we face run deep . there be huge global uncertainty , as he know ; there have be year of under - investment in infrastructure and in people , lead to low productivity and low growth ; there be the effect of covid , to which we be particularly expose , and which his government do not address , leave a generation of working - age adult consign to benefit and 1 million young people not in education , training or work ; and our economy remain in the long shadow of Liz Truss , who destroy fiscal confidence , leave high and costly debt , high interest rate and ordinary people pay the price . that , I be afraid , be the legacy we be try to address . we be face up to those reality and put this country on a path to improved living standard , secure work , an NHS that be back on its foot , affordable home to live in , and security through defence and our global leadership . that be go to take time — there be no deny it — but the forecast publish yesterday , which the right hon . Gentleman take a selective view of , show the green shoot of recovery . he might not want to hear it , but as the OBR say yesterday , growth forecast after this year have be upgrade as a result of our policy . Britain be now set to be the second - fast grow economy in the G7 this year and next year . I be glad that the shadow Leader of the House be welcome the boost in capital investment , after year and year of under - investment and a downward trajectory in capital spending by his Government . that have lead to another £ 2 billion extra earmark for defence , another £ 2 billion more for affordable and social housing , and a transformation fund that will help reform our public service and deliver those well outcome . after the right hon . Gentleman ' s Government leave million languish in the aftermath of covid — that be what they do — we have get a plan to get people back to work , and we be make sure that the welfare safety net be sustainable for the long term . that be a far cry , I be afraid , from his government . our plan include a pay rise for the low earner , come in next week . the Employment Rights Bill , which we on the Government Benches be proud of , will give dignity and security in work . we have protection for the most in need and the big back to work programme in a generation . even in the long shadow of Liz Truss — a very long shadow — which loom large over our fiscal credibility , interest rate be come down , inflation be now under control and stability be restore . the shadow Leader of the House ask about the headroom , but I gently remind he that the headroom that the Chancellor set out yesterday be 50 % more than the headroom she inherit from her predecessor . one of the most shocking aspect of what we inherit be the eye - watering cost of service our enormous debt . we now spend £ 100 billion a year servicing debt , which be more than we spend on defence , justice and the Home Office combine . that be what we inherit from the Conservatives . even in the face of those challenge , the Labour Chancellor announce yesterday that the Government ' s day - to - day spending will be go up above inflation each year for this forecast , and that will help restore our public service and give support to those who need it most . those be labour value in practice , make different choice for this country in the interest of work people . that be what labour value be all about . I refer the Leader of the House to the public office standard Bill , well know as the Hillsborough law , which be how I would like to refer to it . she will know my history in what happen at Hillsborough and , subsequently , with the independent panel report , and the involvement I have in the negotiation between Ministers , family and other . from what we be hear , it seem that we be approach a similar situation , where Whitehall be find reason to find problem with the law , rather than deliver it . it be only when we have the intervention of the then Home Secretary , Alan Johnson , and then Baroness May of Maidenhead , when she become Home Secretary , that we get thing move again . can I ask the Leader of the House to talk to her Government colleague to ensure that the duty of candour , parity of funding for family at inquest and other issue that we agree on will be include in that Bill and that it will be publish soon ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this issue . I know of his long history with the Hillsborough disaster — indeed , I understand that he be there that day . he and all the family affect want to see justice , and they want to see the Hillsborough law come into effect . this Government remain committed to bring forward legislation in that regard , as we have say , but we want to ensure that it reflect the full range of concern and experience of those affect , and that be the most important thing with this legislation . we remain committed to work with the family and all those affect to make sure , as we work at pace on that piece of legislation , that it meet their expectation . we will be set out our next step shortly . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the Government ' s welfare change , announce in yesterday ' s spring statement , will see 150 , 000 carer lose half a billion pound of support by 2030 . carer receive precious little support already , so remove what little they get will do nothing to help people into work . instead , it will just put more pressure on already overstretch carer , social care and , as we all know , the NHS . these change come when the NHS be in a state of flux and uncertainty . integrated care board who run local health service have be tell to make eye - watering cut of 50 % to their running cost , but the Government have not publish an impact assessment on these ICB cut or set out what the effect will be on patient . be we to assume that the Government be do this in the dark ? should we assume , perhaps , that they be close their eye and hope for the good , while in reality not have a clue what it will mean for patient , carer or people in their time of need ? surely if they have properly assess their proposal , and it be all go to be fine , they would waste no time in tell we . the alternative , of course , be that the Government know exactly how bad these cut will be and what they will mean for our struggle health and care service . either way , it be right that this House and the public should know what the Government know about the impact of their plan . will the Leader of the House therefore grant Government time to discuss the impact on our NHS of cut carer support and of their rush cut to integrate care board ? on carer ' s allowance and the reform to welfare that have be set out to this House in a number of statement and urgent question , our guide principle be to ensure that the safety net be there for the most in need , that there be well support for those who can work to get back into work , and that our welfare system and payment , such as personal independence payment and the associated carer ' s allowance and other thing that sit alongside it , be there for the long term . frankly , the situation as it stand today mean that aspect of that be not sustainable into the long term . for example , we be see more than a thousand new people a day be award personal independence payment , and that be simply not sustainable . however , I absolutely agree with the hon . Lady that such reform need to be do carefully , with compassion and in a manage way . we need to consider all aspect , especially in relation to what might be consider passporte benefit . primary legislation will be come forward on these issue shortly , so they will be fully debate on the Floor of the House . I be sure that member will take time to consider those measure . the hon . Lady raise some question about icb and the change we be make to the national health service and NHS England . our intention and our aim be to get more money back into frontline service and have less be spend on management and duplication in the back - office system . again , some of those aspect will need primary legislation . that will be bring forward , and therefore impact assessment and other thing will come to light at that time . the UK have one of the bad paternity offer in Europe , and nowhere be that more apparent than in the police force , where new research from the Dad Shift show that many frontline officer be take just one week of paternity leave , because that be all they be entitle to on full pay . do the Leader of the House agree that when the Government present their review of paternity leave to this place , a well deal for dad who serve on the frontline in the force should be an important consideration ? may I commend my hon . friend for his campaigning on this issue , which I know he have raise in other way , and also commend the Dad Shift for its campaigning ? Police officer work tirelessly for all of we to keep our street safe on behalf of the whole country , and they should be entitle to proper paternity leave . he be right to say that we have a review under way . the Employment Rights Bill be pass through Parliament at the moment , and I will ensure that these issue be consider as part of that review . I call the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee . in addition to the business that the Leader of the House have announce , it would be very helpful if we be tell whether we will get Thursday 24 April in the Chamber , because we have debate request . equally , she have announce that there will be general debate on Monday 7 April , but we now have a queue of 37 debate wait to be hear in the Chamber . by my calculation , that will take we up to the November recess , even if there be no further application . it would be very helpful if we could get some of those debate allocate . the business in Westminster Hall next week will include a debate on eat disorder awareness on Tuesday 1 April . on Thursday , there will be a debate on waste incinerator , follow by a debate on Government support for Thames Water . on Tuesday 8 April , there will be a debate on the persecution of Christians . I will follow up with the debate after the Easter recess next week . on 13 April 1919 , family gather peacefully in the Jallianwala Bagh to enjoy the sun and a day out . on behalf of the British Army , General Dyer march his troop in and order they to fire on innocent people until they run out of ammunition . at the end of the massacre , 1 , 500 people be dead and 1 , 200 injure . eventually , General Dyer be disgrace for that stain on the british empire . in 2019 , the then Prime Minister , Theresa May , recognise that this event be a stain on british colonial rule in India . the anniversary of the massacre will be on 13 April , when we be in recess . could we have a Government statement admit to what go wrong and formally give an apology to the people of India ? as ever , I thank the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee for arrange so much Back - Bench business and for announce it here today , which I appreciate . as we have discuss in private and in these session , I will continue to endeavour to give he as much notice as possible of future slot for his Committee . I thank the hon . gentleman for raise the important matter of the Jallianwala Bagh massacre . as he say , it be one of the most notorious and shameful episode in the history of british colonialism , particularly in India . I will ensure that Foreign Office Ministers have hear his question , and I will suggest that they bring forward a statement in advance of the anniversary . at the Copeland Street car park in my Derby South constituency , people be get rip off with parking charge time after time . too often , break parking machine or app that will not load mean that well - intentione driver be fine . too many of these unfair fine go unchallenged , with parking company pocket the cash . could the House please be update on the Government ' s plan to introduce a parking code of practice so that we can protect driver from rip - off company ? as constituency mp , we can absolutely recognise what my hon . friend have say , and many of we share his anger and frustration at how cowboy outfit operate . they be rip people off , as he say . we be determined to drive up standard across the sector . a private parking code of practice will be publish in due course , and I will ensure that this House be the first to hear about it . could we have a debate to recognise the important role that gps and local medical practice play in our community ? today we be join in the Public Gallery by the practice manager of Coldstream medical practice , Yvonne Archibald , and the practice ' s therapy dog , Hattie . she be a huge part of the practice team and act as an unofficial therapy pet for both patient and staff . Hattie have already visit no . 10 Downing Street on another trip , and be now enjoy her trip to the House of Commons to see you in action , Madam Deputy Speaker . I join the hon . gentleman in welcome Yvonne , the practice manager of Coldstream medical practice , and Hattie , the therapy dog . we be all look at a very cute dog in the Public Gallery . it sound like Hattie would give anybody some much - need therapy — perhaps we could all go and stroke she after this session , because I feel like we probably need it . there be a video of Hattie chase Larry the cat up Downing Street . I thank the hon . gentleman for raise the important work of therapy dog like Hattie . today mark the 45th anniversary of the Kielland disaster off the coast of Norway in the North sea , which take the life of 123 man . twenty - two of they be british , include Michael Fleming , Keith Hunter , Brian Graham , John Grady and Colin Lamb from Cleator Moor in my constituency . many question remain unanswered for the family of those who tragically lose their life . do my right hon . friend agree that we should call on the norwegian authority to make available all the information that they collect during their inquiry in the 1980 — much of which remain unpublished — so that the family who lose love one can finally get some answer ? I thank my hon . friend for raise what be obviously a very important issue for his constituent , and for those still mourn the loss of friend and family in the Kielland disaster all those year ago . I be really sorry to hear that they feel that many question be still unanswered . I know the british authority be work closely with the norwegian authority in Oslo , but I will ensure that he get a full reply about that and that his constituent get the answer they deserve . in the 1960 , my constituency of Romford , which be part of the London borough of Havering , form part of Greater London , but we be in Essex . the Government be follow through with a devolution plan for the county of Essex . will the Leader of the House please allow Havering to be consider as part of that discussion ? People be deeply unhappy with the control from inner London . we feel much close connection to Essex , and provide that there can be some guarantee about Transport for London , policing and thing of that sort , it make absolute sense for we to be part of that discussion . will she arrange a debate on the Floor of the House , and perhaps a meeting with I and the Minister responsible , to try to find a solution to this issue and make my constituent very happy ? I hear the hon . Gentleman ' s strong representation for his constituency to be part of Essex , although I think he say that he would still like the benefit of be part of the Greater London area . we be embark on the big devolution of power that have happen under any Government , and part of that be about redrawe the map for local community . his community should absolutely continue to make representation through he . I will certainly ensure that the Minister for Local Government , my hon . friend the Member for Oldham West , Chadderton and Royton ( Jim McMahon ) , have a discussion with he about the possibility of Havering join Essex . the Boyle family run Boghall Butchers in Bathgate , and have serve the community and my constituency with pride for 50 year . just three week ago , the Boghall Butchers doner kebab pie be crown supreme champion at the british pie award . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate the Boyle family on their dedicated service and award - win fusion pie , and join I on a visit to Bathgate to taste the pie of pie ? regular attender of these session will know that I be very keen on invitation to taste the culinary output of constituency , particularly those that come in the form of pie , although I have not hear of a kebab - fill pie . some might call it pie - oneering . [ laughter . ] come on , give I some credit ! I join my hon . friend in congratulate the Boyle family and all at Boghall Butchers . last night , President Donald Trump announce a new 25 % tariff on all import car go into the United States , and today the Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders have reveal that vehicle production decline by 11 . 6 % in February , fall for the 12th month in a row , while Stellantis be close its Luton plant and BMW be scale back its investment in Oxford . the automotive industry need great confidence from this Government . will the Leader of the House ensure that there be a ministerial statement to update we on the Government ' s effort to protect this vital sector ? I absolutely will ensure that there be a ministerial statement as these thing develop . the hon . member will be aware that we be in intensive negotiation with the US on tariff and broad trading arrangement . he will appreciate that we be in a fairly unique position among country , in that the UK have a trade deficit with the US , so the US benefit more from that relationship than we do . I think that give we some advantage in the conversation that we continue to have , but we recognise how important it be to make sure that we be not affect by tariff , if at all possible . I will ensure that the House be update . BBC Scotland announce last week that the much - love , long - run drama series " River City " will be decommission by the autumn of 2026 . the fictional town of Shieldinch be base in my constituency of West Dunbartonshire ; the set and studio be in Dumbarton . BBC Scotland be part of the wide BBC , which be a public service broadcaster with a duty to use public fund to produce scottish content , include drama . after 23 year of BBC Scotland support scottish actor and production talent , I be concerned that skill and career development opportunity in the industry will be lose in the west of Scotland . can the Leader of the House bring this to the attention of the Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport , and will she urge the BBC to reconsider its decision and save Scotland ' s only domestic tv soap ? I be really sorry to hear that " River City " be be decommission by the BBC . I know this will be of great concern to my hon . friend ' s constituent and those across Scotland . he be right to say that the BBC have a duty to represent , serve and reflect all the community of the UK , include by make sure that there be scottish content for scottish audience . I will ensure that he get a thorough response from the Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport , but I thank he for raise this very important matter . as a Minister , I be partly involve in the introduction of a Groceries Code Adjudicator . the aim of that supermarket ombudsman be to ensure a fair food chain , yet year later , farm - gate price bear little relation to the price that consumer pay , and farmer and grower still struggle to get a fair deal . the Chairman of the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee , the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) , have suggest that the power of the ombudsman be increase . can we have a debate about that in Government time ? my farmer , grower and food firm in Lincolnshire deserve a fair deal . they deserve to be protect from these greedy corporate behemoth . when I be a new MP in 2012 , one of the first Public Bill Committees of which I be a member be the Groceries Code Adjudicator Bill Committee ; I be not sure if the right hon . Member be the Minister . I have follow the Groceries Code Adjudicator closely ever since , as I be sure he appreciate , and I often hear about it on " Farming Today " in the small hour , when I can not sleep . I be well aware of the issue that he raise about make sure that our farmer continue to get a good deal and be not overshadowed and overburden by the supermarket , which may act in uncompetitive way . he will know that the code need update ; I will ensure that this House be keep fully abreast of all development , and that he have input into it . I thank the Leader of the House and shadow Leader of the House for remind I to wish my mum a happy Mother ' s Day . she have a bit of a spidey sense , so I hope she will see this on telly . bidfood , one of the UK ' s large distributor , have suddenly derecognise the GMB trade union , which have cause lot of concern and worry among its employee . a good employer do not have anything to fear , or worry about , from a recognition agreement . have have a recognition agreement for 30 year , Bidford should not suddenly stop that arrangement . would the Leader of the House join I in urge Bidfood to sit at the table with the GMB and make sure that the relationship be re - establish ? that sound like quite a worrying development — bidfood break the recognition agreement with its trade union . my hon . friend be right to say that the evidence be clear that where recognition agreement exist , they work in the interest of the business and its employee . that be why we be strengthen measure on some these matter in the Employment Rights Bill , but I will ensure that Ministers take a look at this case . yesterday , in my trademark balanced and consensual way , I ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer if she would review her tax and spending plan . I give she three principal example of how she could raise substantially more revenue , which would , I hope , enable she not to cut disability benefit quite as much , or possibly even at all . she give I a response about the Trident nuclear deterrent . I know what my position be on that , and I know that it be at odd with that of most of my colleague in this Chamber , but so too do my constituent when they elect I — twice . can we have a debate in Government time about the minimum standard of response that elect member , whatever the colour of their rosette , can enjoy from Ministers in this Chamber ? the hon . Member have very politely raise this issue with I today , and I thank he for that . he will know — he be a regular attender at business question — that I take ministerial response very seriously , in that they should be forthcoming , open and timely , so I will certainly look into that issue . I think the hon . Member be raise with the Chancellor the question of whether we could raise more taxis from the wealthy . just for the record , I would say to he that we have be do that in a number of way , lot of which have be controversial , whether it be by reduce vat break for private school , increase taxis on those who own private jet , increase capital gain tax , take on the excess profit of the energy company and , of course , deal with non - dom tax status . all that have raise billion of pound for our public service , and for what we be do . we absolutely think that those with the broad shoulder should pay the high price . as he have request , I will make sure that he get forthcoming reply . last week and at the weekend , the opening ceremony , group game , semi - final and final of the kabaddi world cup be play at WV Active Aldersley in my constituency of Wolverhampton West . the rest of the game be play at other venue in the west midland . this be the first time ever that the kabaddi world cup have be hold outside Asia . will the Leader of the House please join I , my hon . friend the Member for Wolverhampton North East ( Mrs Brackenridge ) , who attend match with I , and my right hon . friend the Member for Wolverhampton South East ( Pat McFadden ) in congratulate all the organiser and the England team , who finish runner - up to India , on a wonderful , successful tournament ? it be testament to the rich cultural and sport diversity that we have in Wolverhampton and the west midland . I congratulate my hon . friend and the other Wolverhampton Members of Parliament on their support of the first kabaddi world cup game outside India . outside Asia . I be sorry — outside Asia . I thank the hon . member for correct I . it be a great achievement for Wolverhampton . I be really pleased that the Government ' s Commonwealth game legacy enhancement fund help secure some of the funding for the world cup game , and maybe next time England will do well than be the runner - up . the right hon . Lady may be pleased to hear that I will not mention rat and squeaky blinder today . I want to raise the problem of litter , which be an expensive nuisance . last week mark the start of the great british spring clean . will she join I in thank all the individual , community group and school around the country that take part in this initiative ? more importantly , many of they take part in such activity to help our community day in , day out , throughout the year . could we have a debate in Government time on tackle litter and fly - tipping , which blight so many of our community ? I absolutely join the right hon . Lady in congratulate the great british spring clean , which sound brilliant . it be probably need in the street of Birmingham right now ; I think that be where she be go to turn the question to . these kind of voluntary activity certainly can not make up for fail bin service , but they be a very important part of keep our street and community bright and clean . I recently have the pleasure of meet Lucas de Gouveia from Beckenham , who , at 14 year old , already represent GB at wheelchair tennis . Lucas contact I to ask for help in raise money for equipment and travel , so that he can participate in competition , which be more expensive for disability sport . I have write to a range of company on Lucas ' s behalf and hope to meet they soon , with Lucas . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate Lucas on his incredible achievement so far , and wish we well as we try to secure sponsorship for he ? absolutely . I wish Lucas all the good for this season , and for his future career . we have a great legacy in this country of produce some of the good wheelchair tennis player in the world . my hon . friend have give a really good advert and shout out today . I hope there be company watch this who might want to sponsor Lucas . addenbrooke ' s hospital in my constituency have launch a major expert clinical inquiry , follow worrying evidence that nine young child suffer bad outcome than expect follow surgery by a now suspend paediatric orthopaedic surgeon . I have write a letter to the hospital request that a 2016 report into the same area be send to the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care and I . will the Leader of the House help secure an opportunity for I to meet the Secretary of State to discuss that report and the new inquiry , so that we can ensure that it be open and transparent , and so that we can reassure patient , family and the staff of the organisation , and ensure that there be no retaliation against any whistleblower ? absolutely . I will ensure that the hon . Lady get the meeting and response she request . this sound like a very difficult and challenging case , but she be absolutely right that whistleblower and all those involve should be able to come forward in such inquiry , safe in the knowledge that they will be protect . that be the culture we need in our national health service , so that lesson can always be learn in an open and transparent way , and so that people be not blame incorrectly . I be proud to be in this House when Tony Blair and Gordon Brown establish the Department for International Development , and when they establish the drop the debt campaign . I be proud when the Leader of the House and I stand for election on a manifesto that commit we to restore the international aid budget to 0 . 7 % of GNI . may we please have a debate in Government time on how it might be possible to find a lost moral compass ? I think we all share pride in what the previous Labour Government do on debt reduction and aid for some of the poor country in the world . we be also proud of our commitment , which remain , to return our aid budget to 0 . 7 % of gdp . we have a statement to this House by the Prime Minister on the need for we to find extra funding for defence expenditure in this change , uncertain and insecure world , but we remain absolutely committed to return the aid budget to the 0 . 7 % level that we set . the Leader of the House will surely agree that when we send our armed force into dangerous situation , they deserve to be protect against vexatious litigious claim that be ultimately throw out , but only after great expense , distress and strain . there be a rather inconclusive exchange at Defence question on Monday about whether we should withdraw from the european convention on human right , or have a derogation for the propose force that may go on a peacekeeping mission in Ukraine . may we have a statement from a senior Law Officer confirm that it be perfectly possible to derogate from the ECHR for a specific mission like this , without in any way commit ourselves to stay in or leave the echr in the long term ? the right hon . Gentleman raise a really important matter and I be sorry that the answer that he or a colleague receive in Defence question on Monday be not satisfactory . I will look into that and make sure he get one . absolutely , this be a good matter to raise with a Law Officer . we have Attorney General question at the beginning of May , but in the meantime I will ensure he get a good reply about that important question . to have a phd in oncology , to be a gp , to work in a woman ' s prison — each would mark someone out as a remarkable person , but Dr Jenefer Llewelyn do all three . in her final email to I on 29 January , she say : " I implore you to keep up the fight for those with cholangiocarcinoma . " I regret to inform the House that Dr Llewelyn pass away on 15 March , leave behind her partner and three child , as well as the rest of those in my community who love , respect and rely on she . in Dr Llewelyn ' s name , I want to keep my promise to she and keep on fighting , so will the Leader of the House make time for a debate on the treatment of those with cholangiocarcinoma ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this matter , and I pay tribute to Dr Jenefer Llewelyn . she sound like a truly remarkable woman and I be really sorry to learn that she be no long with we , leave behind her partner and three child who I be sure be incredibly proud of the contribution she make across all the profession my hon . friend describe . he rightly raise the treatment and the supply chain for medicine . the Department of Health and Social Care be commit to make sure that people such as Dr Llewelyn get the treatment they need in a timely fashion , but I will make sure that a Minister respond to my hon . friend fully . some 172 of my constituent have be affect by the British Coal staff superannuation scheme scandal . in the autumn Budget , the UK Government release equivalent fund from the miner ' pension scheme , but do not do so for those in the BCSSS . the Government ' s failure to release frozen fund be cause immense hardship such as that cause to the Allied Steel and Wire worker . pensioner who have pay into the system for decade be now leave without the support they deserve . what assurance can the Leader of the House give I that the Government be work towards a fair resolution for those affect by this scandal ? can we please have a write statement on the issue ? I be sorry to hear of that case ; the hon . Lady raise an important issue . we have be take step to make sure there be a fair resolution in these case . I will ensure she get a full update on the matter . should it progress far , I will make sure that it be bring forward to the Floor of the House . last Saturday be the eighth anniversary of the sad passing of pc Keith Palmer , who die in the line of duty . he die secure this place and we should remember he . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] up and down the country , as we see last summer , police officer put themselves in harm ' s way securing and make safe the public . they often get injure in such event . if they be injure and force to retire early , they miss out on their long service duty medal . will the Leader of the House join I , or perhaps arrange a meeting for I with the appropriate Minister , to discuss the need for an injury retirement medal for officer who make that sacrifice to keep the public safe ? I thank my hon . friend for give we a moment to remember Keith Palmer . many of we be there that day , and we will never forget that he give his life protect those of we inside this place . my hon . friend be absolutely right — it sound like a really good idea to have an injury retirement medal for those who would otherwise have get a long service medal . I will ensure that the Home Secretary hear his call for that and that he get a good reply . the A77 and A75 road be critical to the people of south - west Scotland , but they be also critical to the UK , because they service the exceptionally busy ferry port of Cairnryan , which link we with our friend in Northern Ireland . the difficulty with these road be obvious if we ever travel they . there be another difficulty , however , which be that the Department for Transport here do not seem to think this have anything to do with it , and the Secretary of State for Scotland be too busy to meet I to discuss the issue . when the hon . member for Ayr , Carrick and Cumnock ( Elaine Stewart ) , who be in her place on the Government Benches , and I write to the Transport Secretary in Scotland , we receive a high - handed letter say that it would be inappropriate to meet we . what be inappropriate be the way devolution do not appear to be work . can we pluck from the logjam of Backbench Business Committee debate idea one on devolution and how it be fail ? I certainly agree with the hon . Gentleman that I do not think government in Scotland be work effectively in the interest of his constituent and other . I be sorry to hear about the difficulty he have have in raise the issue of the A77 road in his constituency . I will certainly ask the Scottish Minister to meet he to discuss that , so that we can get to the bottom of who be responsible and he can speak to those who be . as part of the East Ayrshire Youth Awards , pupil in Bellsbank primary school in my constituency win the intergenerational champion award . Ellie , Sienna and Lacie recently join the Bellsbank Project sewing group and make fouter blanket . they donate these to elderly resident suffer from dementia in a local nursing home . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate pupil from Bellsbank primary school on their award and their enthusiasm for learn from old people ? it be always brilliant to hear such story , and I join my hon . friend in congratulate Ellie , Sienna and Lacie on make fouter blanket for the elderly resident in her constituency . what a lovely story ; it be a reminder of the importance of these intergenerational programme . will the Leader of the House ask her colleague in the Department of Health and Social Care for a statement explain the rationale behind a decision last month to alter the eligibility criterion for additional compensation in the infected blood compensation scheme ? the special category mechanism be replace with the severe health condition award , which mean that the group of 916 people with hepatitis C , include some of my constituent , have be single out and be now prevent from receive the supplementary compensation they expect , and desperately need because they be so unwell . that be actually a matter for the Cabinet Office , rather than the Department of Health and Social Care , but I thank the hon . Lady for raise it . she be absolutely right ; the Government be commit to pay comprehensive compensation , not just to those infected but to those affect . we have set aside £ 11 . 8 billion to compensate those affect in full . I know of the issue she be talk about . we be determined to work closely with the Infected Blood Compensation Authority to ensure that everybody impact be aware and be part of those conversation . I will ensure she get a detailed response . it be no surprise that under a Labour Government hospital waiting list have fall for five month in a row . at Royal Stoke university hospital , which brilliantly serve my constituent in Stoke - on - Trent , Kidsgrove and beyond , there be now 3 , 311 few patient wait 18 week or long to be see compare with July last year . will the Leader of the House make time for a debate on reduce hospital waiting list , so that we can continue to sustain our progress in this area ? I know from talk to many colleague that they share my hon . friend ' s enthusiasm for the significant fall we have see in waiting list for the fifth month in a row . that be have a direct impact on his constituent and many other . we have also hit our pledge to deliver over 2 million more elective care appointment , which will far drive down waiting list . I will ensure the House be keep fully up to date on our progress on cut waiting time , as we say we would . rise — order . there be over 20 member on their foot , and we have around 20 minute leave , so please keep question and answer short . yesterday , the Office for student levy a wholly disproportionate fine on the University of Sussex after what look like a flawed and wasteful investigation at a time when the high education sector be in financial crisis . could the Leader of the House ask the Education Secretary whether she will respond to concern about why the OfS take so long to conduct its investigation , its behaviour , the cost it incur and the ramification of this very serious judgment ? I understand that this be a very serious judgment which will be of concern to the hon . Lady ' s constituent . I recognise that it have take some time and have lead to a significant fine for the university . we have have a few urgent question and statement on these broad matter in the House in recent month , but I will ensure that the Secretary of State respond to she today and come to the House with an update . last week , I be alert to the fact that one of my constituent , Owen Haggerty , a serve Royal Navy officer , have be detain in a jail in Bahrain . I immediately make contact with colleague in the relevant Departments , but much to my surprise , no one would engage with I to inform I of his welfare or the current status of his case . that be apparently because I do not have his explicit consent . he be sit in a jail in Bahrain . I have his mother ' s consent — she be also a constituent — and yet still nobody would speak to I . over a week later , the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office contact I this morning to say that it now have Owen ' s consent to talk to I about his case . I be very pleased that he have be grant a royal pardon by the King of Bahrain , but will the Leader of the House ensure that the fcdo work with I to arrange his urgent deportation back to this country , and that we avoid further delay in the future to mps secure access to the information they need to support their constituent ? I be sorry to hear of my hon . friend ' s experience with the fcdo , but I be pleased that Owen Haggerty receive that pardon this morning . she raise this matter with I a couple of day ago , which be why I raise it with the Foreign Office and it be in touch with she this morning . that be my role as Leader of the House when those conversation be not forthcoming . I can assure she that both the Ministry of Defence and the fcdo have be work tirelessly behind the scene to secure the pardon , and I will ensure that they continue to work with she and Owen ' s family to make sure he come back to the UK . in reply to an early question , the Leader of the House say that the BBC should serve all local community . it be around 18 month since we have a shake - up of BBC local radio , and the result be that it be much less local . could we have a debate in Government time on how the BBC could be hold to account for that and could provide local radio that be more local ? I know that the shake - up in local radio cause a great deal of concern to member across the House when it be propose and implement in the last Parliament ; many member raise their concern directly with the director general and other at the time . I be certainly happy to raise with the Department how that have go and what the feedback have be , and I will ensure that the hon . Gentleman and other member be keep inform . it will be four year this summer since Cumbria ' s Newton Rigg agricultural college close its door , and with it end the last course in hill farming available in England . give the importance of hill farming and upland land management in constituency such as mine , will the Leader of the House make time for a debate on the importance of land - base education and skill ? absolutely . I be sorry to hear that the hill farming course that my hon . friend describe be no long available ; that do not sound like a good development . as part of our programme of skill and education , I know that Ministers will be keen to discuss with she how we can ensure that agricultural education such as hill farming be at the centre of our thought . at pmq yesterday , we be join by my constituent Harry Brown and his family , who be in the Speaker ' s Gallery . Harry battle childhood cancer and overcome it . after pmq , I speak to he about his experience . he tell I how , throughout his treatment , he have to travel from the Royal Victoria infirmary in Newcastle to Great Ormond Street . will the Leader of the House provide Government time for a debate on how we can well support childhood cancer and treat people close to home ? I thank the hon . member for bring Harry Brown into Parliament yesterday and for talk to he at great length about his experience . he be absolutely right : we need a balance between ensure that we have specialist care , which be often centre in certain place , and ensure that there be care in the community . that be at the heart of what we be do to make sure that there be good preventative and community NHS care for all those who need it , all the time . the football pitch at Merrylee primary school in my constituency be use by hundred of kid every day , but it be in a terrible condition . it need to be redone , but the local SNP - run council be refuse to provide funding , which mean that local parent have to identify grant funding . will the Leader of the House join I in praise those local parent ? will she make time for a debate on community football pitch ? absolutely . I be sorry to hear that local people be have to fundraise for such an issue , but my hon . friend be right that football pitch be at the heart of our community . in England , we have a football Bill go through the House , which will support grassroots funding . the Scottish Government have a very good settlement with a big budget from this government , so hopefully they can use some of it to support his community well . can we have a debate on the late iteration of the crippling Irish sea border , namely the parcel border , which be due to become effective from 1 May ? it will mean that every parcel move from Great Britain to Northern Ireland , include personal parcel from a grandmother to a grandchild , be subject to the requirement of the EU custom border . it be particularly damaging for business , because business - to - business parcel can be send only if the sender belong to the trust trader scheme and pay the fee , and if they make a custom declaration , include on where the good come from and what they be . when can we discuss the fact that this United Kingdom be be partition and sever by an unnecessary border in the irish sea ? I thank the hon . and learn Member for his question . as he will be aware , we be commit to the Windsor framework and to work through the type of issue that he raise . those conversation be ongoing , and I will ensure that he be update on where they be up to before 1 May . I want to get all member in if I possibly can , so please be kind to one another . otherwise , some people will not get in . this Saturday , my constituent David Kiddie will be start his 300 km walk for two - year - old Lily . in late 2024 , Lily be diagnose with metachromatic leukodystrophy , a rare progressive degenerative disease that will sadly , in her family ' s word , slowly take she away . David be raise money to support Lily and her family on this difficult journey and raise awareness of MLD . will the Leader of the House join I in wish David well as he prepare to begin his walk this weekend ? I will join my hon . friend in support David ' s fundraise effort for Lily , who suffer from MLD ; I thank he for raise that today . hopefully , people will give to David ' s effort . in Nigeria , where religion shape many aspect of life , more than 3 . 5 million people have be violently displace from their home . religious leader have be kidnap and kill . community long to return to their land , rebuild their life and be protect from marginalisation by extremist group . they seek restoration of security and dignity , yet the camp in which they often live lack basic aid , supply and food , while those responsible for the atrocity continue to act with impunity . will the Leader of the House ask a Foreign Office Minister to set out what step the Government be take to support effort to end impunity for the perpetrator of these crime and say whether a reporting mechanism have be establish to ensure transparency in how UK aid money be be use in the Borno , Yobe and Adamawa state ? the hon . Member have attend every single business question that I have answer as Leader of the House . I congratulate he on his 70th birthday , which be on Tuesday — I think he deserve a special mention for that . yet again , I thank he for raise the important matter of freedom of religion and belief for all . I will ensure that the Foreign Office Minister have hear the hon . member ' s call today , and that he get a response . I be pleased to say that the excellent Dartford Sharks basketball club will be play in the Medway league man ' s cup final this weekend . however , like sport club all across the country , they have be find it increasingly difficult to access regular facility in which they can train and play , as school and college be unable to afford to open their door to host external sport club . will the Leader of the House join I in wish the Sharks luck in the final on Saturday ? will she make time for a debate on how we can increase access to sport facility in public building such as school ? I join my hon . friend in wish the Dartford Sharks all the very good . I think we have a debate come up soon on support such measure . the Government be commit to grassroots sport facility like the one he describe . I hope the Dartford Sharks will be able to make use of they soon . shamefully , the National Brewery Centre in Burton be close under the previous Conservative Administration and Member of Parliament , deprive we of an important link to our brewing history . the current Labour - lead East Staffordshire borough council be work at pace to reopen it , and I be keen to get Government support . give the importance of our brewery heritage to our national identity and local economy , will the Leader of the House grant a debate on support of our brewing heritage ? I know that brewing heritage be a particular interest for my hon . friend and his constituent . I think that he be go to invite I for a taste , but perhaps I can assist he in get the brewery reopen first , and then we can enjoy some of its fine fare . this week , the disappointing decision be make to increase toll on the Tamar crossing . although this essential infrastructure must remain operational , I be very concerned about the disproportionate financial burden that be be place on household and business in South East Cornwall . can my right hon . friend make time to discuss the vital issue of improve connectivity and support growth in the south - west as a priority ? will she ask the relevant Minister to work with I to ensure that rural community feel the benefit of Labour ' s commitment to an integrated transport network ? my hon . friend raise an excellent question . she be absolutely right that rural community such as those in South East Cornwall deserve to be well connect and integrate , and that should not come at a heavy cost to resident in her constituency . I will ensure that she get a full reply . this be something that I be sure the House will want to be update on . an issue of concern for constituent in Glasgow North and elsewhere be the unregulated use of off - road vehicle . anyone can easily purchase one without registration , and their subsequent use can lead to antisocial behaviour and in some place , include in my own constituency recently , to very tragic consequence . will the Leader of the House provide time to debate the regulation , include registration , of these off - road vehicle ? this matter get raise with I all the time , which be why one of my favourite piece of legislation be the Crime and Policing Bill , which will give police the power to seize such vehicle and crush they — crucially , get rid of they . my hon . friend be absolutely right that they be a blight on our community . we will have ample time to debate this important legislation in the come month . I be in touch with many parent and carer of child with special educational need and disability who have to battle too hard with Buckinghamshire council to get their education , health and care plan , their school place and their home - to - school transport . will the Leader of the House join I in recognise the extraordinary length to which parent have to go to support their SEND kid ? will she continue to ensure that this House prioritise the reform to the SEND system that be desperately need ? my hon . friend be right that family with child with SEND face real barrier to get the support that they need . we have a broken system that do not give great outcome or work for family . we be look at reform SEND , and I will ensure that she and the House be keep update . my constituent Tia Brown have be refuse vital treatment for premature ovarian insufficiency , a serious condition that affect one in 100 woman under 40 in the UK , despite her doctor recommend that she be give the treatment and it be freely available in Wales . POI cause early ovarian failure , which increase the risk of serious health issue . as a mother of twin , Tia be advocate for her health and her family ' s future , but also for all the woman need access to this critical treatment . will the Leader of the House support a debate on premature ovarian insufficiency and the need for access to treatment across the UK ? the Government be clear that it be not acceptable that my hon . friend ' s constituent have not be able to get the care and support that she need to deal with premature ovarian insufficiency . my hon . friend have raise this matter on the Floor of the House ; I will ensure that this particular case be look at , but the wide issue that he have raise be a matter of concern for Ministers . could the Leader of the House make time for a debate about local sporting excellence , to celebrate REN96 swimming club in my constituency , which win 73 medal in one weekend , GHA rugby in Giffnock , which win the championship , and the young athlete of Giffnock north athletic club , who come home with a haul of medal and personal best ? will she join I in thank the army of volunteer behind that success not just in my constituency but right across the country ? absolutely . I will not repeat all the club that my hon . Friend mention , but he be right that grassroots sport club be at the heart of our community . in nearly all case they be run by fantastic volunteer who give their life to they . they really do provide great opportunity for young people and other to keep fit and get together for these activity . this past month , member of the Valley Thai boxing club in Whitworth , Rochdale , have be represent team GB in Bangkok in the world Muay Thai boxing championship . they have just come back with a record number of medal : eight gold , three silver and four bronze , include a bronze for my constituent Lynette Cook ' s son Keaton . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate Keaton and all the Team GB member on represent our country in one of Britain ' s fast grow sport ? I join my hon . friend in congratulate Valley Thai boxing club and its fantastic haul of medal . it be great to highlight that grow sport in his constituency to a wide audience . Ben and Melanie have pay thousand over the odd for their energy bill because their energy provider fail to provide accurate billing on their prepayment meter and wipe thousand in credit from their account . that energy provider have now miss nine appointment that it schedule with Ben and Mel . will the Leader of the House support a debate on how Ofgem can improve service standard and hold energy company to account when they fail my constituent ? I be really sorry to hear of the experience of Ben and Melanie . I hope that the energy provider that he highlight have hear this case and will quickly sort it out . the Government be work with Ofgem to reinforce our expectation that if rule be not comply with , it will enforce they . I will ensure that minister have hear that . the Terminally Ill adult ( end of Life ) Bill have be substantially change in Committee . can the Leader of the House give an update on when the House may see the impact assessment for that Bill ? can she give an assurance that sufficient time will be available for member to consider that analysis before we get to the Bill ' s remain stage ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that important matter for many colleague across the House . he will be aware that the Bill ' s Committee stage end this week . it have be considerably amend : I think that the Committee accept more than 100 amendment from those on both side of the debate . the Government be commit to ensure that the impact assessment be available for member in good time before Report . I be sure that he will recognise that that will be a challenge , give how much the Bill have be amend , but we will do our very good to ensure that member have ample time to look at it . I be thrill to be at Vitality stadium to see AFC Bournemouth woman ' s team crown the fa woman ' s national league division 1 south west champion . it add to the success of Queens Park lady under - 12s , who beat all the boy in its first season to win the league . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate those two team ? might she also wish the good of luck to the man ' s team as they face Manchester City in the FA cup on Sunday ? I will not go that far , because hopefully I will be spend Mothering Sunday watch City win and progress to the next round , but I certainly join he in congratulate the woman ' s football team in his constituency on beat the boy and win the tournament . my constituent Darren recently share the harrowing experience of his father Les , who go to A & E follow a fall . an ambulance be call and they be tell that it would take an hour to arrive . unfortunately , it take six and a half hour . this be not an isolated incident , as such delay be become all too common across the country . will the Leader of the House grant a debate in Government time to discuss ambulance waiting list across the Black Country and what more can be do to ensure that no community be leave behind when it come to emergency care ? I be really sorry to hear about what happen to Darren ' s father Les . the wait time that they endure be frankly unacceptable . the ambulance and emergency care wait time that my hon . friend describe be a symptom of the chronic state of our national health service , which we and the country inherit . we be determined to turn that around . as she rightly say , unfortunately , emergency care be face a great number of challenge . I will ensure that the Minister have hear her question . I thank everyone for keep their question short . I be sure that we will get everybody in . I will be quick , Madam Deputy Speaker . one of my constituent in Brownsover have be flood several time over the past 10 year from leak in Severn Trent pipe . the company make good the damage , but do the Leader of the House agree that that be the bare minimum ? the company should compensate for emotional harm — which I see for myself on Saturday — and also consider buy home at market rate when people can not sell , and divert more resource away from shareholder dividend and towards fix the infrastructure for the long term , so that my constituent feel the benefit of first - world amenity such as proper water infrastructure . will she consider time for a debate on this ? absolutely . water company and infrastructure in this country have not be work and have not be fit for purpose for a long time . we have pass the Water ( Special Measures ) Act 2025 , which will begin to turn this around . further measure will come forward as we look more broadly at the water company . since I last raise in this Chamber the negative impact of short - term let in my constituency , Central London Forward have bring out new research estimate that 17 , 000 property in my constituency be lose to short - term let . it believe that a significant proportion of those be the result of individual owner own up to 21 property themselves . I thank the Leader of the House for her previous comment . do she recognise the case I be make that the Cities of London and Westminster should be a pilot in the much - need forthcoming Government registration scheme ? absolutely . I know of these issue very well from my own constituency . as my hon . Friend say , we be introduce the short - term let registration scheme and abolish the furnished holiday let tax regime to remove some tax incentive . from April , council can opt to charge a council tax premium of up to 100 % on second home . I will ensure that minister hear her plea to be part of that registration scheme . my remarkable constituent Pat Smith have dedicate 60 year of his life to coach basketball , football and other sport , include 37 year lead the Hatfield Fliers basketball club . will the Leader of the House join I in thank Pat for his exceptional service and for be an absolutely brilliant role model to many generation , and wish he a happy and fulfilling retirement ? I join my hon . friend in congratulate Pat and wish he a fantastic and happy retirement . he deserve a good pat on the back . last weekend , in my constituency of Stafford , Eccleshall and the village , I hold a SEND forum for parent , carer , professional and teacher . I hear a range of worrying and heartfelt story , and emerge from all of they be real concern about how Conservative - lead Staffordshire county council communicate with the parent of SEND child . with that in mind , will the Leader of the House consent to a debate on guideline for communicate with parent of SEND child , to ensure that communication be not adversarial , challenging and humiliating for they ? I be really sorry to hear that Staffordshire county council have fall short in its communication and dealing with family and parent of those with SEND . this be always a difficult , challenging time for family , so council should be much more sensitive about how they deal with the barrier that people face . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . yesterday , the Chancellor incorrectly state that , on Second Reading , Green party mps " vote against the Planning and Infrastructure Bill " — [ Official Report , 26 March 2025 ; Vol . 764 , c . 971 . ] in fact , none of we do that . how can the Chancellor ' s inaccurate statement be correct on the record , give that she have inadvertently misrepresent the voting record of other hon . member ? I thank the hon . member for give notice of her point of order . the Chair be not responsible for the content of Ministers ' contribution , but I be sure that the hon . member ' s concern have be hear on the Government Benches , and it be now on the record . if an error have be make in this instance , I be sure that the Chancellor will seek to correct it as quickly as possible . Backbench Business St Patrick ' s Day and Northern Irish Affairs I beg to move , that this House have consider St Patrick ' s day 2025 and Northern Irish affair . I be grateful to all colleague who sponsor the debate application and to the Backbench Business Committee for grant we time on the Floor of the Chamber . the cross - party support for the debate be testament to the close bond between the UK and Ireland and the House ' s acknowledgment of Northern Ireland ' s place in the United Kingdom . I refer hon . member to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I serve on the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee , ably chair by my hon . friend the Member for Gower ( Tonia Antoniazzi ) , and I be particularly grateful to the team of Stephen , Kay , Karen , Joe and Chloe who support the Committee ' s work — they be all excellent people . I also chair the all - party parliamentary group on Ireland and the Irish in Britain . the issue before the House this afternoon be close to my heart . as anyone who know I will say , I have always have a great love and affinity for the good people of Northern Ireland , and indeed the Republic of Ireland , as well as what could be describe as a healthy appreciation for St Patrick ' s day this year and all year . we be join in the Gallery by former deputy mayor Councillor Liz McShane , a councillor in Folkestone and Hythe and a North Down native . we be to be join by Mr Michael Lonergan , the political supremo at the irish embassy , but , alas , I think he be lunch . Michael have do more for british - irish relation in recent year than anyone else I know . we will miss he when he return home later this year . I have not meet anybody who can so easily have breakfast with the DUP , morning tea with Sinn F é in , lunch with the Liberals , afternoon tea with the Tories , pre - dinner drink with the sdlp and the Ulster Unionists , and then dinner with Labour , and then get up and do it all again the next day . I congratulate the hon . Gentleman — my almost neighbour — on secure the debate . I apologise , as I can not contribute fully to this debate as I have to go and prepare for the next debate , but I want to join he in his tribute to Michael . I have just see Michael in Portcullis House , so I know that he be in the building , and I be sure that he will be in the Gallery at some point soon . he have be an absolute stalwart . as vice - chair of the british - Irish Parliamentary Assembly and previously its co - chair , I know just how much work Michael do to promote UK - irish relation . we will miss he very much . I be grateful to the right hon . Lady , who be a near neighbour and a former Secretary of State for Northern Ireland , both for her interest in and commitment to northern irish affair and for her full and appropriate tribute to Michael . I thank she for make it . for nation across the globe , St Patrick ' s day be a day of celebration , acknowledgment and togetherness , and a day — it rather feel like a month nowadays — when the world can be describe in two way : those who be irish and northern Irish , and those who wish they be . the noble Lord , Lord Brennan , a man bear to an irish father and a Welsh mother , tell I last night that as St David ' s day be 1 March , he be not prepared to concede a month to celebrate St Patrick ' s day unless it start around 8 March . I tell he that as long as St George ' s day be safe in April , I be happy to let the debate go on . St Patrick ' s day ' s global popularity be perhaps most obvious in the city of Chicago , which famously dye its river green every year to mark this important milestone . while I appreciate the sentiment , I be sure that we have all have enough of the river and lake in our country — whether the Thames outside this place or Lough Neagh — turn the most unusual of colour . much of this be close to home . I be proud of my own family root in Northern Ireland . my late grandmother ' s father be of good , solid County Down stock . I note the passing of his last remain child , my great - aunt Margaret Wilson , who die at the grand old age of 105 last week . the blend of Irish and English be clearly a recipe for a good , long life . my own root park to one side , one of the good decision I ever make — other than be bear to a good Staffordshire woman in my mother , over which I have little influence — be to marry my brilliant , wonderful wife . I have little influence in that , either — she have to say yes . my wife be a woman of and from Northern Ireland but who call the ancient and loyal borough of Newcastle - under - Lyme home . my neighbouring constituency have a small irish community now , but for some time in the 19th century Stafford be a source of refuge to a number of irish national who work in the area . while some move on , a significant number stay and put down root in Staffordshire . with that in mind , do my hon . friend agree that the contribution of the irish community past and present have really enrich Staffordshire ' s cultural and economic life ? I thank my neighbour , in whose constituency my mother be bear , for her timely and important intervention . I could not agree more . many people from the island of Ireland move to Newcastle - under - Lyme , to Staffordshire , as my hon . Friend say , and to coalfield community up and down our country to work in our mine and in our metal manufacturing industry , settle with their family and bring with they a sense of culture , new idea and , of course , great craic . but many irish woman come to England in particular to work in our national health service . I want to acknowledge Louise Ryan , who , alongside Gr á inne McPolin and Neha Doshi , have write a wonderful book entitle " Irish Nurses in the NHS " , which I read over the weekend , and which give such voice to the contribution of irish nurse in our beloved national health service . many business and organisation in my constituency would not exist without people from the island of Ireland , and many of my constituent — some of my staff include — be proud to have strong irish root . I think of people like Rosi Monkman , who work at Keele University and live in the Westlands , and my labour predecessor , the former Member of Parliament , Paul Farrelly . I be out door - knock in Clayton the other day when in quick succession I meet Shannon , Maura , and then , of course , the wonderful Bob Bell and many more . I think of the irish staff in this House , from Catherine Jackson , the restaurant manager , to the lovely Betty Thompson in the Terrace cafeteria downstairs : strong irish woman keep this place go . Irish Heritage describe the contribution of the Irish to cultural life in the United Kingdom as incalculable . the cultural contribution of both the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland be beyond doubt . my hon . friend be right to highlight the unique contribution that the irish diaspora have make to cultural life in the UK . for 30 year , the Irish Cultural Centre in Hammersmith have serve the population of west London and far beyond . under its current team of centre director William Foote , culture director Ros Scanlon and chairman Peter Power - Hynes , it have go from strength to strength in its cultural , community and education programme . I count myself lucky as a Member with one of the large irish population to represent such an outstanding venue for the good of irish culture . my hon . friend and , of course , all hon . member be welcome there at all time . I have be to Hammersmith ' s Irish Cultural Centre many time . my hon . friend speak rightly of the contribution that it make to people of irish descent not just in London but up and down the country . there be also irish centre in Birmingham , Manchester and other part of the United Kingdom . he make a good point , and I congratulate all those at that centre on the work they do . in Northern Ireland we have great wordsmith such as the poet Seamus Heaney , the playwright Brian Friel , and Anna Burns , the author of " Milkman " . all of they have achieve international acclaim in both the English and irish language . we also have musician such as Van Morrison — although he be a little bit mean to my friend the hon . member for South Antrim ( Robin Swann ) , who have the pleasure of represent the community that my wife be bear in and where my parent - in - law live — and , notably , the Ulster - Scots folk music movement , who have have real popularity right across the United Kingdom and indeed the world . of course , much - love tv show such as Channel 4 ' s " Derry Girls " and even " Game of Thrones " owe Northern Ireland a great deal . anyone who have be to Northern Ireland will have see its natural beauty up close . it be the home of the Giant ' s Causeway , the Ring of Gullion , Slieve Donard , which tower over Newcastle , County Down — an act of solidarity with God ' s own constituency of Newcastle - under - Lyme . I must also mention the island of Ireland ' s contribution to one of our most beloved institution : the great british pub . from Ballycastle to Bletchley , Coalisland to Camden , Fermanagh to Falkirk , Portballintrae in the constituency of the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim ( Jim Allister ) to Pembrokeshire , templepatrick to Tyneside , Ballybeen to Golders Green and everywhere in between , who do not like a good pint ? whether it be a pint of Guinness , Guinness 0 . 0 or Guinness Clear — otherwise know as water — the approach and culture have deeply influence our pub , and we be all the well for it . pub across Newcastle - under - Lyme , whether it be the Westbury Tavern in Westbury Park , the Potters Wheel just up from Bradwell Lodge , the Sneyd Arms in town where I be last Saturday have a cold drink or the Hand and Trumpet in Wrinehill , pub across my part of the world , as I know in many other , know how to pour a good pint of Guinness . it be in Belfast shipyard and particularly at Harland & Wolff where many vessel for the Royal Navy and the merchant fleet be build , include the famous HMS Belfast . in both world war , irish volunteer fight in the British Army , the Royal Air Force and the Royal Navy . man and woman from across the island of Ireland help build the early tunnel for the London underground , as well as more modern work , such as the Victoria line , which get I from Euston station on a Monday morning to this place . many irish people continue to move to our United Kingdom to work in our national health service , education system and , more widely , our public service . I take this moment to pay tribute to they for their hard work and their contribution to our country . do my hon . friend want to give way ? rise — rise — I will take Pembrokeshire first . as my hon . friend know , I represent the constituency of Mid and South Pembrokeshire , which be close to Dublin than it be to London . do he agree about the importance of maintain and enhance trade link ? he will be aware of the ferry from Pembroke Dock in my constituency to the harbour of Rosslare and the importance of enhance those trade link to achieve the Government ' s mission of economic growth . I congratulate my hon . friend and his wife on the imminent arrival of their first child in the come day . we all wish he and Poppy well . he make an important point . internal trade within our United Kingdom and with our close neighbour , the Republic of Ireland , would and do benefit all of we . the strong that is , the well for my constituent and his . I be proud to be the son of a tipperary man and to be one of a very large irish family who come over to the UK in the 1950 to provide an addition to our economy , tear down some of the building that be bomb in the war and help to rebuild Britain , add to that contribution that my hon . friend talk about , with many irish people work in the national health service right now . as irish people , we know the pain and suffering of irish football . one of my formative experience be see the 1994 World cup effort , and I still have not quite recover from that . will my hon . friend join I in wish the irish football team every success in the future and in commend 8 Sharp , an irish and celtic music band base in Bournemouth that provide fantastic music and cultural event across Bournemouth , Christchurch and Poole ? my hon . friend be wear the England colour , so I will happily send good wish to the irish football team so long as England be not on the pitch . as we give thank to those who make a contribution to our country , it be only right that we acknowledge John " Paddy " Hemingway , a pilot in the battle of Britain who recently pass away at the age of 105 . Mr Hemingway be a volunteer who join the RAF and fly spitfire in the battle of Britain , not because of where he be from but because of the tie , whether geographical , cultural or historic , that bind we together . those value , now share , be more important than ever . Mr Hemingway be one of 36 irish pilot who fight in the battle of Britain , include Wing Commander Brendan " Paddy " Finucane , who be one of the RAF ' s most successful fighter ace in the war . they be a reminder to we that Britain do not stand alone against fascism as it rise on the european continent throughout the war . despite our often complicated shared history , it be a share history none the less ; one that have see the fate of all the people who live across these island , whether in the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland or in the Republic of Ireland , bind together time and again . it would not be right to ignore the history of these island in a debate such as this . nobody want to dwell on the past ; we must be honest , though , that war , death and division play a significant role in the story of british - irish relation . how lucky be we , however , that time have change ? Northern Ireland , for all its political imperfection — who be we to pass comment on other people ' s jurisdiction , politically speak — now have a functioning devolve Government lead by the First Minister , Michelle o ' Neill , and the Deputy First Minister , Emma Little - Pengelly . it have access to the UK internal market and to the European Union . it be on the tourist hit list and have make history . I want to acknowledge the very strong woman from both unionist and nationalist tradition who politically have show real leadership . I think of my hon . friend the Member for Belfast South and Mid Down ( Claire Hanna ) , Baroness Ritchie and Lady Hermon , formerly of this parish , alongside the former First Minister , Baroness Foster . I know that my mother - in - law , if she be watch — she may be — would be very clear that you should never mess with a woman from anywhere on the island of Ireland . political relation between Ireland and the United Kingdom have never be strong , and that be evident in Dublin early this week , where the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee meet a range of stakeholder , from former President Mary McAleese and her husband , Dr Martin McAleese , to former Taoisigh Leo Varadkar and Bertie Ahern . it be clear that tie east and west between Dublin and London be well and strong , and my right hon . friend the Prime Minister deserve much praise for his commitment to the british - irish relationship , include host the first Saint Patrick ' s day reception at Downing Street just last week . as we talk about british - irish relation , I acknowledge the british ambassador in Dublin , Paul Johnston , and his wife Nicola . Paul will return home later this year as his posting come to an end and it be only fitting that the House acknowledge his service to our national interest . today ' s debate be not about the constitution or border , or just to discuss the party political nature of , and situation in , Northern Ireland . however , we can not forget one of the great political development in our shared history : the Good Friday agreement . a peace deal like no other , it remain the gold standard in diplomacy and one of the most significant peace process in modern european history . after those terrible decade of tragedy and conflict , we now have peace on these island because all side come together , they compromise and they negotiate . there lie a lesson for all of we . as the Prime Minister say on his first visit to Dublin since the election , the relationship between our two country " have never reach its full potential " . it be time to unlock that potential . this new era of co - operation and friendship be all the more critical at a time when we must stand together with our close ally who share our value . I will quote Mr Hemingway on what he feel be his secret to achieve a long life ; a secret I think my wife and some of the member of this House might enjoy . he say : " I can ' t say don ' t drink … I can ' t say don ' t fly aeroplane . I can ' t say don ' t shoot and get shoot at – I ' ve do everything , and I ' m an Irishman . the only advice I can give be to be irish . " in this case , I think we can apply " northern Irish " , " british " and everything in between too . since my election as the Member of Parliament for Newcastle - under - Lyme , I have make clear my personal affection for the royal family and particularly for her late Majesty Queen Elizabeth II . on her first historic visit to the Republic of Ireland , at the state banquet in Dublin castle , she begin her speech with the word " a Uachtar á in , agus a chairde " — President and friend . the british head of state stand in Dublin speak word in Irish show how much time have change . her late Majesty go on to say : " many british family have member who live in this country , as many irish family have close relative in the United Kingdom . these family share the two island ; they have visit each other and have come home to each other over the year . they be the ordinary people who yearn for the peace and understanding we now have between our two nation and between the community within those two nation ; a live testament to how much in common we have . these tie of family , friendship and affection be our most precious resource . they be the lifeblood of the partnership across these island , a golden thread that run through all our joint success so far , and all we will go on to achieve . " for all the challenge that remain , for all that we have yet to do , " family , friendship and affection " , as her late Majesty put it , will see we through . Happy Saint Patrick ' s day , Madam Deputy Speaker . here ' s to Northern Ireland and to the bond of friendship between the Republic of Ireland and our United Kingdom . I thank the hon . member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) for secure this debate . I feel I must check his entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , though , to see whether he be on the board of Irish Tourism or Tourism NI . it be a marvellous tour we have of so many wonderful place in Ireland . I want to identify with all the sentiment that the hon . Gentleman express . I apologise for miss the start of his speech , but I think he be refer to Michael from the irish embassy . would that be correct ? indicate assent . I endorse the hon . Gentleman ' s remark and pay tribute to all the embassy staff here in London . I rise as a proud Irishman to speak in this debate celebrate the life and legacy of the late fourth or fifth - century man we know as St Patrick . but be aware that there may have be a number of people from the so - call dark age who might have at least contribute to the legacy we now know . there be absolutely no doubt that it be irish monk and missionary who throughout that period keep Christianity alive , spread the good news and teach so much to so many through early version of what we now call university . the effort of St Patrick ' s disciple , maybe contemporary , be feel to this day . Columba and Drostan have such an influence in Scotland , and my own church be name for St Drostan , while another local church celebrate Columba . member will have hear of the book of Kells , but they may not have hear of the book of Deer — a handwritten copy of the Gospels write a little later . it be now in Cambridge University library , but it be write in the north - east of Scotland in a local village . I be raise within sight of the slope of Slemish in County Antrim where , accord to his own account , Patrick spend six year as a shepherd have be kidnap by irish pirate . they allegedly come from Dalriada , a scottish kingdom rule by the McDonnell clan . there be much uncertainty about where Patrick be bear . be he roman ? be he Welsh ? who know and , to be honest , do it really matter ? Patrick apparently escape back home , and year later , now as a cleric , dream that the people of Ireland be call he to return and walk among they . there be many story about his life in Ireland . the one that always appeal to I be how he break the law by light a pyre on the slope of the Hill of Tara in County Meath — a privilege reserve to the high king of Tara at the time , as a fire on that spot could be see for many mile and many county across Ireland . but so impressed be say king by St Patrick that he allegedly convert on the spot . Patrick be credit with teach Christianity to the irish people use the shamrock , with fast for 40 day on top of Croagh Patrick in County Mayo , thus earn the right to judge the Irish at the end of time on the day of judgment . I think the hon . member for Newcastle - under - Lyme may well have secure his future . Patrick ' s legacy require little acknowledgment from I other than to credit the eloquent speech of other hon . member speak today , so in my brief contribution I will recall some personal St Patrick ' s day memorie from the past 67 year . it be always a day on which one be release from the usual Lenten pledge , so as child we fog the chocolate and sweet into we so hard that we almost make ourselves sick . later , it become a day on which we would make the pilgrimage to Dublin , not necessarily for the St Patrick ' s day parade but for the all - Ireland club championship final in football and hurling , which be play at Croke Park . I be pleased to say that my own local hurl team , the Cuchullains of Dunloy , contest that final on no few than five occasion ; an amazing feat for a small village in north Antrim . on other occasion I attend the school ' rugby cup final at Ravenhill — a tradition still carry on to this day on St Patrick ' s day , so for I , as Father Ted would have say , that would be an ecumenical matter . there be many other memorable moment on this day , but a special one be sit in a bar in Bariloche in Argentina listen on the radio to a live performance by my singer - songwriter daughter Aislinn at the London Irish Centre in Camden several thousand mile away . I say to hon . member : let we recognise and celebrate the life , legend and legacy of the man , or man , we call St Patrick — not least because it mean so much to the more than half a million people who say in the last census that they be irish and live on this island . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) on secure this important debate . this be , if I may say so to new colleague , always a good debate : I enjoy last year ' s debate celebrate St Patrick ' s day and our wide irish diaspora . as the Member of Parliament for Luton South and South Bedfordshire , I be always pleased to recognise and celebrate the strong and proud irish community in my constituency . Luton be a diverse and vibrant town make up of individual with global tie , and the irish connection that many hold be an intrinsic part of that social fabric . from support the economic growth of our town by work in Luton ' s manufacturing industry , and by build home , church and school , to their contribution to art and culture , the irish diaspora in Luton have contribute an immense amount and continue to do so . the post - world war two boom create a huge period of regeneration and building in the UK . irish immigrant come in their thousand to work on motorway construction and in manufacturing job . Luton be no exception , and from 1951 to 1961 , our irish population more than triple from 2 , 000 to over 7 , 000 . that be primarily due to increase economic opportunity in the town , with Vauxhall Motors expand in the 1950 and create thousand more job . at one stage , Vauxhall Motors become the single large employer in the town , employ 22 , 000 people across Luton and Dunstable by the 1960 . I thank all the worker at Vauxhall in Luton ; the final vehicle come off the production line this week , due to the sad closure of the plant . there be further job opportunity across Luton at Electrolux , manufacture household appliance , and at Skefko , a ball - bear manufacturer . our irish population be a core part of our workforce and play a key role in workplace union . I pay tribute to the local trade union representative of irish descent in my constituency , who continue to advocate for fair pay and working condition . there be also significant employment opportunity for irish woman . with the creation of the NHS in 1948 , many irish woman come to Luton to work at the Luton and Dunstable hospital , fulfil the need for more nurse as Luton ' s population grow . indeed , the recently release Irish Times bestseller " Irish Nurses in the NHS : an oral history " feature the story of three woman from our local irish community : Betty Halfpenny and Roseanna Anderson , who come to the UK to be nurse , and Rosaleen Burke , a radiographer who work at the L & D hospital for over 50 year . I be pleased to attend the book launch at the irish embassy in London in February , and to celebrate the contribution those woman make to our town , and to the healthcare system more widely . as the Luton Irish community grow , so do its last mark on our town ' s landscape , social scene and culture . in my constituency , the building of the Holy Ghost , St Margaret and Sacred Heart church , to name just some of the catholic church in our town , highlight the irish community ' s desire to contribute something last to Luton . that be follow by the building of the associate school , which provide education for pupil age 5 to 18 . they include Cardinal Newman high school , in the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Luton North ( Sarah Owen ) , which open in 1968 and pride itself on be " a school of the community build by the community . " today , these church , school and social space continue to be hub at the heart of the community for the Luton Irish . when it come to the influence of irish organisation , I can not forget the vital role play by the Luton Irish Forum , a charity promote irish identity , culture and heritage . it also provide a range of support and wellbee service to improve the quality of life for the irish community and the wide population of Luton . that include welfare support , debt advice and housing . it also hold mother and toddler group , tea and chat session , art and game club , and irish dance and music club . the Luton Irish Forum also recognise the economic contribution of our irish community . in November , it hold its first successful irish business brunch , bring together current and long - stand irish business , supporter and other local connection to highlight the opportunity for business within the forum and its extended network . as our Labour Government focus on our mission for growth , such network play a vital role locally , and I look forward to see our Luton economy thrive in year to come . of course , the Luton Irish Forum play a key role in Luton ' s annual St Patrick ' s day festival , which be hugely impressive , if I do say so myself . I be delighted to join in the 26th annual celebration early this month , and enjoy myself thoroughly . it be an amazing parade , with flag from every county of the emerald isle proudly on display . in true Luton style , the parade be lead by a mash - up of Bhangra drum and irish music and dancing . it be a beautiful representation of everything that Luton be about , and a come together in celebration of all culture . of course , we can not forget St Brigid , the female patron saint of Ireland . in Luton , we celebrate she annually too : the Luton Irish Forum hold an afternoon tea and celebrate the irish woman in our community . this year , the theme be irish wedding tradition , include the role of matchmaker , the Claddagh ring , and the bride ' s handkerchief be keep for her first child ' s christen bonnet . I will end as I begin , by thank our irish community in Luton for their enormous contribution to the local economy and their important work to enrich our community and ensure that the irish connection in Luton remain strong from generation to generation . the connection between Luton and the island of Ireland continue . in the past , the main transport link may well have be the ferry , but nowadays London Luton airport enable that endure connection to remain strong . it tie our first , second , third and even fourth generation of Irish Lutonians back to Dublin , Cork , Knock , Kerry and Belfast , to name just a few place , and allow family tie and cultural influence to transcend distance . our town be all the well for it . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Luton South and South Bedfordshire ( Rachel Hopkins ) , who speak so eloquently and passionately about the contribution of the irish diaspora , particularly in Luton South and South Bedfordshire — a lot of south be be speak about today . we be also talk about the south of Ireland and its contribution to the success of our country , the United Kingdom . it be a pleasure to take part in the debate . I thank the hon . member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) for secure a debate on St Patrick ' s day and Northern Irish affair . I commend he for his year of support for british - irish relation . I remember that when he be mayor of Haringey , he fly the irish flag for St Patrick ' s day and celebrate that important occasion in the borough , and I thank he for that . St Patrick ' s day be a great feast day when we come together as one great british family to celebrate Saint Patrick , the patron saint of the island of Ireland — he be share by Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland . that be an important point to make , because some people think that St Patrick be the patron saint purely of the Republic of Ireland , but as my cross of St Patrick cufflink show , he be very much the patron saint of Northern Ireland , too . I be also pleased to say that St Patrick ' s day be my birthday , so it be a special day for I . my family connection with Ireland run deep on my mother ' s side : my great - grandparent be Dempseys and o ' Learys . although I be very english , I be proud of my irish ancestry . as many of our Ulster Members know , St Patrick be a great saint whom we should aim to emulate . fundamentally , this day remind we of a figure who champion the christian faith — a steadfast believer who go from the mainland to Ireland in order to cure the soul of native . in his mission , he be a man of solemn sincerity , keep his promise to God to convert the non - believer . he be also clearly a man of great forgiveness and reconciliation , because early in his life , he have be enslave by the Irish , but he later go there with the mission of save their soul for eternity . we can learn a great deal from the life of St Patrick . there be many thing that we as a nation could do to mark this important day and give it the gravita it deserve . I strongly submit that St Patrick ' s day should be a national bank holiday , alongside all the other feast day of our kingdom ' s patron saint — St George ' s day on 23 April , St David ' s day on 1 March and St Andrew ' s day on 30 November . not only would that be firmly in line with the position of Anglicanism as the unchallenged state religion , but it would reinforce the importance of all four corner of our nation . so , too , would the resurrection of the order of St Patrick , which be shamefully allow to fall into abeyance many decade ago but remain a sovereign order of the United Kingdom . I hope that the Minister will give that idea serious consideration . it would be wonderful if the royal order of St Patrick be restore . should his Majesty decide to restore it for use in the United Kingdom , I be sure that many people would be worthy of it , include , more widely , irish people who have contribute to relation between our two nation . the feast day of St Patrick be not just about dress in green , don shamrock and drink Guinness ; feast day be about how we value the native people of these island , and their heritage , tradition and culture . that must be reflect in all our great british tradition under one king and one flag . indeed , it be my view that the irish , Ulster - Scots and Anglo - Irish be very much part of our family within the great British Isles . all the people of these island be deeply intertwine in every area of life . from blood and history to literature and music — and , of course , sport — we be fundamentally inseparable and should not only embrace our historical connection , but enhance it now and in future . to that end , I be immensely proud to have chair the british - Irish Parliamentary Assembly from 2016 to 2022 , when I be succeed by my right hon . friend the Member for Staffordshire Moorlands ( Dame Karen Bradley ) — we work together on that for many year . I be pleased to have recently be reappointe to BIPA . its role be fundamental to advance our share economic , cultural and political prosperity , and I will continue to work with colleague from all legislature and executive throughout british - Irish Parliamentary Assembly area to strengthen bond between the inseparable nation and territory of the British Isles — England , Scotland , Northern Ireland , Wales , the Isle of Man , the Bailiwick of Jersey and the Bailiwick of Guernsey — not forget Alderney and Sark . today , we must focus more on bring together the four home nation of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , and on reverse the constitutional backsliding in the british internal market . I have great sympathy with the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim ( Jim Allister ) when it come to that area of policy . despite that , the inseparability of the mainland and Northern Ireland remain clear in so many facet of national life : blood , culture and King , to name but a few . I commend their Majesties the King and Queen for their outstandingly successful visit to Ulster recently . I praise the good people of Northern Ireland for provide such a heartening welcome and demonstration of local pride . I be sure that their Majesties will treasure those memory for year to come . the Crown have also receive a wonderful reception in the Republic of Ireland in recent year . her late Majesty Queen Elizabeth II most notably visit Dublin for a state visit in 2011 and speak Irish to the assemble dignitary . that be a characteristic example not only of her exemplary good humour and reconciliatory nature , but also of the warmth and good will between all our people . the Republic of Ireland be our friend , but we can be much close and fully realise that we be , in all sphere of national operation , one family who share a unique group of island . indeed , Ireland could do much more work , alongside her british brother and loyal northern neighbour , in recognise that share heritage and advance the share value and goal on the global stage , and emulate country such as Australia , Canada and New Zealand . I hope that one day , perhaps soon , the people of the Republic of Ireland might choose to take their rightful place in the family of the Commonwealth of Nations , take our deep neighbourly relation to the next level , to the benefit of both partner — and , I believe , have a bounteous benefit for global politic . I also take this opportunity to send our greeting to the good people of the british overseas territory of Montserrat , who also celebrate St Patrick ' s day . St Patrick be also their patron saint , and they have the most wonderful celebration on 17 March . in my constituency , there be many people with heritage connect to the island of Ireland . there be several roman catholic church and community group in my constituency and throughout the London borough of Havering , which continue to cherish and celebrate the history and family connection with Ireland and celebrate the feast of St Patrick ' s day as a marker of this proud heritage . although I have much sympathy with and support for the Anglican Church of Ireland — I have huge respect for it , as the irish member of the anglican communion — it be only right that I acknowledge the wonderful irish Catholic community in my constituency . I pay special tribute to St Peter ' s catholic primary school on Dorset Avenue , in Romford , and to its headmistress , Mrs Jenny Waterfield , whom I have know for more than 20 year . I pay tribute to she for her leadership of this wonderful school and wish she well for what I believe be her impend retirement later this year . I give a special note of thank to the roman catholic church of St Edward the Confessor , and especially to Father Dominic Howarth , who have lead his parish from strength to strength , most notably in the church ' s splendid architectural improvement , which have provide a beautiful space for worship for the whole community in Romford . we also have the wonderful St Patrick ' s Catholic primary school and the church of Corpus Christi , along with the Collier Row Catholic Club , all of whom serve the community in Collier Row and the whole of north Romford . St Patrick ' s school welcome I one year for my birthday , on 17 March , where I be absolutely thrilled to take part in the school ' s St Patrick ' s day celebration , hear the child sing irish song and watch they take part in traditional irish tap dancing . in Hornchurch , which be also partly within my constituency , our community be serve by St Mary ' s catholic primary school and St Mary Mother of God catholic church on Hornchurch Road . I be always delighted to visit the church ' s annual Christmas fair and other celebration throughout the year . I can not forget the Iona social club — our irish club — on Hornchurch Road , which be always at the heart of social gathering and be a truly welcome place for member of the whole community . although I have already mention the Anglican Church of Ireland , of which I be a great supporter , it would be remiss of I not to far underline the great contribution of the Anglo - irish and Ulster Scots in Romford , of whom there be many . like St Patrick , they originally come from the mainland to Ireland , and now they have come home . they remain my steadfast supporter and be some of the most loyal people in the kingdom . I have to admit that there be limit Orange tradition in my constituency — although I be wear an orange tie today , which be no coincidence — but I do often frequent a popular orange establishment there : the Orange Tree public house , in the village of Havering - atte - Bower . we must do more to mark St Patrick ' s day on the mainland and encourage invigorate relation between all on these British Isles . with such deeply rooted blood tie between our island , and with all that that entail culturally and politically , we must not let our relation dwindle . rather , we must raise they to new height and stand shoulder to shoulder like never before , to greet share opportunity and challenge alike . I wish a belate very happy St Patrick ' s day to one and all . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) on secure this very important debate . I be proud to be one of its supporter . in Brent East , I think I have the large irish constituency in the whole of the UK , of which I be very proud . I do ensure that I go and have a Guinness every year , no matter where I be . I don ' t particularly like Guinness , to be honest . [ laughter . ] I know ! once , when I be in Ireland , I ask for blackcurrant in my Guinness , and they want to throw I out of the pub — it be like a cardinal sin . I learn my lesson there . I also find out that I might own a little part of Kilkenny castle , be from the Butler family . if anybody watch this debate want I to claim part of Kilkenny castle , I will happily come along and do that . when my father and mother talk about when they come to this country , they speak about the coldness they feel when they arrive . they be not just talk about the weather . they be talk about what they encounter when they go to try to rent a property and see sign that say , " no black , no Irish , no dog . " it be in the face of that kind of injustice that my parent form very strong link with irish friend . they be all face with the same kind of discrimination , and from that , relationship grow . we see that relationship in Brent especially , which have a large west indian community , too . the West indian and irish community be very close . they share a love of fairness , music and laughter . this year ' s St Patrick ' s day celebration in Brent be hold at the Learie Constantine centre , and be celebrate with the Montserrat high commission — the hon . member for Romford ( Andrew Rosindell ) also mention Montserrat . that celebration be probably still go on , to be honest . they be have such a good time . it do show that unity be strength , and that when we be the majority , the people who seek to divide we can not win , no matter the rhetoric that they care to use . it be important that we stand together . the irish concentration in my constituency be around Cricklewood , Kilburn and Wembley . we have hear today from other member of the House that lot of irish woman come here and work in the hospital , on the bus and in caring role , and that be no different in my constituency . a lot of the irish man who come here work in the construction industry , and in Brent we have one of the large building material merchant in the world — MP Moran . it have be go for more than 50 year , since it be found by Mick Moran . it be a very successful business , of which I be very proud . we have other irish people in Brent who make we very proud . Colum Moloney , who be there at the celebration last week , be Brent ' s first irish mayor — and boy , do we have a good time when he be mayor . I think he be the only mayor I find it a little hard to keep up with . we have Mike McGing , the director of the Brent Irish Advisory Service . the Irish World be actually base in Brent , and have be there for many year . we lose a wonderful businessman , Tony McGovern , who die last year . we have a nice visit last year from Ireland ' s first female President , Mary Robinson , who come to Brent . if anyone have not get the message by now , Brent be the place to be . our next mayor , Ryan Hack , will be one of our young , and he be also proud and irish . some of my good memory especially in the trade union movement be of singe irish song that last forever and ever . it be a beautiful thing to sing an irish folk song into the wee hour of the morning . one of my mentor , Mary Turner , be an irish dinner lady in the GMB who spend her whole life talk about free school meal and make sure that child do not go hungry in school . I know she will be look down on we and feel very proud that a Labour Government and Mayor of London have be able to support and deliver that . I wish everybody listen a belate very happy St Patrick ' s day . it be a chance for we all to recognise the history of our commonality and what make we human , and to ensure that we continue to be unite as a society . the Chamber seem empty without the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , but I call the next - good Jim : Jim Allister . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . since this debate be not just about St Patrick ' s day but about Northern Ireland affair , I be surprised that I be the only Member of the House from Northern Ireland participate in it . that be a pretty poor situation . I gently put it to the hon . and learn Member that he ought to correct himself slightly . the hon . member for Aberdeenshire North and Moray East ( Seamus Logan ) be also from Northern Ireland . a number of colleague who represent northern irish constituency have send apology for have have to go home , no doubt to tend to their constituent . I put it on the record that they have make that point . I know that the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) be in Westminster Hall this very minute . he have double - book himself , as he would . I be aware that the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) be in residence at his second home . I be , however , the only Member present who represent a Northern Ireland constituency , if that satisfy the hon . member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) . of course , St Patrick be a very important figure historically . no doubt over the generation he have be even more greened than he ever be , but I do find it a little rich in irony that St Patrick , be a Brit , be celebrate with such enthusiasm by the Irish . I think it be important , in talk about St Patrick , to recognise and remember that his primary contribution be in bring the christian message : the message that fallen man need reconciliation with God , and that can come only through the mediation of the Lord Jesus Christ . that be his essential message to Ireland and elsewhere . it be also right , of course , that there be many intertwine relationship between the various part of Ireland and the various part of Great Britain . one can think of some of the standout indication of that , not least in the currency of the second world war , when the port of Northern Ireland be so vital to the battle in the Atlantic and to defend our freedom . indeed , Northern Ireland welcome the first american soldier to be encamp , and they run to many , many thousand in those year . at the same time , sadly , the Republic of Ireland hold to a strategy of non - involvement and neutrality . therefore , it be always right to remember that in Great Britain ' s great hour of need — the United Kingdom ' s great hour of need — it be in fact the people and country of Northern Ireland who come swift to its aid . whereas the Government of the Irish Republic formally , and quite shockingly , express regret at the death of Hitler , it be from within Northern Ireland that the contribution be make that the then Prime Minister , Winston Churchill , so generously recognise . of course , the relationship be multifacete and it be easy to be cosy and sentimental about those relationship , and there be a place for that , but I do have to say to this House that there be also a dark side to the relationship , because the undoubted source for much of the initiation , conduct and carry forward of the brutal IRA terrorist campaign of the 1970 , ' 80 and ' 90 be the aid and assistance give from the Republic of Ireland . indeed , the historical record show that the provisional IRA be first arm by those associate with the Irish Republic — even in government . those be factor that I , represent constituent who lose family member at the hand of the IRA , can not easily forget , and nor should we . we talk about co - operation , and co - operation be good , but it be also a salutary fact that at the peak of those terrorist campaign we do not have the co - operation we need . between 1969 and 1981 there be 81 extradition application for want terrorist in respect of terrorist deed commit in Northern Ireland — 81 application to the Dublin authority — and only one be grant . of course , the truth be that many of the cross - border terrorist attack be carry out from the Irish Republic , among they the most infamous , that of the great loss of military life : the attack at Warrenpoint , where the bomb that kill all those Parachute Regiment and other regiment soldier , be trigger from the Irish Republic . that be but a reflection of what happen time and again . when co - operation be seek , there might have be nice word but there be very little action , as indicate in the matter of extradition . so I think we have to inject into our reflection upon that relationship some of the cold reality that cost the life of british citizen in Northern Ireland . that can not not be write out of our history . if we be to debate Northern Ireland affair properly , it be surely impossible to ignore the incredible constitutional situation that Northern Ireland be now in : namely , that although I stand in what be call the sovereign Parliament of the United Kingdom , there be 300 area of law pertain to Northern Ireland in relation to which neither this Parliament nor the devolve Parliament can make the law , because those power , cover much of our economy , have be surrender to a foreign Parliament , the European Parliament . in pursuit of that , we now have the obscenity of an irish sea border , shortly to be reinforce with the insult of a parcel border . a granny can not send her new grandchild in Northern Ireland a teddy bear without register it through the process of the irish sea border . business in my constituency — small engineering business or craft industry — depend on supply that come by parcel from their age - long supplier in GB , but those parcel will now be subject to the demand of the foreign EU border . those that send they must be a member , at cost , of the trust trader scheme ; they must make a custom declaration ; and they must record what be move , where it come from and where it be go . and yet this be say to be a United Kingdom . it be a United Kingdom sadly partition by a border in the irish sea . the point I be come to be that much of that be at the behest of the authority in the Irish Republic . it be the Taoiseach of the Irish Republic who push , cajole and force the EU into its irrational demand . at the beginning of the protocol negotiation , the EU be prepare for — indeed , it originate the idea — mutual enforcement to control the movement of good . sadly , it be Taoiseach Varadkar who see the opportunity of partition the United Kingdom and who insist on the border be push to the Irish sea , where the IRA could never push it in its 30 year of terror . it be the Dublin Government that make those irrational demand and repudiate the very thing that make that unnecessary : namely , mutual enforcement . so yes , there be lot of nice fuzzy sentiment about how the Irish Republic and the UK have good relation in many area , but the reality be that there have also be a malevolence to the detriment of Northern Ireland . I may be get on a bit now , but I do not recall some of the accusation that the hon . and learn Member be make about the role of the Irish Government in the negotiation that follow the Brexit vote . will he clarify , for the purpose of the record , whether many unionist elect representative , some of whom sit in this Chamber , encourage their supporter to vote for Brexit in June 2016 ? do they not ? they do , but they do not get Brexit — that be the fundamental issue . the question on the ballot paper be , " do you want the United Kingdom to leave ? " it be not , " do you want GB to leave and to leave Northern Ireland behind ? " , but that be what we get . we be leave in the single market , under their custom code . never forget that their custom code decree that GB be foreign — a third country — so its good must pass through the EU border because Northern Ireland be treat as EU territory . that be not on my ballot paper , and that be not what I vote for , but that be what the last Government leave we , and that be what this Government seem unprepared to do anything about , even though it be not what they bring about . so yes , let we celebrate the international relation that we would expect between neighbour , but let we not get so bleary - eyed that we do not recognise the reality and the legacy of the history . we be talk about the wonderful relationship with the Irish Republic , but who be take the United Kingdom to the European Court of Human Rights ? it be the Government of the Irish Republic , over a legacy Act that this Government be not even pursue . in any relationship , people look for two - way co - operation . they certainly do not look to try to exploit a situation to achieve the disassembly of part of the neighbouring country . sadly , that be what be happen in respect of the Brexit negotiation . I call Liam Conlon to make the final Back - Bench contribution . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) on secure the debate , and on all his effort and leadership in champion the Irish in Britain and advocate for co - operative relationship with Northern Ireland for many year . l á fh é ile P á draig sona daoibh — happy St Patrick ' s day . St Patrick ' s day be no long a day but a season . it start sometime in early March , around the time of my birthday , and carry on for a full month . I think today ' s debate mark the end of it . I have " green fatigue " at this stage of the month , where I do not want to see any more St Patrick ' s paraphernalia , and certainly no Guinness , for quite a while . however , it have once again be a fantastic season , celebrate the good of the irish community in Britain . I draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I be the proud chair of the Labour Party Irish Society , and have be for the past five year . we represent the irish community in Britain and champion strong co - operative relationship between Ireland and Britain , and Northern Ireland as well . someone touch on the Good Friday agreement , and two year ago I be proud to open the Mo Mowlam film studio for cinematic art at Ulster University in Derry . she be one of many great figure from our party who contribute to that peace agreement , which be in the dna of the Labour party and I be very proud of that . many hon . member have have a lot to say about Guinness as the sponsor of choice for St Patrick ' s day refreshment , but Jameson be also available and tayto crisp be worth note . Tayto be more than a crisp : they be a way of educate people about Ireland and irish politic . a lot of people do not know that there be two type of Tayto , one from Northern Ireland and one from the Republic of Ireland — or , as I call they , the Nordie Tayto and the Free Stayto . that be always a good way of explain thing to people . as I say in my maiden speech , I be proud to be London - Irish . that be the community that I grow up in and the community I want to pay tribute to today . I be also proud to represent Beckenham and Penge , the only constituency in London with a Gaelic place name , as " penge " mean " edge of the wood " . we have a fantastic irish community . all four of my grandparent be from Ireland : two grannie from the south and two grandad from the north . one granny be particularly proud and I be wonder what she would have do if she have still be alive when I be elect . I know for a fact that she would have go to 9 am mass and then to 10 . 30 be mass , to make sure that everyone know that her grandson have be elect as an MP . a couple of year ago there be an exhibition at the London Irish Centre curate by the national charity , Irish in Britain , that for the first time that I can remember really tell the story of the London - irish community over several generation . the London Irish do as much as any community to build this great city . irish navvy dig the underground , and irish construction worker rebuilt our city after the war . I know that we have a fantastic construction industry in London , with so many irish people involve , and today we have the founder of and member from the London Irish Construction Network , include Sean Daly and Frank o ' Hare , here to watch the debate . as be touch on by my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle - under - Lyme , wave of thousand of young irish woman come to staff our hospital at the birth of the NHS in this country . those woman , know as the Angels of Mercy , be often overlook but essential to the NHS . I spend a lot of time in NHS hospital as a teenager , especially the Royal London hospital and the Royal National orthopaedic hospital . my irish dad would often look after I , and we would often encounter an irish nurse . before I could get treat , they have to establish how they know each other . it would begin with , " what county be you from ? " , then , " what town be you from ? do you know so and so ? " once they have make that connection , we be free to get on with our day . the Irish in Britain have maintain that relationship with the NHS ever since , and I be really proud that there be more irish staff in the NHS today than staff from any other european country . even if we think back more recently to the global health emergency of covid , it be an irish woman , Professor Teresa Lambe , who co - develop the Oxford - AstraZeneca vaccine . it be then Margaret Keenan , an irish woman from Enniskillen live in Coventry and a former NHS nurse , who become the first person in the world to have the vaccine . the irish connection to the NHS be really deep and strong , and our community be incredibly proud of it . however , the exhibition also chart the history of how the irish community be receive here , which , as have be touch on , be not always easy . alongside the Windrush generation and the West indian community — it be important to remember that there have be a lot of solidarity between those community — it be often treat with suspicion and subject to discrimination , include through sign that read " no black , no dog , no Irish " . however , the London irish community and the irish community across Britain today be a community transform . it be confident in the contribution it make to every aspect of life in Britain — economic , political , social and cultural . the irish community help to make our country the great place it be to live . I extend that beyond London to the home county as well . my hon . friend the Member for read Central ( Matt Rodda ) , who be here today but can not take part in the debate , have long be a champion of irish contribution to read football club and to the Reading Irish Centre , which I have be to and which do incredible work to support the irish community in Reading . as well as celebrate the contribution of the irish community in Britain , I will touch on a campaign I start in the last few week to secure justice for 13 , 000 survivor of Ireland ' s mother and baby home live in Britain . we often need to remember the reason why lot of people leave Ireland and decide to come to Britain . for some , it be for work or to be with friend and family , but in the case of thousand of woman who be send to those home for the perceive sin of become pregnant outside marriage , it be to escape those institution and the stigma that often come with have be in one . More than 13 , 000 survivor live in Britain today , both woman and the child who be bear into the institution . they be subject to some of the most horrific mistreatment and abuse in those home . woman be use as unpaid labour , and their child be often forcibly adopt . I have name my Bill " philomena ' s law " , after Philomena Lee , who I feel bring that story to a global audience in the film " philomena " , in which she be portray by Dame Judi Dench . we have an event on an evening two night ago in a pack room in Parliament to which survivor come and tell their story . it be incredibly powerful to hear from they about the impact that that have on they many year later . I hope the Government will listen to the proposal we be put forward . at the moment , if the survivor accept the compensation payment they have be award by the Irish Government , but be in receipt of means - test benefit , they will lose that compensation . I hear from survivor this week , and that have actually become an additional burden for many of these woman , who be now often in their 80 or 90 , and some of they be very vulnerable . I will go back to the Irish in Britain . we see the pride of the second - generation irish community , of which I be part , and the growth of irish culture and its importance right across Britain in the growth of the Gaelic Athletic Association . it be not just people of irish heritage who get involve , but people from all community and background who participate in GAA . there be also the irish language ; people be adopt irish name . my cousin Jordan and his partner Annie have a baby a couple of week ago — a little girl — and I congratulate they . they have name she Fiadh , which be irish for " wild " — I think she will take after her dad . it be common that people be very proud of their heritage often several generation back . we have see that in irish music and culture , where for year the irish community be subject to discrimination . we be now in a period where we can turn on the tv on a Friday night and watch Graham Norton on BBC one and " Derry Girls " on Channel 4 , which be a representation of how far the irish community have come . we see it in trade union and in the labour movement as well : there be a period a year or two ago when the general secretary of every single major trade union in this country be either first - generation or second - generation Irish . there be no more visible transformation in the confidence of the London irish community over time than in the growth of the Mayor of London ' s St Patrick ' s day parade . I be very proud to take part in that this month with our mayor , Sir Sadiq Khan . More than 50 , 000 people join and participate in that parade , and London be awash with green . to sum up , what make the irish community so special for I be that it be an inclusive and welcome community . at the entrance to the exhibition at the London Irish Centre two year ago , there be a plaque that read : " Ar sc á th a ch é ile a mhaireann na daoine " , which mean " in the shelter of each other , the people live " . it be an irish proverb that sum up what make our community in Britain so special and sum up neatly the irish contribution to make our country the great place it be to live . I again thank my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle - under - Lyme for secure this debate , and I thank everyone who have take part in it . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank other hon . member and the hon . member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) for what have be a really lovely debate . this be my first time participate in this debate , and I have be quite surprised by how genuinely lovely it have be and by the outpouring of love for the irish community both across these isle and in the Republic of Ireland . that have be really lovely to hear . I be slightly concerned that we would get through the debate without mention anything about irish music , so when the hon . member for Brent East ( Dawn Butler ) start talk about irish music I be frankly relieve . music be such a big part of my life when I be grow up . I discover irish music largely in a bar in France over many , many late night when I live there for a while . it go on late , or maybe early — I do not know ; it be 1 o ' clock or sometimes 3 o ' clock in the morning when it finish . the sound of the fiddle and the joyful music be really amazing , and I have keep up that love of irish music . I thank Ireland for give we that music and for make it so enjoyable . I be also slightly concerned because the debate be about northern irish affair as well as the wonderful thing about St Patrick ' s day — I also enjoy partake of some Guinness . the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim ( Jim Allister ) then speak up and start say something that I want to say . while there be some amazing thing about Ireland and our relationship with it , there be also thing that perhaps be not work quite as well as they could . in a debate about northern irish affair , we should acknowledge that . in that spirit , without wish to take away from some of the loveliness of this debate , I have a few thing to say along those line . I hope hon . member will forgive I , but they be important to raise . I will start by talk about something very current ; it happen early on this week . I pay tribute to the police and to school for their swift and professional response to a hoax that force nine school in Northern Ireland to close this week . teacher , parent and pupil can frankly do without the disruption and anxiety that such hoax cause . they have other thing that they need to concentrate on — the importance of education must never be underestimate — so I be glad that thing be able to return to normal quickly . Northern Ireland do not vote to leave the European Union . some 56 % of its population want to stay , yet the decision take by the Conservative Government in implement Brexit have cause nothing but problem , whether along the border , inside Stormont or with trade . while Northern Ireland enjoy access to the United Kingdom ' s and the European Union ' s market , the Conservatives ' Brexit deal — a botched deal , I be afraid — have be a disaster for the economy , hit small business , farmer and fisher particularly badly . although we welcome the agreement of the Windsor framework , that deal be just a stick plaster — one that only exist to fix problem cause by the conservative party . what be really need be something much more comprehensive and strong . for Northern Ireland — as for Scotland , Wales and England — a close relationship with our european ally will bring nothing but positive , but in our opinion , the Labour Government be fail to take a pragmatic approach to the UK ' s relationship with the EU . an easy step forward would be alignment on sanitary and phytosanitary standard and secure a veterinary agreement , which the Liberal Democrats be call for as part of our plan to fix what we believe be the UK ' s broken relationship with Europe . as such , we call on the UK Government to take the follow two step : to use the provision within the UK - EU trade agreement to secure a veterinary agreement , and to enshrine alignment with EU SPS standard in domestic law . the EU already have two veterinary agreement in place , one with New Zealand and one with Switzerland . such agreement be not particularly novel and certainly not impossible to achieve , so it be difficult to understand what be hold the Labour Government back . fix our relationship with Europe be the most important way to boost our economy and accordingly provide funding to fix public service , yet labour continue to rule out even simple step , such as those I have outline or , indeed , a youth mobility scheme . such a scheme would not be a return to free movement , as the Prime Minister have suggest ; it would be a way to support our young people to develop the skill and experience they need to help grow the UK economy as a whole . Ulster University ' s economic policy centre have publish a report that look at what future skill employer will need , and at the potential supply gap . Northern Ireland need more than 5 , 000 additional worker a year in order to grow its economy , so a youth mobility scheme between the UK and the EU be the perfect way to fix that problem . these proposal would go a long way towards reduce the friction cause by the Brexit deal . in a world in which the Labour Government talk endlessly about the tough choice they need to take , a youth mobility scheme feel like an open goal — we just need labour to lace up its boot and kick the ball into it . however , we be also call on the Government to negotiate a new trade deal with the UK with a new custom union at its heart , which would tear down red tape and boost our economy . boost the economy of both Northern Ireland and the whole of the UK mean more revenue to fix public service that desperately need fixing , especially in the context of power sharing only have be restore just over a year ago , follow two year without a function executive during a cost of living crisis . the Liberal Democrats ' four - step road map provide a path for the UK to rebuild its tie of trust and trade with our european neighbour . ultimately , Liberal Democrats want to see the UK back at the heart of Europe once more , set the agenda from within rather than battle the constraint from without . turn to the welfare cut that be announce last week and deepen far yesterday , it be hard to overstate how strongly oppose Liberal Democrat Members be to those cut and , importantly , how concerned we be about what they mean practically for those impact . we agree that we have to bring the welfare bill down and support more people into work — it be right for people and for our economy — but the emphasis should be on support people into work . we will not achieve that by slash support for disabled people , some of whom will never be able to work , while other need the personal independence payment precisely so that they can continue to work . these cut will have a disproportionate impact on Northern Ireland , and particularly on those still live with the legacy of the trouble , include victim with catastrophic injury and those suffer from trauma - relate mental health issue . the hon . member for Lagan Valley ( Sorcha Eastwood ) have be highly vocal on this issue , describe the cut as " cruel and cowardly " and highlight that balance the book should not come at the expense of the most vulnerable . limit the eligibility of these people will do nothing to get more people into employment . liberal Democrats have long say that the good way to bring down benefit spending be to fix health and social care , and fix it quickly . that involve invest in preventive health measure by properly fund mental health support , especially for young people , and reform social care — surely that should be the priority . however , when it come to healthcare reform in Northern Ireland , the spanner in the work remain political instability . since devolution begin in its most recent form 25 year ago , Stormont have be without a function Government for almost 40 % of the time . it have have prolong collapse — in 2000 , from 2002 to 2007 , from 2017 to 2020 , and most recently from 2022 to 2024 . it be the people of Northern Ireland , no matter what community they be from , who bear the brunt of a malfunction government . this never - end cycle prevent the transformative action that be necessary to get Northern Ireland ' s public service and finance in order . there be also the cost of maintain a divide society , estimate in 2016 to be at least £ 833 million annually . that cost stem from duplicate service , additional policing and security expense , and miss opportunity for investment and tourism . those unnecessary cost be a drain on the Executive ' s already stretch budget ; it would be far well to spend that money on improved healthcare , ease the pressure cause by the cost of living , and essential service . early this year , the hon . member for Lagan Valley hold a Westminster Hall debate on the reform of political institution in Northern Ireland , in which she outline the way in which reform those institution will allow Northern Ireland to become more prosperous . address the financial burden of division could unlock substantial funding for public service . we echo her call for an update assessment of the societal and financial cost of division , and a commitment from all party to tackle those cost . that would ensure that money be spend where it be need most , and that we could deliver a more inclusive , united and integrated community for everyone . Northern Ireland can not afford to keep pay for a divide system in which essential service struggle . in closing , I underline that the Liberal Democrats be entirely commit to fairness , sustainability , and a share future for Northern Ireland . we call for real action on welfare support , movement back towards our european neighbour , and a focus on tackle division and addressing issue in political institution in order to boost public spending . we on the liberal Democrat Benches have a positive vision for a more prosperous , inclusive and forward - look Northern Ireland — a vision that I hope all member of this House will share , regardless of their view about how to get there . I call the Opposition spokesperson . it have be an enormously enjoyable debate . I start by pay tribute to the hon . member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) . from the perspective of Conservative Members , he be one of a depressingly large wave of new entrant into this place , but he have definitely mark himself out as one to watch . he produce a tour de force — a wide - range review of the historical community tie between the nation of the British Isles . the hon . member for Aberdeenshire North and Moray East ( Seamus Logan ) give we a very interesting history of St Patrick . I certainly learn more from his speech than I be able to find in my Wikipedia search in preparation for this debate — that be an admission . the hon . member for Luton South and South Bedfordshire ( Rachel Hopkins ) , who be , I think it be fair to say , a proud trade unionist , and other Labour Members highlight the strong connection between people of irish descent and the trade union movement — so though that movement have not all be good , some of it have be . my hon . friend the Member for Romford ( Andrew Rosindell ) call with great force and , in my submission , quite rightly for a bank holiday to celebrate St Patrick . if the hon . member for Newcastle - under - Lyme put forward a proposal to celebrate both St Patrick ' s day and St George ' s day as bank holiday , I would be one of the first to support he . my hon . friend the Member for Romford also mention the now defunct order of St Patrick , and his campaign to reinstate it . that sound like a sensible thing to do . he make reference to the green of St Patrick . from my research on Wikipedia , I learn that St Patrick ' s colour be actually blue , not green . Green be a development of the most recent century , so we might have to do a bit of work there . the hon . member for Brent East ( Dawn Butler ) celebrate — boast about , frankly — have the large irish diaspora of any UK constituency . she highlight , as do other , the huge contribution that people of irish descent have make to the local economy and the local community . I will skip to the hon . member for Beckenham and Penge ( Liam Conlon ) , who speak of the Tayto diaspora and celebrate the London irish community . he make an eloquent plea for support for his campaign on Philomena ' s law . the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim ( Jim Allister ) rightly describe the significant contribution of Northern Ireland to this nation ' s fight for freedom in the second world war , but he go on to recognise some dark aspect of the relationship between Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland , and of the east - west relationship , and I do not think he be wrong to do that . if we be to have a mature relationship build on trust and respect , we need to recognise each other ' s weakness , as well as be sentimental about our shared history . we should be clear - eyed and recognise the failing of other , as well as ourselves , in our shared history . while I do not agree with everything he say , there be point when I think , " yes , you be quite right . we should be clear - eyed about this . " that take I to St Patrick . his day , 17 March , be forever link in my family with my father , Patrick Mayhew , who be half - irish . it be a red letter day in my family ' s calendar . wherever we be in the world , we would always ring up or get in touch with my father to wish he a happy St Patrick ' s day . St Patrick be , in fact , a Briton . I know that , but I do not know until I prepare for this debate that that he be capture by irish pirate and take forcefully as a slave to Ireland . whatever his experience there , he can not have hate it too much , because he then voluntarily return to bring Christianity to Ireland and to drive out the snake . that be an early example of cross - border cultural mixing that have be to our mutual benefit . the late census suggest that more than 400 , 000 Irish - bear people live in the UK . Ireland be , of course , our close neighbour by geography , by culture , by family connection and by friendship . that have lead to a historical interlinking of our economy — an interlinking that can be develop far . as of 2023 , some £ 78 . 8 billion of trade flow between our nation . the United Kingdom be Ireland ' s large trading partner , and Ireland be the sixth - large trading partner of the United Kingdom . we can not pretend , as the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim rightly point out , that there be not continue economic and political challenge in the relationship between our country . I therefore welcome the close political co - operation , east - west and , increasingly , north - south . speak from a personal perspective , I recognise some of his comment about the difficulty of deal with the irish state back in the 1980 . in those day , I well recall the then Attorney General express considerable frustration at extradition application be refuse because of type error and grammatical inconsistency . that be just a little historical note that I want to add to the account give by the hon . and learn Member . we have a UK - Ireland summit as recently as 6 March , and it be noticeable that the Taoiseach say : " we make the great progress when our two government work together , particularly to support peace , prosperity and reconciliation on this island . rooted in our commitment as co - guarantor of the Good Friday Agreement , I be confident that today mark a new chapter in the irish british relationship . " that be what this debate , among many other , be do . it powerfully support a bringing together of our two nation , and a focus on and recognition of our share history and future . may St Patrick inspire we all to further friendship and co - operation across the British Isles . it be my pleasure to respond to this debate , which establish the point that St Patrick ' s be a season that go on beyond St Patrick ' s day . I thank the Backbench Business Committee for recognise the importance of allocate time to debate St Patrick ' s day and Northern Ireland affair , and I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Ealing Southall ( Deirdre Costigan ) , who be from Dublin originally , and my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) , who be on the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee , on secure the debate . as he say in his opening tour de force , he have relative from Northern Ireland and his wife be from Northern Ireland . like they and so many people across the United Kingdom , I have root on the island of Ireland , as two of my grandparent be from Northern Ireland — they be from Eglinton and Newcastle , County Down — and I be married to a London Irishman . I also represent 2 , 500 Irish - bear constituent , and over 3 , 000 irish passport holder , in my constituency of Putney . the link between our isle be find in St Patrick ' s life as well . there be a stain - glass window of St Patrick just outside the Chamber , as he be the patron saint for Ireland and Northern Ireland , but he come from either Wales or Scotland — scottish mp claim that he come from Scotland in a recent debate . his story be well know , and the good news that he bring to the island 1 , 500 year ago be celebrate by so many people from all community across the island of Ireland — and by people from around the world , who also celebrate the contribution of people from Northern Ireland and Ireland to their community . I thank all hon . member who have speak this afternoon for highlight the contribution of people from the island of Ireland to so many constituency , the work of many irish centre — include in west London , Luton and Reading — and people ' s personal memory of St Patrick ' s day past . the order of St Patrick have be mention , as have the contribution of NHS nurse . a recent book about NHS nurse begin with a nurse from Ireland go to Putney , where she receive a warm welcome and begin her nursing career . People from the island of Ireland have make important contribution to construction , music , culture , politic , hospitality and business . like many hon . member , I have attend many St Patrick ' s day event across London and Belfast this month , include the anglo - irish event at Stormont , the Champ event here in Parliament , and the debate organise by the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) last Tuesday . I also attend the Mayor of London ' s St Patrick ' s day celebration in Trafalgar Square , which see thousand of people take to the street and , whatever their background , become irish for a day . I thank the Mayor , Sir Sadiq Khan , for put on that event . meanwhile , the Secretary of State have be in the United States to champion Northern Ireland to the US Administration and Congress , as well as to wide Irish America . he be use his platform to promote Northern Ireland as a great place to live , study , work and do business . last week , the Government take that far by host the first ever St Patrick ' s day reception in No . 10 , where we welcome leader from the business community , the voluntary sector , the art and entertainment , and have a Guinness bar . more broadly , I have have the pleasure of travel to Northern Ireland for many year . at first , I do so in a personal capacity , but I have be able to mix business with pleasure since my appointment as Under - Secretary of State for Northern Ireland . I like to pack as much as possible into my trip , and I have clock up 26 visit and over 140 engagement there since July last year . every visit reinforce the sense that Northern Ireland be exciting and thriving . through its small and medium - sized business , world - class education system , active community sector , and thriving hospitality and tourism business , it be lead the way for the United Kingdom in so many way . as many other member have say , our relationship with the Irish Government be key to support business and community in Northern Ireland , and that be what the Secretary of State and I have prioritise . Ireland be our close geographical neighbour and our sixth - large trading partner . our commitment be clearly illustrate by the Prime Minister and Taoiseach - lead UK - Ireland summit , which take place in Liverpool early this month — the first of its kind . build on our co - guarantorship of the Good Friday agreement , the summit establish new co - operation in the area of trade , security , climate and technology — co - operation that will benefit people across the island right up to 2030 . a new UK - Ireland youth forum be also start . I look forward to continue our engagement through other Good Friday agreement forum , include the british - Irish Intergovernmental Conference , the british - Irish Council and the british - Irish Parliamentary Assembly , which have be mention . I can think of no well example of our family tie work to good effect than the culmination of the share UK and irish effort in 1998 with the signing of the Good Friday agreement . in these time of conflict around the world , the Good Friday agreement remain a globally respect success in conflict resolution . ceasefire can be negotiate , peace can be win and a route to maintain that peace through politic can be find . political courage and public support for that courage be essential . although there remain more to be do , I be pleased to say that since the signing of the agreement Northern Ireland have become , and be become more and more every day , a more reconcile place . the Prime Minister , the Secretary of State and I be deeply committed to safeguard political stability in Northern Ireland . many member across the Chamber know all too well the importance of have a stable devolved Government in Northern Ireland . through the " safeguard the Union " Command Paper , we be deliver on UK promise in respect of Northern Ireland . we be implement the Windsor framework and be work towards an SPS veterinary agreement , a matter that be raise by the hon . member for Chelmsford ( Marie Goldman ) . most recently , we have establish Intertrade UK , and the East - West Council be meet shortly . we have digitise the Belfast News Letter and roll out new training material for civil servant to ensure that they have a full understanding of the significance of the Good Friday agreement and successor agreement . the Secretary of State and I will continue to deliver this work with all of the community . transform public service be a priority for our work with the Northern Ireland Executive . we have recently announce £ 129 million of public service transformation funding , to be spend predominantly on health but also on special educational need and other project . we be share expertise , good practice and success story , and it be on this work beyond funding that government can work together to ensure that the Executive seize every one of the opportunity to transform public service . Legacy be also a priority . it be a strongly feel issue that touch the life of so many . the UK Government consider co - operation with the Northern Ireland Executive and the Irish Government essential to find an agree way forward . Northern Ireland be a unique and very special place . the warmth of its people , the creativity of its youth , the prestige of its industry , the charm of its landscape and the potential of its economy know no bound . it be a privilege to be the parliamentary under - Secretary of State for Northern Ireland , and this Government and I will continue do all we can to well improve the life of each and every person who call Northern Ireland home — from Kilkeel to Coleraine , from Belleek to Bangor and from the causeway to Clogher . I be grateful to all colleague who have take part in this debate . I thank my hon . friend the Members for Mid and South Pembrokeshire ( Henry Tufnell ) , for Hammersmith and Chiswick ( Andy Slaughter ) and for Stafford ( Leigh Ingham ) and the right hon . member for Staffordshire Moorlands ( Dame Karen Bradley ) for their intervention . I be grateful to the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim ( Jim Allister ) for take part . I be sorry that he do not like my speech . I have not be call " fuzzy " or " bleary - eyed " , but I have be call warm , so I shall take that . he give a speech very much in the spirit in which he tend to speak , and I be sure his colleague up at Stormont miss he very much indeed . I pay tribute to the hon . member for Aberdeenshire North and Moray East ( Seamus Logan ) , who give a very good speech . he share some story , and I suspect there be a few more that we will hear some other time . my hon . friend the Member for Luton South and South Bedfordshire ( Rachel Hopkins ) show herself to be the tenacious champion that we know she be for the irish community in her constituency . the hon . member for Romford ( Andrew Rosindell ) ought not to do away with his inner Irishness — blood be thick than water . he make a very strong case for the restoration of the order of St Patrick , and audition very well to be one of its first recipient . my father share a birthday with he on 17 March , so we will be friend . my hon . friend the Member for Brent East ( Dawn Butler ) make a very good speech share the story of the Irish in her part of the world . she do say — I have write it down — " brent be where it ' s at , " but I do not think she have yet be to Newcastle - under - Lyme . I thank the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Broadland and Fakenham ( Jerome Mayhew ) , for his contribution and for put a target on my back , which be a great way to get my colleague on this side of the Chamber to be my friend . I thank he none the less , and I pay tribute to his late father , who be of course Secretary of State for Northern Ireland . I thank the Minister for her remark ; I also thank the Liberal Democrats spokesperson , the hon . member for Chelmsford ( Marie Goldman ) , who perhaps merge two speech from this week in her contribution , which we welcome none the less . this have be an excellent debate . I look forward to all hon . member come together for a similar one in March 2026 , as we celebrate Northern Ireland and the relationship between our United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider St Patrick ' s day and Northern Irish affair . Modern Slavery Act 2015 : 10th anniversary [ relevant document : oral evidence take before the Home Affairs Committee on 25 March 2025 , on Modern Slavery Act : ten - year review , HC 758 . ] I beg to move , that this House have consider the tenth anniversary of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 . it be an honour to open this debate . I thank the Backbench Business Committee for grant it and thank all right hon . and hon . member and friend who support the application for it . I also want to put on the record my gratitude to the many parliamentarian and former parliamentarian who get we to the point at which we be able to have a Modern Slavery Act 2015 . first and foremost be the noble Baroness May , without whose leadership we simply would not have achieve what we do , but she do that on the back of support from so many parliamentarian who have go before she , start , of course , with Anthony Steen . as special adviser to the pre - legislative scrutiny Committee and to the Home Affairs Committee , and as the drive force behind the Human Trafficking Foundation , he have be ever - present and omnipresent in this field . he be very ably support by Peter Bone , who set up the first all - party parliamentary group on human trafficking and modern slavery , which I be now very proud to co - chair with the noble Baroness Butler - Sloss , another true legend in this area . I pay tribute to Frank Field , who be a wonderful advocate and with whom I work so incredibly closely both as a Minister and as a Back Bencher . he lead parliamentary effort as the first chair of the Speaker ' s advisory committee on the Modern Slavery Act and how we implement it here in Parliament . in addition , I pay tribute to the noble Lord Randall , who support Anthony Steen and other and now chair the Human Trafficking Foundation ; Maria Miller , who work on the review of the Modern Slavery Act , along with Baroness Butler - Sloss and Frank Field ; Lord Coaker , who chair the Select Committee before I ; and my right hon . friend the Member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) who , through his social justice work , be a real advocate . the final person I want to pay tribute to , who be so sadly no long with we , be James Brokenshire . he be my predecessor as modern slavery Minister and he really do start the work to get we to the point where we have a Modern Slavery Act . I can not quite believe that it be 10 year ago . I think I might be the only person in the Chamber who be here at that time , but 26 March 2015 — it be 10 year ago to the day ; it be a Thursday — be the very last day before Parliament prorogue for the 2015 general election . we have be work on the Bill . it have undergo every kind of proper scrutiny and be an exemplar for how legislation should be do : pre - legislative scrutiny , a draft Bill and work do with the Select Committee and other . it also have cross - party support . as be always the case with any comprehensive piece of propose legislation , there be area where change be look at , and there be quite a lot of ping - pong between this place and the other place . as the Minister , I spend far more time than I ever expect stand at the Bar and hope that by be there I could convince their lordship to support the Government ' s position . we have two real sticking point . one be on the treatment of those in the United Kingdom who be on an overseas domestic worker visa ; the other be whether every child victim should have an independent child trafficking advocate . I pay tribute to the noble Lord Bates , who be the Lords Minister at that time . his power of diplomacy and skill in navigate the other place be legendary . he get we to the point at which we be the final piece of legislation to get Royal Assent in that Parliament . I remember be in one of the office in Marsham Street , where we all sit with bated breath . although we know that we have get through it , nobody quite believe it until " La Reyne le veult " be finally announce and the Modern Slavery Bill become an Act of Parliament . as well as those parliamentarian , I pay tribute to all the official in the Home Office who work so hard . it be a real mission for they , and it would not have be possible without an incredible team effort . I thank everybody who get we there . it be unbelievable to I that 10 year on , I be still ask , " what be modern slavery ? " I sometimes feel slightly cross that I still have to explain it , but it be important that we keep reflect what it be . it be slavery , plain and simple . we all understand what slavery be . it be slavery happen today . it be a financial crime ; it be invariably for financial gain . it be the exploitation of one human being by another human be for financial gain . it be a coercive crime , and it be happen globally . there be estimate to be 50 million victim globally and more than 100 , 000 victim here in the UK . I hate to say this , Madam Deputy Speaker , but I can assure you that it will be happen in your town , village and city . it will be round the corner , happen to people you come across in your everyday life . I urge everybody who be listen and everybody who be here — they be here because they care about this , and I be grateful to all of they — to educate wherever they can . one of the thing I be proud of be the poster — many member here will not see they because they be male — in woman ' s toilet at airport or station that say , " be you a victim of slavery ? " we come up with that in the Home Office because we realise that a victim of slavery who be with the perpetrator in the queue at the immigration line at the airport have nowhere to go to get help , apart from the lady ' lavatory , where their perpetrator will not follow they . as the Minister will know , the perpetrator be very often male , although as we hear in our evidence session on Tuesday in the Home Affairs Committee , there be always at least one woman on every indictment . woman be perpetrator as well , but we need to find somewhere to get those woman the support they need . this be a crime that be happen everywhere . I have to make the point that it be not a migration crime . there be a laziness in the language use around trafficking , particularly by medium commentator who talk about human trafficking when they mean people - smuggling . People - smuggling be a consensual crime . those people be victim of a crime , but they be almost victim of fraud rather than be coerce into do something against their will . it be very much like the difference between someone who get sick from take drug because their drink have be spike against their knowledge and someone who take illegal drug they have buy and be sick . there be a policy response to each of those case , but it have to be different . the policy response for victim of trafficking can not be confuse with the policy response for victim of the crime of people smuggle . People - smuggling be a crime that we need to tackle , and it be right that government control their border , but we must separate the two . that should be do at law enforcement level , at the Home Office and at other policy department . these two issue can not be confuse . what do the Act do ? I have a copy of it with I . it be the first time I have look through the Act for quite some time . I be get goosebump but also feel slightly nauseous at what we go through to get there . I be incredibly proud of it . it introduce the new offence of trafficking and exploitation . I pay tribute to Caroline Haughey KC , who come before the Committee on Tuesday and who help to write those offence . the offence be very carefully draft to ensure we could get the maximum number of prosecution , and they be write with a view to jury be able to understand they . there be a push at the moment to change the traffic definition to not include movement . the reason we have an exploitation offence and a traffic offence be that a jury will think of traffic as involve movement . that be why there be also an exploitation offence that do not involve movement , so that prosecutor can get successful prosecution . I be not sure that that change be necessary . the maximum sentence for these offence be previously 14 year , but the Act change that to life imprisonment , which be a really important move . protection for victim have improve . for example , we introduce a statutory defence , to ensure that victim come forward , which be incredibly important . civil protection order be also introduce , as be measure to enable law enforcement to more easily access the financial asset of perpetrator , which also include reparation order . this be do because the only way to break this crime be to break the business model . there be also new duty on public agency . the Act introduce the Independent Anti - Slavery Commissioner . independent child trafficking advocate be include in the legislation , although it take a long time for we to get they there . the other piece of landmark legislation be the " transparency in supply chain " measure in section 54 . this have not initially be in the Bill . for example , it be not there when I stand at that Dispatch Box and close the debate on Second Reading , but it be introduce during the passage of the Bill . this be the measure that everybody want to see include . importantly , though , it be not a stand - alone measure ; it be part of a modern slavery strategy that have be publish the year before . it be base on the " four Ps " approach to tackle crime : pursue , prevent , protect and prepare . there be so much in the modern slavery strategy beyond what be in the legislation . the legislation be landmark , but it be only a very small part of what be be do . in 2015 , when the Modern Slavery Bill be enact , it be world - leading . we be the first country to have a consolidated Modern Slavery Act , the first country to have transparency in supply chain legislation , and the first country that have this as a priority for Government . but the world have move on . as we all know , criminal always move more quickly than the legislation . when we introduce the legislation , county line be not a phenomenon . although the offence in the Act be very appropriate for the perpetrator of county line offence , the protection for victim simply do not fit the crime that be perpetrate in county line . the issue of small boat be not a phenomenon . it simply be not there when we introduce the Act . however , I do want to make it clear that there be very little evidence that the people travel on small boat be victim of trafficking — this be see in the Home Affairs Committee . they be victim of the crime of people - smuggling . the problem be that the measure take to stop the small boat have a chilling effect on those who be genuine victim of the coercive crime of human trafficking . that can mean that they do not come forward and that they will not provide the evidence that be need to stop the perpetrator . that make it hard to detect the crime and to give the protection to victim . this be a real opportunity for trafficker . somebody may have pay the people smuggler to get they into the UK , but when they get here , they can not legitimately work and they can not find the support that they need . they be also in debt , and that indebtedness and the inability to work legally mean that they then become victim of trafficker . but , as I have say , that be not a phenomenon we know of at the time . orphanage trafficking be another issue . it be a global issue that we be only just get to term with in the United Kingdom . we do not feel that the issue have affect we , but in reality more than 5 million child , who be not orphan , be currently live in orphanage . they be live in orphanage that have be set up to raise money . they have tourist visit they and gap year student work there . they be there for the financial gain of those who have set up these orphanage . Australia have lead the way in tackle that issue . I wish to pay tribute to Senator Linda Reynolds , who be stand down from the Australian Parliament in the next few day . she have be a real leader on this . at the Inter - Parliamentary Union , she have pass resolution that have be adopt . I hope the Minister will look favourably on amendment that I might bring forward to the Crime and Policing Bill , or to a private Member ' s Bill , that try to get the issue of orphanage trafficking into our legislation . the people who want to support the orphanage do so with the good of intention — they want to help the poor child — but this be actually a fraud . these child be not orphan . More than 5 million child from south - east Asia and South America have be take away from their family and be be use to raise money for fake organisation . when we bring in the section 54 measure on transparency in supply chain , although California have such a measure , it be the first time that a national Government have introduce one . quite deliberately , it be a light touch provision — we have to prove that it would work and be effective — but the time have come for it to be tighten . I be disappointed that on Tuesday we be unable to pass the amendment on the use of Uyghur labour in the supply chain for solar panel and so on . the US have the Uyghur Forced Labour Prevention Act 2021 and its hot good provision , whereby item can not even enter the US market unless the importer can prove that there be no slavery in the supply chain . I urge the Government to look at what we can do on similar measure , because they would be simple win for the Government that would improve the situation and make it clear that we do not stand for slavery . we will not become green in our energy production on the back of the poor and those who be be exploit . what be I ask the Minister today ? first , when will we have a new modern slavery strategy ? we desperately need one , as the current one be 11 year old . will she commit to strengthen supply chain measure ? it have be a big disappointment to I that many Queen ' s Speeches and King ' s Speeches have include promise of new modern slavery legislation on supply chain , but it have never come forward . will she commit to that ? I have concern about the Fair Work Agency in the new Employment Rights Bill , because it take the Gangmasters and Labour Abuse Authority and put it into a new agency that will not sit underneath the Home Office . vital work be do by the Gangmasters Licensing Authority and then the GLAA , which be bring in for the right reason — we all remember the Morecambe bay cockle picker disaster . we need to ensure that there be proper Home Office oversight of that agency and that it focus on abuse and exploitation , not just on ensure that employment right be meet . we can not continue with two class of victim as we have at the moment . we need to ensure that everyone who be a victim of modern slavery can access the support that they need . could the Minister review the national referral mechanism ? I welcome the extra caseworker , but 831 day on average for a decision be not good enough — she and I both know that . I urge she to do whatever she can , and I will support she every step of the way to make it clear that the national referral mechanism need to make those decision more quickly . we hear great evidence about this on Tuesday in the Select Committee . the UK have a duty to put victim front and centre of everything we do in response to this crime . if we do not put the victim at the heart of our policy response and everything we do , we will simply fail to address this issue . but we also need to lead the global effort . we do lead it , and the time have come for we to get back there . we be look at — people be desperate for the UK to lead on this . they know what we have do in the past and they desperately want we to do it again . that mean work in multilateral organisation such as the United Nations . in particular , we need to ensure that sustainable development goal 8 . 7 be enact around the world . will the Minister make this issue one of those priority ? I know the Government have their mission , and I be sure that I could squeeze it into safe street or something like that . I could find a way to shoehorn this in , but without that support and leadership from the very top , this matter will not get the urgency it need . it be the big human right abuse globally . it be happen everywhere , include in the UK . let we be clear : the high number of victim in the NRM be UK national ; it be not a migration crime . we need to ensure that it have the support and the thrust behind it with the leadership that I know the Minister can give it . I urge she to ensure that the whole of Government do the same . as the only female MP to be sanction by the Chinese Communist party for highlight Uyghur slave labour in supply chain , I will join the right hon . Lady in pay close attention to the Minister ' s response . I congratulate the right hon . member for Staffordshire Moorlands ( Dame Karen Bradley ) on secure the debate . however , I do not thank she for give I that familiar feeling of dread — I be discover that we often get it in this place — when the speaker immediately before make almost identical point to those I have intend to make . perhaps my speech will now be a little short . I draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests and to my position as chair of the all - party parliamentary group on Uyghurs . we be have this debate towards the end of the holy month of Ramadan . across the Uyghur region , Uyghurs will be imprison for observe the fast . when they be imprison , they will be force to eat — often , to eat pork — and they will be force to drink alcohol . where once they might have gather for iftar in mosque , they will find those holy place be now pile of rubble . I have lose count of the number of time I have speak in the House about the crime against humanity that be take place in the Uyghur region , but the right hon . Lady make the really important point that those crime against humanity exist alongside a framework of financial crime . uyghur suffer because their suffering be profitable . of course , there be an ideological element and a religious element to it , but it make the chinese regime a lot of money , so when we see woman be sterilise and rape , child be steal and million of people in labour camp , we can never separate that from the mass slave labour that be go on . early this week in the Chamber we be discuss the role of Uyghur slave labour in the green energy sector , but it be really important to note that it be far from limited to that sector . we speak a lot about the proportion of solar raw material infect by Uyghur slave labour , but that be also true of electric vehicle and cotton . we all remember the remarkable scene recently at the Business and Trade Committee when Shein be simply unable to give convincing answer about whether its product contain slave labour material from the Uyghur region . it be also increasingly clear that the agricultural sector be expose to this , particularly in tomato and pepper . we see household name such as Kraft Heinz , Nestl é and L ' or é al implicate in the use of agricultural product from Xinjiang that we believe have be make with forced labour . this week ' s debate about solar energy and slave labour have a sense of d é j à vu for many of we who have be work on Uyghur slave labour for a long time . we can look back to the Health and Care Bill under the last government and how they be under similar pressure . we will continue to have this debate every time issue of public procurement be raise in the House until we fix our modern slavery legislation . as the right hon . Lady be talk about the legislation , I be think of how it be similar to I : 10 year ago , it be fresh and perhaps a thing of beauty , but now it be tired and show its age . [ interruption . ] I thank the House for the " Noes " there ; that be reassuring . we have to update the modern slavery legislation , not least because much of the rest of the world — ironically , inspire by what we do 10 year ago — have move to update its protection against slave labour good . the right hon . Lady mention the Uyghur Forced Labor Prevention Act in the United States and the due diligence directive and force labour regulation in the EU . on forced labour good come into the UK , the Modern Slavery Act 2015 be simply not design to deal with that issue . the right hon . member for Staffordshire Moorlands speak about the thing that have change in the last decade . few of we would have imagine that industrial slavery involve million of people — think to be a relic of the 19th or early 20th century — would have become so prevalent in the experience of Uyghur Muslims . neither would we have envisage how difficult it would become in Xinjiang to do any sort of due diligence . that be what lead many of we to the argument that there must be a presumption that good from that part of the world have involve modern slavery . because of the Uyghurs , we know the Modern Slavery Act be not work . almost every day , a cargo flight arrive into this country from Ü r ü mqi , the ground zero of slave labour for Uyghurs . section 54 require company with a turnover of more than £ 36 million to produce a statement on slave labour . look back at the last 10 year and see one in 10 company choose not to do that without consequence , it be clear that one of the Act ' s major failing be the lack of a penalty . I also want to talk about justice . we know that the worker who be exploit in place such as Xinjiang will not find justice in their own jurisdiction . under the Modern Slavery Act , neither can they get it here . it be time to say that if a company operate in the UK and be implicate in such human right abuse within its supply chain , there should be an opening for the victim of that to seek justice in the UK court . for those who have try to do that in other case — some of which be live , so I will not raise they — it have take year and real legal struggle to get they hear . in order to be a disincentive for company do the wrong thing , that need to be make easy . as we be talk about the behaviour of company that operate in the UK , after the behaviour of Shein and the spectacle of the evidence give to the Business and Trade Committee , allow that company to register on the stock exchange here would be unthinkable . it would send a signal that this be an economy that be willing to be base on the competitive advantage that come from not pay worker . on the subject of justice , I want to mention the organisation Hope for Justice and particularly my constituent Euan Fraser , who have be a source of real help and advice to I since I be elect . he make the point that back in 2018 , when the Government do their last study of the economic and social impact of modern slavery in the UK , it be cost at £ 4 . 3 billion . might the Minister be able to refresh that and give we a new insight ? will she also be willing to meet Hope for Justice to discuss its proposal for independent modern slavery advocate ? they be individual who can work with survivor and ensure that their legal entitlement be realise , not just on thing such as get justice on slavery , but on housing , immigration and , importantly , compensation , so there be more of a disincentive for company . to conclude , as the right hon . member for Staffordshire Moorlands say , we be try to rebuild the british economy , but we can not do that at the cost of be complicit in the destruction of an entire people . on this 10th anniversary , it be high time to modernise the Modern Slavery Act . I thank the right hon . member for Staffordshire Moorlands ( Dame Karen Bradley ) for secure this important debate . as member , we be all unite by our desire to do as much as we can to tackle the scourge of modern slavery . my constituency be know for many thing , but perhaps less well know for its connection to one of the great battle for human dignity : the abolition of slavery . More than 200 year ago , William Wilberforce , a champion for the abolition of the transatlantic slave trade , live in Wimbledon . just as Wilberforce reject inhumanity in his time , we must renew our commitment to eradicate that injustice in ours , and though his effort be huge , we stand here on the 10th anniversary of the Modern Slavery Act , aware that the fight be far from over . whether in the form of human trafficking , domestic servitude , or criminal , forced or sexual labour , modern slavery pervade our society , treat people as commodity for criminal gain . the introduction of the Modern Slavery Act in 2015 be a watershed moment , hail as innovative and world - lead , echo the UK ' s leadership in abolish the transatlantic slave trade in the 19th century . the Act be design to protect victim , prosecute offender and prevent exploitation at its root . of the nearly 50 million people around the world estimate to be trap in modern slavery , some 120 , 000 of they be think to be resident in the UK . in 2024 , over 19 , 000 potential victim of modern slavery be refer to the Home Office through the national referral mechanism — a 30 % increase on the previous year . horrifyingly , 31 % of all referral last year be child . the Act introduce several key measure , include section 42 to establish the role of the Independent Anti - Slavery Commissioner to encourage good practice in the prevention , detection , investigation and prosecution of modern slavery and to support victim . however , for a staggering 18 month through 2022 and 2023 , while we have three conservative Prime Ministers , we have no Anti - Slavery Commissioner . during that time , engagement between the modern slavery unit and key non - governmental organisation decline . the Government ' s ministerial strategy group — once critical to tackle modern slavery — be disband . it be for that reason that the Lib Dems advocate for Parliament to have a power to appoint an Independent Anti - Slavery Commissioner should the post remain unfilled for three month . we need to do more than simply ensure that the commissioner role be not leave vacant . challenge persist in the effectiveness of the commissioner due to inadequate resource and limited capacity . despite the current commissioner ' s effort since inherit a " dormant office " , the Department remain underfunded and under - resource . without appropriate funding and resource , the commissioner ' s ability to fulfil their legal obligation be clearly compromise . the Modern Slavery Act be praise for introduce provision aim at great transparency in supply chain , with the goal of protect worker and compelling large commercial organisation to eliminate modern slavery from their operation . section 54 require company supply good or service and operate in the UK with a turnover of £ 36 million or more to produce an annual slavery and human trafficking statement . though welcome , section 54 only mandate business to report on their effort to address force labour in supply chain ; it do not require they to act . in fact , simply report no action seem to be all they need to do to comply with the Act . despite the Secretary of State ' s authority to seek injunction on non - compliant organisation , none have be issue . in 2022 , 29 % of eligible organisation fail to submit a modern slavery statement . additionally , the number of statement record the following year drop by almost 50 % , indicate that business be deprioritise compliance . while previous government have express their intention to strengthen section 54 by introduce mandatory reporting requirement and specific penalty for non - compliance , no change have be implement to date . too often , victim be hide in plain sight . it be sober to think that many of we may have encounter they without even realise . recently , for example , the care sector have become a focal point for modern slavery . the inclusion of care worker and home carer on the shortage occupation list make they eligible for the health and care visa . from 2022 to 2023 , the number of health and care visa grant skyrocket , reflect the sector ' s increase reliance on foreign worker . but alongside that growth come a disturbing increase in exploitation , with over 600 % more care sector modern slavery case report . evidence give to the Modern Slavery Act Committee last year report that by the end of 2023 , an alarming 21 % of the 1 , 300 NHS supplier be identify as be at " high risk " of modern slavery . the type of exploitation vary , but one common theme be the charging of illegal recruitment fee . victim be often force to pay as much as £ 30 , 000 for visa application and suppose training course — amount so large that worker often have no choice but to stay trapped in abusive condition . the care sector continue to grapple with systemic issue , include low pay and poor working condition , which be exacerbate by fragmented regulatory oversight spread across agency such as the Care Quality Commission and the Employment Agency Standards Inspectorate . that lack of co - ordination hamper effective enforcement . the Gangmasters and Labour Abuse Authority hold modern slavery investigation power in England and Wales , and receive referral from the CQC , but its remit do not specifically cover the care sector . despite prioritise the sector , the Gangmasters and Labour Abuse Authority struggle with insufficient funding and a low inspector - to - worker ratio , and fall below international standard . as a result , proactive inspection be rare , while many worker fear potential reprisal from report exploitation . the 2022 report of the former special representative of the Organisation for Security and Co - operation in Europe highlight the Gangmasters and Labour Abuse Authority ' s effectiveness in prevent and investigate labour exploitation and protect vulnerable worker , but stress its need for great financial support to fully realise its capacity . the Liberal Democrats have consistently call for a powerful new worker protection enforcement authority to safeguard those in precarious work through intelligence - lead enforcement and a firewall that separate labour standard enforcement from border control . the UK ' s current immigration system exacerbate the vulnerability of migrant worker . the previous Home Affairs Select Committee describe a " de - prioritisation of human trafficking in favour of attention on irregular migration " under the policy of the previous Conservative Government . I warmly acknowledge the fact that the Border Security , Asylum , and Immigration Bill seek to repeal many of the modern slavery provision of the Illegal Migration Act 2023 . I will conclude where I begin . today , we inherit not only Wilberforce ' s legacy but his responsibility . modern slavery may adopt new form , but its cruelty remain the same . it thrive in the shadow of all our community , in the exploitation of the vulnerable and in the complacency of indifference . let we pledge not only to celebrate how far we have come , but to redouble our effort , as there be still far to go . for in remember Wilberforce ' s endeavour , we must find the courage to shape a future in which his campaign to entirely abolish slavery finally achieve its aim . as a child I be teach that 200 year ago we abolish the transatlantic slave trade . as a young adult , I learn that that have not mark the end , and that modern slavery be a booming global industry . then , as I become a young father , I learn through the excellent work of Hope for Justice that there be slave right here in the UK — hide even within my own city . and I learn that many of those slave be child , not unlike my own . I feel a hint of the desperation that I would feel if one of my child have be traffic into slavery — how I would pray that there would be someone to rescue they , someone who would not rest until slave have be find and release . I realise that , for somebody else ' s child , I have to be that someone . fortunately , I be not alone , and 10 year ago this place once again pass legislation to end slavery in our nation . it recognise our duty to eliminate slavery from our supply chain , and it introduce a key revelation to police : that someone present as a perpetrator might in reality be a victim . the world have continue to change , however : our protection have weaken and the challenge have grow . it be estimate that there be 122 , 000 victim of modern slavery in the UK , yet few than 20 , 000 be refer to the national referral mechanism last year . detect modern slavery be hard . it be a crime in which the victim be intrinsically hide — often as invisible and elusive as the perpetrator . the police challenge be unique . furthermore , victim of modern slavery be often force to break the law or be camouflage among legitimate yet exploit worker who be themselves insecure , transient and unrepresented . we be combat highly organised and effective international criminal network — they be agile , opportunistic and embed in our community . our system be vulnerable . it have be too easy for child to disappear . siloed public service be too ineffective in recognise and respond to potential case . our system be divide , and the trafficker have conquer , yet there be hope . once local authority be train in what to look for , they begin to identify victim and , work with partner , can disrupt this crime . if we ensure clearly define and resource role , and be empower to work across multiple organisation and department , we can ensure that these complex crime , which intersect multiple agency , can be detect . we can ensure that victim become survivor , and that perpetrator be convict . we need to work across Government to deliver that . to eliminate slavery , we must no long tolerate exploitation of any kind . this Government have take great step in improve worker ’ right , and that must continue . we must be responsive and fast , keep up with the high international standard in law and human right . the Council of Europe ' s convention on action against trafficking in human being provide a framework that could be adopt broadly . similarly , we must ensure that the requirement for business to audit their supply chain have tooth . the Modern Slavery Act require large business to publish detail of the action that they be take to identify and tackle exploitation in their supply chain ; we now need check , and penalty for failure to effectively keep supply chain free from slavery . like survivor of stalk , domestic abuse and sexual abuse , survivor of modern slavery need access to independent advocacy . we must embed that in our national response , together with long - term holistic support . that be crucial both for survivor ' recovery and to reduce vulnerability to further harm or re - exploitation . we can not treat this problem as business as usual . the world be become increasingly unstable and unpredictable . international conflict and climate pressure be make people vulnerable and provide the perfect condition for trafficker . that be visible in the english channel , but that be just the tip of the iceberg ; what be hide be the ten of thousand of victim live in the fear and despair of slavery right here in our town , city and rural area . we be take firm and decisive action to protect our border , break criminal gang and clear the backlog of immigration case . I recognise the point that the right hon . member for Staffordshire Moorlands ( Dame Karen Bradley ) make about the distinction between people smuggle and human trafficking , but the sector overlap . the action be take be a good start , and I recognise the impressive impact that the Minister and our new Government have already have through our investment in hire an additional 200 modern slavery case worker , but that be smash the iceberg only above the surface . to solve the problem , we need a response that match the scale of the hide challenge . modern slavery be a complex crime that cut across all aspect of government and society , and our response must match it , cut across the whole of Government . I put it to this House that we may already have a golden opportunity . this government have already commit to a fresh approach to governing — one of collaboration , partnership and agility . we be also undertake a historic and ambitious programme of local government reorganisation and devolution of power from Westminster to our region . we have already see programme test and prove that provide a model that we can deploy through local government . the Human Trafficking Foundation have work with nine local authority that have appoint a designate modern slavery co - ordinator . those co - ordinator have deploy training in local authority , improve partnership work , increase the quality and quantity of referral to support , and deliver prevention strategy . the work of these modern slavery co - ordinator have be remarkable . I appreciate the hon . Gentleman give way . I be intervene on he so that I can put it on the record that I be a trustee of the Human Trafficking Foundation . I realise that I do not say that in my opening statement , but I want to be clear about it , and to say that I support all the work that the foundation do . I thank the right hon . Lady for that clarification . in 2023 , there be 218 local authority that make referral use the national referral mechanism for adult . the nine authority with a designate modern slavery co - ordinator position account for 18 % of those referral . that figure rise to 20 % in 2024 . they train thousand of local authority staff and partner and increase confidence rate in report modern slavery from around 45 % to close to 99 % . critically , these measure lead to prosecution . we can learn from that , and devolution be a ripe opportunity to deploy the lesson . it be clear to I that the Government can no long delegate responsibility for modern slavery to a single Department ; we need to build both passive and active immunity into every area . our modern slavery response must saturate our work at both national and local level . alongside that collective duty , dedicated role with cross - organisational link and clear ownership be key . a national strategy that factor in local partnership response would be transformative . an example of this can be see in the devolve decision - make pilot , in which multi - agency team , lead by a local authority , make national referral mechanism decision for child . this approach be over four time fast than the Home Office at make decision , and it encourage information sharing across agency and local partnership work to keep child safe . the success of devolve decision - make panel demonstrate the effectiveness of co - ordinate local effort under a national framework . I welcome the Minister ' s commitment in the recently publish action plan to roll out these panel . local authority already have duty to disrupt modern slavery . with a clear cross - cut partnership approach , facilitate by clear , dedicated local leadership , we could start to build real immunity into our community . we have embrace the mission to deliver a decade of national renewal . a decade of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 have allow we to begin the abolition of modern slavery . we have the tool , but we must not rest . rather , we should recommit ourselves to the most ambitious goal of end slavery in our nation and our supply chain . we can see what need to be do . we have begin ; now we must deliver the collaboration , commitment and resource to do it . there be people in our country who be utterly hide , isolate , fearful and hopeless , but they be not alone . today I urge all in this House to recommit with I ; we will not rest , but will instead forge on , and will do what it take , and what the evidence have teach we to do , in order to find slavery out , prosecute the perpetrator , break the network , and march on until every person be see and slavery be finish . I warmly welcome this debate . I thank the right hon . member for Staffordshire Moorlands ( Dame Karen Bradley ) for secure it and open it , and for her work on this topic . as we have hear from member from all part of the House , while there be something to celebrate in the fact that this legislation be here , there be still much more work to be do to achieve the goal of eliminate slavery entirely . I will take this opportunity to raise two issue with the Minister — issue on which there be work to be do that could strengthen our action on modern slavery and our policy . the first issue relate to check and balance , or review process . in any administrative decision - make process , it be really important that there be opportunity for decision to be review by people with expertise , yet in December 2022 , the then Home Secretary , the right hon . and learn Member for Fareham and Waterlooville ( Suella Braverman ) , disband the multi - agency assurance panel , which play a crucial role . they bring together people with expertise in policy and in tackle modern slavery to review case in which applicant have be reject , in order to ensure that the decision in those case be sound . member from across the House may have receive the same briefing as I from a coalition of dozen of organisation work on modern slavery . I be shocked and surprised to read in that briefing that 70 % of reconsidered negative decision be overturn , so there be clearly an issue with the decision - make process , and clearly a vital role for review mechanism such as the multi - agency assurance panel in check that decision be sound . I would very much welcome the Minister respond to this point in she sum up , and perhaps say whether the Government will consider reinstate those important panel . my second point be about the vulnerability of people on temporary work visa to labour exploitation . prevent labour exploitation in the first place be key . this issue relate particularly to people on overseas domestic worker visa , but it also apply , as the hon . member for Wimbledon ( Mr Kohler ) say , to those in the care sector , which be grow , and to agricultural seasonal worker . the core of this problem be that when the temporary work visa be attach to the employer , there be a strong disincentive for the employee to speak out and report labour exploitation , because they will suffer punishment for do so . that mean that the problem remain hidden , and it make it much more difficult for people to come forward . sensible reform that could tackle the problem have be propose by those work in the sector . for instance , if those work visa be renewable so long as the employment continue , the individual would have a degree of security . however , that would have to go alongside a provision under which , if the employer be subject to an enforcement mechanism for exploitation , the employee be able to remain here and could seek alternative employment and an alternative sponsor for their visa . I understand that that be be do in Australia , where there be now a mechanism for bridge visa to be provide . that ensure a measure of justice in the system , and that those who be subject to exploitation can escape it and find new employment with a non - exploitative employer . those be the two issue that I want to bring to the Minister ' s attention . I look forward to hear her response . I thank the right hon . member for Staffordshire Moorlands ( Dame Karen Bradley ) for secure the debate ; I know she be a great champion for these issue . the Global Slavery Index estimate that 122 , 000 people be live in condition of slavery in the UK , and over 19 , 000 victim be refer to the national referral mechanism in the last year alone . my constituency of Congleton be absolutely beautiful , and most of it have a low crime rate by national standard , but this problem be so widespread that it will be occur in my constituency , because it be occur everywhere . the figure of 122 , 000 people be significant ; that be roughly one and a half time the number of people in my constituency . we often talk in this Chamber about violence against woman and girl . that subject be extremely important , and I will talk about it in the context of modern slavery , but of those who be refer to the national referral mechanism last year , 72 % be man . the people most common refer be UK national . child constitute about 31 % of referral . in 48 % of those case , the referral be for criminal exploitation , and about 78 % of those refer be boy . it be crucial that we keep up the pressure to reduce and remove violence against woman and girl , but it be critical that we be aware of how much violence there still be in society against boy and man . there be lot of different way in which modern slavery occur in the UK , and its diversity make it more difficult to tackle . for man , it often occur in the agricultural and building sector , and in takeaway . the growth in the takeaway sector in the UK mean that large number of takeaway be operate from warehouse , where the worker be completely unseen . many of they be earn incredibly little . if people can order a takeaway for less money than it would cost to cook the same meal at home , the chance be that that have come about through modern slavery . my hon . friend be make an important point about industry such as takeaway be site of modern slavery . in my local council , East Lothian , there have be a pilot scheme look specifically at the takeaway industry , and at what regulation local authority can put in place to allow they to enter premise to see what kind of modern slavery be take place . it be an interesting pilot , and I want to draw her attention and the attention of the House to it . I thank my hon . friend for draw that to my attention ; I be very interested to hear about it . I be pleased to report that the overwhelming majority of takeaway in my constituency remain physical premise that also operate as restaurant , but I be aware that that be not necessarily the case in the whole of my local authority area , and certainly not across the whole country . I be shock when I find out about the large number of child , especially boy , who be be refer , and about what be happen . often , old gang member find vulnerable young boy , some as young as 10 or 11 , and ask they to " look after " some drug for they for a little bit — " could you just hold they for I , very briefly ? " those gang member will then arrange for those boy to be viciously beat up . those boy will then be tell that they have lose the drug and now owe the gang member a whole load of money , and they will be put to work as county line drug dealer from an incredibly young age . it be an absolutely horrific mean of exploit young boy , particularly vulnerable child , and we need to be as aware of it as we be of the way in which groom gang operate around girl . I will move on to how this issue particularly affect woman and girl . I will say one thing : I really , really wish that man — it be predominantly man — would stop use prostitute . could they just stop ? the number of woman be bring to the UK under false pretence and believe that they will do a different form of work , then be put to sex work against their will , keep in physically confine situation that they be not allow to leave and have their passport take away from they be really significant . the other thing that happen be that some woman come here know that that might be an element of their work . if they then complain about it or want to stop , they be tell that their child back home will be harm if they do , so they be unable to go to the police when they be be systematically rape . I say to man : please , please stop use prostitute . I know that cheshire police be take all these issue very seriously and do their good , but the good way to stop we have a market for criminal activity be for people to stop buy criminally trade good , whether that be vape , tobacco , drug or woman . the final element of human trafficking I will talk about be in the care sector . many people in the Chamber have hear I talk about this topic before , so I do not want to labour it , but the Gangmasters and Labour Abuse Authority licensing scheme do not extend to the care sector , so agency and sponsor be seize opportunity to exploit other people for their own financial gain . a lot of people in my community receive care pay for either by the local authority , and therefore by the taxpayer ultimately , or with people ' s life saving . they would be absolutely horrified if they realise the number of people do that work who have be traffic here in the first place . other hon . member have mention the various organisation work in this area , one of which be unseen , which talk about regularly speak on its helpline to member of the care profession who have pay somewhere between £ 11 , 000 and £ 30 , 000 to get here , when they should not be pay anything other than their own travel expense . some 4 % of victim have be threaten with either direct personal harm or harm to their family member . actual , physical harm be report in 2 % of the case that come to that helpline . nearly half of victim describe confinement or restricted movement . the list of thing that have go on be genuinely , absolutely horrendous . I suggest that when the Fair Work Agency take over the GLAA ' s responsibility , we ensure that licensing be bring into this sector or otherwise look at how the visa regime can be change , so that people can transfer between employer , and how we can generally stamp out the level of exploitation in the care sector . I thank everyone who have participate in this debate . I know there be a lot of strong feeling across the House that we can and should do a lot well for vulnerable people in this country . I pay tribute to the right hon . member for Staffordshire Moorlands ( Dame Karen Bradley ) , both for secure this debate and for her legacy in this field . as the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee , her ongoing commitment to the issue be palpable , and I look forward to work with she on it in the year ahead . we be 10 year on from the Modern Slavery Act . while I be not in the habit of praise the Home Office under the previous Conservative Government , I be not so nakedly partisan that I can not break that habit on this occasion . it be true that the UK ' s Modern Slavery Act be world lead . its scottish counterpart , the Human Trafficking and Exploitation ( Scotland ) Act 2015 , which be also 10 year old this year , be equally groundbreake . while we recognise that , we must also admit that although the Act take we two step forward , we have undoubtedly go one step back . the term " modern slavery " and " human trafficking " strike fear into our heart and capture our attention . they sound like the stuff of a tv drama , and frequently they do involve the most horrific , vivid crime in society and the bad of humanity , but we must not let that fool we into think that modern slavery only happen at the extreme , or only in the big metropolitan city far from we — it happen everywhere , in every community and every constituency . as we have hear from several hon . member today , it affect man as well as woman ; its victim be child as well as adult ; it affect british people as much as foreign national , and indeed more than foreign national ; and it be labour exploitation as much as it be sexual exploitation . on my hon . friend ' s point about modern slavery happen everywhere , Carlisle be the most northerly city in England . on 3 October 2018 , officer from Cumbria police , the National Crime Agency , and investigator from the Gangmasters and Labour Abuse Authority free a man who have be keep in captivity on the outskirt of Carlisle for 40 year . he be vulnerable because of his learning disability , and have variously " live " — be keep — in a horse box and in a disused caravan . when he be find , he be in a damp , rotten garden shed with neither heating nor lighting . the window do not close , the water pour through the door , and his makeshift bed be congeal with vomit . do my hon . friend agree that the fact that someone could be keep in such a circumstance for 40 year on the outskirt of one of England ' s city should shame we all , and that we should recommit ourselves to ensure that every single person who might still be in that circumstance be find and free in the same way that that gentleman be ? I thank my hon . friend for make that really important point . I remember read about that case ; it be one of the most horrific one , but there be so many horrific case of modern slavery . it be take place on every high street in Britain , and we have to be completely vigilant about find it everywhere . today , I want to talk about the public policy response to this appalling crime . obviously , it be a dramatic , wicked crime ; we have the blandly name national referral mechanism as our tool , and to be honest , that tool be currently all but break down . in the word of the Home Secretary when she come to the Home Affairs Committee before Christmas , the NRM " have become a bit stuck " . there be huge delay in victim get a decision on the national referral mechanism . we hear evidence this week that the mean waiting time be 831 day . that be beyond unacceptable : it be systemic dysfunction . to be clear , that be not just a number ; it have a real cost . the real - world implication of that number be re - traffic . woman who be traffic for sex and then come to the state for help end up back in the hand of their trafficker because of our delay . child who be lock in house and force to farm cannabis in appalling condition , who then manage to escape and come to we for help , end up back with their torturer because of our sheer incompetence . we should not be congratulate ourselves today on the passage of historic legislation ; we should be hang our head in shame at what be happen on our watch . I hope that today , the Minister will set out a clear plan to clear the backlog , and will also recognise that do so will not be some huge step of progress , but will just get we back to the baseline that we should be at . I draw the House ' s attention to the child trafficking pilot that have be run for the past five year ; I be so glad that my hon . friend the Member for Worcester ( Tom Collins ) refer to it . I should probably declare an interest , as I be involve in set up its scottish iteration , but it be worth our attention , because it have devolve decision making in the NRM to a panel of local stakeholder — people from social work and from education , the police , psychologist and other who know the child ' s case — and empower they to adjudicate whether that child be a victim of traffic or not . it have be extremely successful , with decision take more quickly and with high quality , because the people who know that child ' s case be well place to make a decision than an official in Whitehall . before come here , I work on prevent human trafficking for five year . I know that the issue be complex and difficult , but I also encounter some of the most effective public servant I have ever see in my time , such as the Trafficking Awareness Raising Alliance in Glasgow , lead by Bronagh Andrew , which care for woman traffic into Scotland for commercial sexual exploitation ; and Joy Gillespie , who advocate for survivor of trafficking in Scotland . the most impressive programme I have see in five year of anti - trafficking be this pilot in Glasgow . the Minister and I have correspond on the pilot previously , and I strongly encourage the Government to look at roll it out more broadly . I make two final point about the step that the new Government be take on modern slavery . first , on labour exploitation , the Employment Rights Bill — a landmark piece of legislation that I could not be prouder to support — scrap the Gangmasters and Labour Abuse Authority and establish the Fair Work Agency , as many have say . that be all to the good , but the Fair Work Agency have a mammoth task enforce the minimum wage and employment right across the whole workforce . be we sure it will have the focus and resource to tackle modern slavery , too ? will it have the right relationship with the police , because that will be critical to ensure enforcement ? we must remember that this crime be everywhere and in every community . moreover , when the FWA be up and run , the Home Office will lose sponsorship of the GLAA , and the responsibility will be subsume into the Department for Business and Trade . be that the right place for modern slavery responsibility ? from my experience , I remember the GLAA be significantly under - resource . in order to inspect all of Scotland ' s fishery , agriculture and farming , it have only one inspector . that clearly be not enough . will we have more now ? what plan do the Government have in place to ensure that modern slavery be not deprioritise ? secondly , on the panoply of new development that we have have as the new Government have hit the ground run , there have be some that I have be particularly pleased to see . not only be there the new Fair Work Agency , but cuckooing will be make a specific offence ; grooming will be an aggravating factor in child sex offender prosecution ; and a range of new measure will be introduce to halve violence against woman and girl . I could not welcome those step more , but be there a coherent strategy to ensure they be be fully deploy to tackle modern slavery ? be we marshal the power of Government to target these new measure at the perpetrator of these crime ? when can we expect to see that robust modern slavery strategy ? I ask that because this issue need ministerial grip . without clear ministerial direction , law enforcement can not put resource into it . without law enforcement prioritise the resource , there be no investigation . without investigation , there be no justice . we should think of the woman who come to the british state and ask for help , only for our administrative incompetence to mean she be back in the hand of her trafficker , be pimp out to be rape multiple time every day . we have fail she once already . we need a strategy to ensure that we do not do so again . will that modern slavery strategy take account of new development in modern slavery in the last 10 year ? I be pleased that the hon . member for Wimbledon ( Mr Kohler ) and other mention the exploitation of visa in the care sector , but we be also see that with student visa , the EU settlement scheme and elsewhere . will the new White Paper on legal migration be fully modern slavery - proof so that we do not allow new route to open up ? I note that the Scottish Government have finally get around to refresh their human trafficking strategy . I would argue that be a long overdue step , but it be also a good opportunity to ensure we get coherence across the whole UK . as we mark 10 year since the Modern Slavery Act be pass , it be clear we still have our work cut out for we . I , for one , be willing to work with anyone inside or outside this Chamber to get it do . it be an honour to follow the hon . member who have speak today , all of whom have give such powerful speech . just two day ago , it be 218 year since William Wilberforce cajole this Parliament into lead the way on combat slavery . the Abolition of Slave Trade Act be pass , to a standing ovation , on 25 March 1807 . the Act make it illegal to trade and enslave people across the then british empire . twenty - six year later , another groundbreake piece of legislation , the Slavery Abolition Act 1833 , end the use of enslave labour . however , slavery clearly do not stop , which be why we be talk about it today . modern slavery be just that : a modern version of the slavery we have always know . Slavery be right here , right now . it do not belong to the distant past or to a far - away country . as we have hear , the majority of the people refer to the national referral mechanism be british , and they be often man or boy . as a Parliament , we have to recommit to tackle slavery . as we have hear , modern slavery have spread its tentacle into so many aspect of our life . it be estimate that there be 50 million victim of modern slavery worldwide , include 122 , 000 in our country — the size of the population of Blackpool or Cambridge — so we have to renew our leadership to tackle modern slavery . in my own constituency of Bournemouth East , there will be woman work in nail bar who be enslave . there will be man work on build site who be enslave . there will be mostly woman work in people ' s home as domestic slave , and there will be many other type of servitude go on . the figure that be report be the tip of the iceberg . these people be hide in plain sight , and we need to get the message out that modern slavery be a priority of this Government , this Parliament and this country . in my professional life before become an MP , I support victim of modern slavery by find they and get they to safety quickly . I be the chair of an anti - slavery network for five year , and I lead a mental health , domestic abuse and homelessness charity that have run a modern slavery service — it pioneer an independent trauma advisory role that get support to around 50 victim and survivor of modern slavery . I work alongside fantastic colleague on a report into the nature and extent of modern slavery in Oxford , which use an interesting methodology , beyond the typical reporting of stat from the police force . it work in a case - base way with provider of support , and find that 123 modern slavery crime be record in the Thames valley area in the five - year period that the report look at . however , after draw in the voluntary sector , there be believe to be between 319 and 442 case of modern slavery , show that what be report be not always a true reflection of what be happen , and that our third sector organisation and network be so important in try to tackle modern slavery and support victim . it be worth say that the need to tackle modern slavery have never be great . although this anniversary mark a decade since the Modern Slavery Act , it be also the case that we have see a decade or more of austerity . I say that because some of the people who be enslave will have grow up under austerity and see their sure Start centre and youth centre cut . they will have see their school be able to provide less and less , and see insecure work , low pay and zero - hour contract for their parent . they will be live in home that have not be properly regulate . they have grow up with significant vulnerability . when people grow up with significant vulnerability , they be so susceptible to enslavement — I have see it with my own eye . give the Government ' s agenda on renter reform , reform employment right and make sure that we have investment in our public service , my hope be that we will repair the fabric of society and our public service so that no young person have to fall victim to modern slavery . in my own part of the country , we have see the number of case report to Dorset police go up over the last nine year . there be 65 in 2023 and 108 in 2024 , so we clearly need to take action . with your permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will bring the voice of modern slavery victim into this debate . I want to talk about three case in which my office have support victim . in one case , a person be identify as a potential victim of human trafficking and enter into the national referral mechanism . my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh East and Musselburgh ( Chris Murray ) say that it be quite a bland name for a bland service , and he could not have describe it well . the NRM be break and need serious reform . this individual ' s case have be give a " reasonable ground " decision , but they be still await a " conclusive ground " decision . it be no wonder , give that we have such long wait for decision . do my hon . friend agree that we need to extend the time limit for challenge " reasonable ground " decision ? that limit have be reduce to 30 day , which be not long enough to get help from a legal aid lawyer , give the lack of legal aid funding . my hon . friend make a very good point . particularly in the short term , as the Government be work so hard to get a grip on that delay , that could be a really helpful temporary measure to remove some of the anxiety of victim and some of the difficulty that support service encounter in try to get more and appropriate support for victim . the individual I be just talk about be promise that they would be able to work , but they be instead force to arrive on a visitor visa . after three month in the UK , they become homeless and experience severe mental health issue , include depression , anxiety and suicidal thought , for which they be currently receive medication . they owe a large sum of money , with interest , to the agent who facilitate their travel to the UK , and the agent have warn they not to return home . they have claim asylum in the UK , but it be a life in limbo . in a second case , a former constituent be traffic into the UK while pregnant for forced prostitution . she have now be recognise as a victim of modern slavery and grant asylum . in a third and final case , another female constituent ask for help in seek accommodation follow her escape from an abusive marriage . she have be receive support from the Liberty Project run by the Bournemouth Churches Housing Association , which provide a shelter for woman escape modern slavery in my constituency . why have I mention these three people ? it be not merely because their voice deserve to be hear in this Parliament , but because all of we as mp have have contact with victim and survivor of modern slavery . all of we know from first - hand experience about the pressure and difficulty in the system , and we bring that into how we try to improve the system . I think that be important for the public to know , because I do not think they often know about the casework aspect of what we do , and how it be so important in inform what we do when bring forward legislative change . I mention the Liberty Project run by BCHA , which be a fantastic organisation work across Bournemouth , Christchurch and Poole . it provide safe house accommodation and frontline support to potential survivor through their reflection and recovery period , and here I want to make a plea to the Minister . bcha , like so many organisation , provide trauma - inform , person - centre approach . it be so critical for such organisation to have the fund they need to walk alongside victim who have go through the bad experience of their life , so that they do not have a requirement to tick box , but can sit and listen to people and work with they to recover in the way they need ; to reach a point in their life where they want to be , whether that be in work , training or education . I commend our third sector organisation for what they do , and I ask for additional Government support to prop they up . I know that my hon . friend the Minister be such a firm advocate for the third sector and for victim support , from her lifetime of work in the sector . I want to talk about good come into our country that be infect with slavery , pick up on the comment by my hon . friend the Member for East Renfrewshire ( Blair McDougall ) . I may now refer to he as the " fresh and beautiful " member , as that be how he describe himself — you be not in the Chair for that reflection , Madam Deputy Speaker , which explain why you look so surprised . Bournemouth airport in my constituency be one of two major airport in the UK — the other be Cardiff — where good make by force labour , particularly in China , be come into our country , and we must get a grip of that . I commend Bournemouth ' s Daily Echo for its reporting , which have shine a light on this , and the work of colleague in this House and the other place in try to expose this horrible activity . we need to stop good infect with slavery from come into our country , and I will be call on the Government to do more on that . since come into office nine month ago , the Government have do a fantastic amount of good work . I have mention the reform to the rented sector , the reform to employment right and the investment in our public service , which will prop up vulnerable young life and reduce vulnerability to enslavement . I commend the commitment to combat cuckooing as a specific offence , our commitment to introduce a stand - alone offence of child exploitation , and the creation of the Fair Work Agency through the Employment Rights Bill . I also commend the drive to eradicate the decision backlog , which will come in time as we have hire 200 additional Home Office staff to process modern slavery case . I be also particularly pleased that the modern slavery portfolio be hold by the Minister for safeguarding and violence against woman and girl . I want to close by talk about a really important contributor to the fight against modern slavery : the Co - operative movement . I want to do that by go back in time . in 1864 , Manchester be Cottonopolis : the big industrial city in the world base on cotton . some 90 % of the UK ' s cotton come from the Confederacy and the US civil war be happen at that time . it be also in 1864 that the Lancashire famine be happen and people be die on the street of Manchester . but the weaver write to Abraham Lincoln to say that they be on his side and that they support his fight against slavery . at the time , they be work one - day or two - day week . that be why in Manchester there be a square call Lincoln Square , by the John Dalton Library , with a statue of Abraham Lincoln . in 1864 he write back to the people of Manchester , thank they for their " heroism unknown in any age and any country " . People in Manchester in 1864 bond together to fight slavery , despite the cost to their own life . this country have be a compassionate and kind country , work hard in our community and at Government and Parliament level to tackle modern slavery , but we be now at an inflection point . as we hear from colleague , the world be more unstable , the risk of modern slavery be great , and we need to tackle this issue with UK leadership on the world stage . I thank Baroness May , who 10 year ago do so much to lead the way . I commend the work of the Government , who I know be commit to lead the world on this matter too . that bring we to the Front - Bench contribution . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the right hon . member for Staffordshire Moorlands ( Dame Karen Bradley ) for secure the debate , and for all the work she do in government to give we the Modern Slavery Act 2015 , which we commemorate and build on today . it mean a lot to contribute to a debate on landmark legislation that affirm our country ' s commitment to eradicate this cruel and insidious crime . Slavery be one of the great affront to the fundamental british principle of individual liberty : the principle that no human being should be enslave . it be sad that we need to have a debate to remind ourselves of that : sad that some of my nigerian ancestor might have think debate on the nature and extent of slavery should never have have to happen again ; sad that we be have they in the modern day ; and sad that , as we have discuss , at least 120 , 000 people in the UK be victim and survivor of modern slavery . it be hopeful that Parliament commit , via the 2015 Act and in many other way , to confront the shocking reality that slavery have not be consign to the history book after all . it be hopeful that Parliament acknowledge its moral duty to protect those who be among the most vulnerable in our society ; those who be coerce , manipulate and abuse in condition that no human should ever endure . it be hopeful that Parliament set out clear legal definition , strengthen law enforcement capability , and demand corporate supply chain transparency and action . it be hopeful that since the Act ' s passage , many victim and survivor have be identify and support , with great co - ordination between law enforcement agency , NGOs , local authority , the voluntary sector and more . it be hopeful that we have see milestone conviction of trafficker , and that more survivor have be give a voice and a chance to rebuild their life with dignity and hope . we should be so proud of all those who have play a role in that hope : proud of politician such as the right hon . member for Staffordshire Moorlands , Baroness May and many other ; and proud of statutory authority , such as Sussex Police in my patch and our local authority — and of course their equivalent across the country — for the role they play in combat modern slavery . we should be proud of those civil servant who work across Government behind the scene to make Britain a leader in the fight against modern slavery . I know one of those civil servant particularly well , and I will not embarrass or compromise she by name she , but I know she be watch , and I hope that the like of she know that their backstage effort be just as critical as the work do by those who be front and centre . I be also proud of our voluntary sector for their very direct role in help victim and survivor of modern slavery to rebuild their life with dignity and hope . in particular , I pay tribute to Eastbourne ' s Bramber Bakehouse , lead by the amazing Lucy Butt , which use the medium of bake to empower woman survivor of modern slavery to rebuild their confidence , develop their skill and take a step towards a more fulfilling future . most importantly , I pay tribute to the resilience of those victim and survivor of modern slavery whom this Act , and all of we gather in this Chamber , along with many other who can not be here , be commit to fight for . I be particularly inspire to read about Aisha — that be not her real name — who Lucy and her team at Bramber Bakehouse have support . Aisha be a survivor of human trafficking and subsequently live in a safe house . she say of that time : " every day you just wait in the safe house . day turn into month . you can ' t work and it ' s really isolate . I feel really sad . I have no purpose . " when Bramber Bakehouse offer she a place on its programme alongside other woman survivor , Aisha want to see the good in this but be deeply suspicious about why anybody would pay for she to get on a train to go and bake . her support worker encourage she to give it a go . she say : " get the train feel like a big deal . I have to get ready , I have to be on time . I have my ticket . I suddenly feel independent and that I be get away from it all . I have never bake before … I realise that I could do this . I could actually make something that look and taste amazing . it be therapy without therapy " . throughout the programme , Aisha spend time identify her future goal and practise interview , and in particular , she remember discuss how to see her weakness as strength . I be delighted to say that , several year on , Aisha have secure pay employment in a profession that she enjoy , and on the side she support campaign against modern slavery , give a survivor ' s perspective and campaign for change . I be sure the whole House will join I in pay tribute to Aisha and everyone whose story she represent . a decade on from the passing of the Act , we owe it to the like of Aisha to redouble our ambition to root out modern slavery and ask ourselves , be what we be do now enough ? base on what every Member have say in this debate , we know in our heart of heart that the answer to the question be no — what we be do now be not enough , and we must do more . in particular , the liberal Democrats believe that we must reverse the challenge to modern slavery protection represent by the Illegal Migration Act 2023 , which I know the Government be make progress on , and ensure that all legislation be compatible with the UK ' s international law obligation , include the Council of Europe convention on action against trafficking in human being . we must create more safe and legal route to sanctuary in the UK , take power out of the hand of the people smuggler who , as the right hon . member for Staffordshire Moorlands say , go on to force so many of those who survive the dangerous crossing into life of servitude . we must ensure that county line exploitation be properly recognise as a form of modern slavery . before come to this House , I dedicate my career to support young people who be involve in gang and crime and see this kind of stuff up close . accord to Unseen , one in five people have never hear of county line exploitation — the hon . Member be make a really important point about county line . last week , I visit Vita Nova in Boscombe to see a performance about county line , which have be take into school to raise child ' s awareness about the risk and about what it look like . do he agree that we could be roll out more education about what county line be to school , so that child be well prepared to resist it ? I could not agree more with the hon . member . it be critical that we educate child about the risk factor and what to look out for , and also educate the folk who be spend time support those child — whether they be parent , guardian , carer , teacher or other — to well identify this and then be able to tackle it before it escalate into something that be completely irreversible . we must also ensure that our rightful pursuit of a low - carbon economy be not do on the back of the slave labour of the Uyghurs . this echo the powerful call of my constituent Dorit Oliver - Wolff , who survive the Holocaust . she have write to the Prime Minister , tell he how her father be send to Siberia for slave labour and never return . Dorit have since commit to spend her time say , " never again , " and we must fight to ensure that that be the case . this debate will help to get we there . on Tuesday 8 July 2014 , the then Home Secretary and later Prime Minister , and now the right honourable Baroness May of Maidenhead , stand at the Dispatch Box to present the Modern Slavery Bill , as it be then , on its Second reading . she speak powerfully of those " trick and coerce into a horrendous life of servitude and abuse : woman force into prostitution , rape repeatedly , and deny their liberty ; child groom and sexually exploit for profit ; vulnerable man con into brutal and inhumane work in field , in factory and on fishing vessel ; people force into a life of crime ; " . she talk of sexual violence , beating , humiliation , hunger and mental torture . as she rightly say that day , modern slavery " be an affront not just to those it affect , but to the collective human dignity of all of we . " — [ Official Report , 8 July 2014 ; Vol . 584 , c . 166 . ] the way that some people treat and exploit their fellow human being be , sadly , nothing short of disgusting , and such behaviour have no place in Britain . those be not just word . she act , too , bring forward this legislation — the first of its kind in Europe — which receive Royal Assent a decade and a day ago today . I congratulate my right hon . friend the Member for Staffordshire Moorlands ( Dame Karen Bradley ) on secure this debate today . she have a long and proud history of campaign on this issue . indeed , she be the Home Office Minister for prevent abuse , exploitation and crime at the time of the passage of this Bill and have do considerable work , include with the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association , on stamp out this revolting practice . now , of course , she continue to put her expertise and dedication to protect the vulnerable to excellent use as the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee . my right hon . friend make some powerful point about the need to keep this legislation world - lead , as she have do repeatedly in this House and elsewhere . she speak , for example , of orphanage trafficking and the work that have be do in Australia to tackle it . it be horrify that an estimate 80 % of child live in the world ' s orphanage have at least one live parent but have be separate from their family , sometimes forcibly , to be exploit and use to raise money for corrupt orphanage director . I imagine the Minister , who be also know for her commitment to the victim of these appalling crime , will want to work with she to ensure that our law protect the vulnerable as well as they possibly can . I would like to pay tribute to Baroness May , to my right hon . friend the Member for Staffordshire Moorlands , and to former member of this House who campaign on this issue , include , but not limit to , Anthony Steen , Baron Randall and the late Frank Field . I thank everyone who have contribute to today ' s debate . the hon . member for East Renfrewshire ( Blair McDougall ) speak authoritatively and movingly about the deeply upsetting plight of the Uyghur people and the role that slavery shamefully play in that . I be happy to take this opportunity to reassure he that he be neither tired nor show his age , but his point about the need to keep our law up to date be well make . the hon . member for Wimbledon ( Mr Kohler ) do great credit to the proud history of his constituency in fight the evil of slavery . he be right to speak of the complexity of the british state and the challenge that they pose in tackle modern slavery . in the same vein , the hon . member for Worcester ( Tom Collins ) be right to mention the need for co - ordination across Government and the role that local authority empowerment and responsibility can play in that . the hon . member for North Herefordshire ( Ellie Chowns ) — I hope she will not mind if I take a moment to admire her jacket — ask about decision review and visa flexibility . she and I have somewhat different view on those subject , but I be sure that the Minister will address her question . the hon . member for Congleton ( Mrs Russell ) speak of the shocking role that the vile drug trade can have in trap our young people into cycle of vicious exploitation , and the horror of force prostitution — a form of institutionalise rape . the hon . member for Edinburgh East and Musselburgh ( Chris Murray ) be gracious in his acknowledgement of the hard work of my right hon . friend the Member for Staffordshire Moorlands and the previous Government . he should be proud of his work to prevent human , include child , traffic . finally , the hon . member for Bournemouth East ( Tom Hayes ) touch on several of the point that we have hear this afternoon , include the exploitation of young boy , and rightly remind we again of our long history of kindness as a country . as we reflect on the Modern Slavery Act and its impact , we must ensure that our national compassion and generosity be not exploit by the cynical and the sinister . as my right hon . friend the Member for Croydon South ( Chris Philp ) have say , the Modern Slavery Act ' s noble intention be sometimes sadly abuse by foreign criminal , who rely on suspect claim under the Act to avoid deportation . he have talk of case that he witness at the Home Office of immigration lawyer submit " copy - and - paste claim for different client " with no attempt make to change the detail . he have discuss how , in many instance , very little proof be need , allow illegal migrant and foreign criminal to offer plausible - sound story in lieu of real evidence . that apply even in case where migrant have previously explicitly deny that they be victim of modern slavery . the number of modern slavery claim have go from around 3 , 000 in 2015 to over 19 , 000 in 2025 . three quarter of those make claim be not UK citizen . the most frequent referral route for modern slavery claim be now through the immigration system . by the end of 2022 , of those migrant who arrive illegally in the UK by small boat each year and be subsequently detain for return , between half and three quarter be claim to be victim of modern slavery . in 2023 , it be report that 1 , 068 albanian convict live in Britain be await deportation , among they sexual predator , violent thug and drug dealer . of the group , nearly a third — 345 — actively claim to be modern slave , hope to escape removal . the abuse of the Modern Slavery Act , where it do happen , be not just a perversion of the Act ' s noble intention but an insult to this country ' s compassion and a deplorable diversion of vital resource from real victim . we must set an appropriate threshold for support evidence to ensure that the system rightly prioritise the true victim , rather than struggle under the weight of claim design to frustrate immigration proceeding . many of the claim make under the Modern Slavery Act be genuine plea for help from those in the most frightening and shocking situation of abuse . we must ensure that the Act be keep up to date to protect they . I begin by congratulate my right hon . friend — I do not wish anyone to think that she have cross the Floor ; she be just my friend — the Member for Staffordshire Moorlands ( Dame Karen Bradley ) on secure this debate . as have be comment , this topic be very close to my heart , as it be to hers . her passion and insight come through very clearly as she speak , and I be grateful to she and everyone who have contribute . like she , I have a long - stand interest in these issue . they have be a feature of my work since before I come to this House . in fact , I spend many hour in meeting in Marsham Street as somebody run one of the support service in preparation for the Bill . it be truly something to be celebrate . when the Modern Slavery Act be pass , it be a hugely significant step . I commend the right hon . Lady on her role in make that happen , alongside the then Home Secretary — now Baroness May of Maidenhead — and all the parliamentarian who have be mention . I be not a politician who generally get carry away about legislation — I care about outcome , rather than word on a page — but that really be a landmark moment , as much for the message that it send about our determination to fight modern slavery and exploitation at home and abroad as for the measure that it introduce . the 10th anniversary of the Act give we an opportunity to reflect on the progress that we have make and the significant challenge that remain . the UK be once at the forefront of the fight against modern slavery , and I would very much like to see we in that role again . before I come on to how we make that happen , I will tell a story , because many people have talk about victim in their constituency , and about misconception about victim of modern slavery . like many people , I support many victim of modern slavery in my constituency . I invite a young woman who have be a victim of sexual exploitation and modern slavery to an event that I be take my son to , because she be feel particularly down . when she be get into the car , I warn my son that she be a victim of modern slavery and human trafficking . after spend a full day with she , my son say to I , " but Mom , I don ' t understand . she be british . I didn ' t think you could be a victim of modern slavery if you be british . " there be many misconception about who be use our service , and we have to ensure that it be right for all of they . victim be wait too long for conclusive ground decision , and we know how detrimental that be to their wellbeing and recovery . that be why I have make clear the decision - make backlog a personal priority . our new staff start arrive in December , and I give they the task of eradicate the backlog by December 2026 . in a few short month , we have hire more than 100 new staff , and as of last month , the backlog be half the size it be at its bad in 2022 . that be what real effort look like — not endless talking , not empty commitment , not apathy , but concrete , focus action to deliver result for victim and survivor with compassion and care . we have take meaningful step to decouple the issue of immigration and modern slavery , and I be pleased that modern slavery have return to my portfolio as the safeguarding Minister . I can confirm that the Border Security , Asylum and Immigration Bill will repeal the modern slavery provision link to the duty to remove in the Illegal Migration Act 2023 . that will ensure that there be no blanket ban on irregular migrant seek modern slavery protection . on the point make by the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Weald of Kent ( Katie Lam ) , by no means do that mean that anybody can claim to be a victim of modern slavery . for a start , people can not refer themselves into our system for modern slavery ; only Border Force , local authority , the Salvation Army and the police can make referral , and it be up to those agency to ensure that referral be make appropriately . our manifesto recognise the need to strengthen the response to serious exploitation . the new offence of child criminal exploitation have be include in the Crime and Policing Bill , alongside preventive order , to provide great protection to child who be be exploit by criminal . we will also strengthen and streamline domestic labour market enforcement through the creation of the Fair Work Agency , which will provide a more cohesive response . I hear the concern about the Gangmasters and Labour Abuse Authority move into that agency . all I can say to hon . member at the moment be that by no means do the creation of the Fair Work Agency mean that my responsibility as Minister in charge of modern slavery be remove from scrutiny of what happen in the Fair Work Agency . it will just make more work for I in a different Government Department . I understand the concern on the subject , but the Fair Work Agency will have great power and resource to do work that so many people have talk about today . on Monday , I launch new statutory guidance on transparency in supply chain , which provide practical and comprehensive advice for business , so that they can go far , fast , in their fight against modern slavery . we be collaborate with our international partner , too . I recently travel to Romania to strengthen our joint approach to tackle these awful crime . I say to my hon . friend the Member for Congleton ( Mrs Russell ) that while I be there , I meet a woman who have be traffic to my constituency from Romania , via Paris and London , into prostitution . I therefore very much lend my voice to what my hon . Friend say about wish people would just stop sleep with prostitute , because that be exploitation of those woman . the story that they tell I in Romania be absolutely harrowing . we be also work on a joint action plan with Vietnam ; I will be able to share more information on that in due course . those be all important step that we have try to take in the eight month we have be in office , but there be so much more to do . to support that , we have develop the modern slavery action plan in collaboration with the non - governmental organisation sector and criminal justice partner . the plan set out the first step of our ambitious vision for tackle modern slavery at its root and reform the whole system . it reinforce our commitment to work across Government , civil society , business and international partner to prevent exploitation , protect victim and pursue those who be responsible for such heinous crime . to answer the question about whether the NRM be stuck , not work and need reform , we will soon launch a public consultation on how the Government can improve the process of identify victim of modern slavery . if I do nothing else , the reform of the NRM be something that I feel fairly certain I can commit to . it be not work ; the system do not work . I say to the right hon . member for Staffordshire Moorlands : NRM reform ? yes , please . let we take part in the consultation ; no doubt her Committee will . on there be a two - tier system of protection for victim — the right hon . Lady also talk about this — that be an absolute reality that I recognise . I have see that directly from my work . the issue mention by more hon . member than any other be transparency in supply chain and the need to go far . as I have say , we be do whatever we can in the meantime , in lieu of new legislation , to ensure that we be improve the system that we have , and make report well and more transparent . however , I hear the call very clearly . like the right hon . Lady , I have be wait for a piece of modern slavery legislation . it have be promise in every speech , whether King ' s or Queen ' s , but be yet to come . with regard to that , nothing be currently off the table for member who want to work with the Government on that . I make special mention of the Uyghur Muslims , who have be mention time and again in this House , and the real need for we to act robustly , especially as we see other country advance in this space , so that our country do not become a flooded area — a place where thing can happen that can not happen in the European Union , or among our partner in the US . my hon . friend the Member for East Renfrewshire ( Blair McDougall ) , who be look great — it seem like we all have to say that — and other Members mention Hope for Justice . Hope for Justice be very much part of the core group of those we take advice from in the Department , and I speak to Euan regularly . I have meet the victim navigator that many people refer to , and see the absolute value of they . many people mention devolve decision making . I be completely convinced , as a policymaker , that we should seek to expand devolved decision making as regard child — that be far more preferable . on the review panel , the hon . member for North Herefordshire ( Ellie Chowns ) say that 70 % of decision to turn down case be overturn , which somewhat suggest that there be no need for a review , because the review system already overturn the decision . I be not without sympathy on the point about the review panel ; it be not something that have be particularly raise with I by the sector expert I work in concert with , but I will take that away . as for temporary worker and domestic visa , I be very much alive to the issue of domestic worker visa , and the way that domestic worker have be force through the NRM potentially unfairly and incorrectly . I be also quite alive to the idea that we have a visa system in our country that allow incredibly rich people to bring domestic worker with they . I have a busy job , and I cook my own dinner . as a feminist , I have a keen eye on the whole system of domestic work servitude . I think I have answer all the question ask of I . it please I that there be still huge enthusiasm in this place for push the issue forward , as there be 10 year ago . that will only ever be rival by the enthusiasm in the other place . I be glad that I be not the Minister speak on this exact subject in the debate there tomorrow , because the member there be a fierce force . I expect progress to be make on this issue , and I look forward to work with everybody here on all the issue . I hope that people feel that we be open to suggestion , and to work together , as I think we be when we first get there on the legislation . I start by refer to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , which I fail to do in my opening speech . I be worried that I may have just talk about thing that I have an interest in without refer to that interest , so I have do that now . I also pay tribute to you , Madam Deputy Speaker , because you be a member of the Bill Committee , and be an integral part of deliver this legislation ; we be there together , go through this . it have be a fantastic debate . I thank everybody who have take part , and I will briefly try to mention all of they . I say to the hon . member for East Renfrewshire ( Blair McDougall ) that thing of beauty be many and varied , but his commitment to the cause of the Uyghurs can not be doubt , and I look forward to work with he on the matter . the hon . member for Wimbledon ( Mr Kohler ) , who be an active member of the Home Affairs Committee , speak well about his previous constituent Wilberforce . he also mention the resource for the Independent Anti - Slavery Commissioner , and I again pay tribute to all those who have hold the role : Eleanor Lyons , who be in the role now , Kevin Hyland and Dame Sara Thornton , who have do amazing work . the hon . member for Worcester ( Tom Collins ) , who be an active member of the APPG , speak movingly about the human reaction , and note that we can not take the emotion out of the issue . the point that the hon . member for North Herefordshire ( Ellie Chowns ) make about immigration status be so important . immigration status be such a vulnerability , and we need to be careful . if the Minister want to get rid of overseas domestic worker visa , she have an advocate in I . my neighbour the hon . member for Congleton ( Mrs Russell ) and I share many of the same issue . we share a border , and criminal cross that border , so we need to work together . she be also an active member of the all - party group . the hon . member for Edinburgh East and Musselburgh ( Chris Murray ) — another active and excellent member of the Home Affairs Committee — really know what he be talk about . I want to talk to he about independent child trafficking advocate , because we want they roll out everywhere . the final Back - Bench contribution be from the hon . member for Bournemouth East ( Tom Hayes ) , who talk about his great experience . it be wonderful that we have so much experience in this House . I thank everybody for take part . the voice of the victim have come through in the debate , and we must never , ever forget they . I want to work across the party on this issue , as we always have , to keep deliver for those victim . we owe it to they . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider the tenth anniversary of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 . double british Summer Time Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Vicky Foxcroft . ) spring be in the air , and it be almost time for a familiar ritual . on Sunday , the clock will go forward by an hour , and our evening will become light overnight as british summer time begin . frankly , each time the clock go forward and back , it be a bit of a faff . I think we have all look in confusion at the clock on the car dashboard , try to remember how on earth to change it . I understand that clock mechanic will be carry out the task of adjust the time on more than 2 , 000 clock across the parliamentary estate , include on Big Ben — no mean feat ! I have to say that I be always a lot happy with the spring clock change than with the autumn one , which plunge our community into long evening of darkness . be this the right time system for today ? I think it be time to talk about time . it be in 1907 that the first serious proposal for daylight saving time be make in Britain . angry at the lack of daylight during summer morning , a campaigner by the name of William Willett self - publish a pamphlet call " the Waste of Daylight " . although he do not live to see his proposal enact , british summer time be first establish during world war one by the Summer Time Act 1916 , which be still in force today . however , it be the experiment during the second world war — british double summer time — to which I would like to turn today . as Britain face peril , Winston Churchill take the decision to move the clock two hour in advance of Greenwich mean time in the summer and one hour in advance of GMT during the winter month . why ? to save energy . the crisis at the time mean that bold idea be require . we need to think outside the box . today we face a different emergency — the climate crisis — but one for which the same prescription could really help . I believe that we should learn the lesson of wartime Britain and move to double summer time : one hour ahead of GMT in the winter and two hour ahead in the summer month . we know that we must cut our emission and reduce our reliance on fossil fuel . we have a Labour Government who be seize the moment , through great British Energy — our new , publicly own clean energy company — and by retrofit home to help family to save money on their energy bill and reduce emission as the warm home plan accelerate . another immediate , practical and effective way to cut emission could be to make well use of the daylight that we have . by choose Churchill time , we can reduce our energy use and lower our carbon footprint . when it be light in the evening , household and business switch on light and heating later . that small shift , spread across million of home , add up to a significant difference . researcher at the University of Cambridge find that an extra daily hour of sunlight in winter evening could save £ 485 million in electricity bill each year . they calculate a saving of 6 GWh of energy per winter day . it would reduce carbon dioxide pollution by at least 447 , 000 tonne each year , which be equivalent to more than 50 , 000 car drive all the way around the world . evidence from Queen ' s University Belfast show that Churchill time would reduce evening peak energy demand by up to 10 % — roughly 5 GW of electricity take off the grid during the busy time of day — offer significant reduction in energy cost and emission . all that be great news for the planet . light evening mean more time spend outdoors , in park or on walk . they mean more time visit caf é s and pub on our high street , give local business , particularly in the hospitality and retail sector , a much - need boost . when the sun set at 4 o ' clock , people rush home ; they do not linger in our town centre or high street or stop for a coffee . when the sun set at 5 pm or 6 pm , we change the rhythm of our day . we create opportunity for commerce , connection and community . that would especially be the case in autumn half term . in 2011 , the British Association of Leisure Parks , Piers and Attractions claim that light evening would increase tourism earning by between £ 2 . 5 billion and £ 3 . 5 billion and would bring increase tax revenue and have a positive impact on the UK ' s balance of payment , particularly from overseas visitor . this week , the Tourism Alliance tell I that there be a real case for Churchill time to boost tourism in the so - call shoulder season , help more visitor to enjoy everything our amazing country have to offer all year round , which mean job and growth . some will ask , " what about the morning ? Don ' t we need light in the morning ? " those be fair question . however , the evidence tell we that the cost of dark evening be high than the cost of dark morning . study show that road collision increase by 19 % in the two week after the clock go back in October . the Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents point out that during the work week , accident be always high in the afternoon / evening peak than in the morning peak . for much of the winter , during that most dangerous afternoon / evening peak , about an hour and a half be currently in darkness . this change would more than halve that . similarly , the AA estimate that around 100 life a year would be save by reduce accident in the dark evening . Brake , the road safety charity , tell I ahead of this debate that with five people kill on our road every day , more strategy that reduce road death and injury can only be a positive thing . change to light evening could prevent hundred of accident and injury every year . that be not just statistic ; it be life protect , hospital bed free up and family spare tragedy . the result would be few injury , less pressure on our emergency service and reduce strain on our national health service . Sunshine cheer we up , too . accord to the NHS , a lack of sunlight may lead to low serotonin level , which be link to feeling of depression . get outside have many mood - boost benefit . " surely the health , the refreshment , the happiness of such a gift can not be overestimate ! " — [ Official Report , 8 May 1916 ; Vol . 82 , c . 305 . ] that be what the then hon . member for Blackburn say in this place back in 1916 when debate daylight save time . lament the waste of daylight , he ask your predecessor , Madam Deputy Speaker , if there could " be a more wasteful , more unhygienic , more senseless proceeding " — [ Official Report , 8 May 1916 ; Vol . 82 , c . 304 . ] I will not go quite that far . simply put , I believe that we should make the most of what we have . I urge the Minister to consider let we spring forward to a greener and bright future . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Dunstable and Leighton Buzzard ( Alex Mayer ) for secure this debate . I be grateful for her insight and remark on this important topic , which , as she explain , impact on everyone ' s live in one way or another . she describe the clock change as a bit of a faff , which I think we can all appreciate . she then go on to discuss the reason she advocate for this change in great detail . in my remark , I will go on to explain why there be also potential negative to what be be propose . as my hon . friend mention , seasonal clock change be first propose in the early 1900 to extend daylight hour for recreation , to improve health and to save on lighting cost . at the time , clock be set to Greenwich mean time all year round , result in early sunrise and sunset in the summer . the idea gain traction during the first world war because of the need to conserve coal , which lead to the adoption of change in 1916 . biannual clock change have continue ever since , with a brief deviation from the pattern during the second world war , when double british summer time be introduce , and between 1968 and 1972 , when the clock be put forward but not back as part of an experiment . I think those be also the first four year of my parent ' marriage , an experiment that thankfully have last much long . it be eventually discontinue , however , due to inconclusive result regard its effect on road casualty . about 70 country worldwide currently adopt some form of daylight save . british summer time be the UK ' s version of european summer time , which follow the same pattern by change the clock twice a year by one hour . this synchronisation allow for smooth transaction in trade , travel and communication across Europe . the Government be aware that the issue of daylight saving have , at time , attract extensive public and political debate , with suggestion to adopt british double summer time . british double summer time be introduce for a short period during the second world war , as I have mention . by extend daylight hour into the evening , it reduce the need for artificial lighting , thereby conserve fuel . introduce british double summer time would result in clock remain one hour ahead of Greenwich mean time in the winter and move two hour ahead in the summer . by observe british summer time , the UK maintain a one - hour difference with european country throughout the year . this would not be the case under british double summer time . use Germany as an example , the time difference with it would vary between winter and summer . in winter , both the UK and Germany would be one hour ahead of GMT , result in no time difference . during summer , the UK would be one hour ahead of Germany . the Government believe that the current daylight save arrangement represent the optimal use of the available daylight across the UK . change the current arrangement would impact all citizen in the UK and Northern Ireland and would require public consultation and assessment of the impact on business across all sector of the economy . as my hon . friend have mention , there would of course be benefit to move to double british summer time . we know that dark hour exacerbate mental health condition , particularly seasonal affective disorder . the short day and reduce natural daylight , as a result of clock change , can worsen symptom accord to the charity Change Mental Health . we also know that there be evidence that enforce clock change can disrupt sleep health , especially in a forward direction such as that which currently occur in March — and will be happen again in three day ' time . however , we also know from the British Sleep Society that natural daylight in the morning be critical for alignment of our internal body clock . move to double british summer time would cause dark morning , especially in winter . we be also aware of some evidence that abolish clock change would reduce road accident . analysis from the RAC Foundation and Road Safety Analysis show that between 2012 and 2017 there be a 2 % increase in road accident over the two fortnightly period when the clock change take place . in term of energy use , keep to GMT plus 1 during the winter month might be expect to reduce overall energy use , as people use less artificial light in the evening . however , the effect be likely to be small in magnitude , and may even be uncertain — there might be no effect at all . the most significant effect be likely to be associate with lighting demand as demand switch from the evening to the morning . while there might be some benefit , there would be a risk of the UK energy system be affect by the time zone choice of neighbouring country with which it trade gas and electricity . for example , the time difference between the UK and France mean that peak demand be stagger across the two country and allow for interconnector to play a role in meet peak demand throughout the year . this result in low energy generation require in Great Britain and low price for consumer . if the time difference be to change , that could have impact across the energy system , include on the benefit assume from interconnection . there might also be road safety impact . advance the clock in spring create a short - term disruption in sleep pattern , which can cause fatigue . this can lead to inattention , poor decision making and delay reaction time , all of which be contribute factor to road traffic accident . summer time arrangement have lead to concern about the disrupt biorhythm of animal , with respect to change milk and feed schedule , although of course these impact be expect to be reduce due to the deployment of new equipment , artificial lighting and automated technology . the approach to daylight saving be a complex area , give the importance of just - in - time supply chain to many industry . many sector and business , example in the aviation industry , would need considerable notice of any such change . there have be examination of all this in the past . follow a call for evidence , the House of Lords report " clock change : be it time for change ? " find that the abolition of seasonal change of time in the UK in any circumstance would require adjustment in sector range from transport to energy and software development . such adjustment would bring some transition cost , which could be burdensome for industry when scheduling , especially internationally , which would be a concern , particularly for aviation . in that report , the European Union Committee conclude that it do not receive compelling evidence to suggest that the current system of seasonal change be problematic for the UK , while note that there be a lack of contemporary study on the subject . move to double british summer time would create a time border between Ireland and Northern Ireland , if Ireland maintain its current approach to time . that non - alignment could cause problem for transport , particularly aviation , tourism , trade and business in general , with high impact if there be only a part - year alignment . this view be not only hold by UK industry and represent body ; it be also report in EU and non - EU country ' response to a 2018 European Commission consultation . in the UK , seasonal change of time facilitate light evening for over half the year and reduce morning darkness in winter . the latter effect be particularly pronounce in northern part of the UK , especially Scotland . double british summer time in the north of Scotland would mean no daylight in the winter before 10 am , while in the rest of Scotland sunrise would be at 9 am . opponent of change point out that in Scotland child would have to travel to and from school in darkness . as point out by the Scottish Government in their write evidence to the Lords Committee , farm vehicle and other large vehicle would spend more time on the road during the hour of darkness , far add to the risk . in 2012 the Department for Business , Innovation and Skills publish a review of the scope , quality and robustness of available evidence regard clock change . the review find that there be challenge in look at the overall picture of the impact that might occur across a range of issue , include energy consumption and road traffic accident . to conclude , this Government will always listen carefully to any argument that be put forward around how to mitigate challenge and provide support , particularly in area such as mental health . we appreciate the concern raise about the potential impact of clock change on mental health and road safety , and we will always welcome view on how we can enhance our exist measure and initiative . as set out in our " get Britain work " White Paper , the Government be commit to expand access to NHS talk therapy for adult with common mental health condition such as depression , include seasonal affective disorder . this Government treat road safety with the utmost seriousness , and we be commit to reduce the number of those kill and injure on our road . my ministerial colleague at the Department for Transport be develop the first road safety strategy in over a decade , and will set out more detail in due course . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Dunstable and Leighton Buzzard again for secure the debate . she have raise some interesting point , but the evidence for the case for change be not overwhelming . however , I will take this opportunity to remind everyone that the clock go forward on Sunday , and it be also Mother ' s Day . question put and agree to . House adjourn .