business before question King ' s Speech ( answer to Address ) the Vice - Chamberlain of the household report to the House , that his Majesty , have be attend with its Address of 17th July , be pleased to receive the same very graciously and give the follow answer : I have receive with great satisfaction the dutiful and loyal expression of your thank for the speech with which I open the present Session of Parliament . chair of the Electoral Commission I have receive your Humble Address pray that I should re - appoint John Pullinger CB as the Chair of the Electoral Commission with effect from 1 May 2025 for the period end on 30 April 2029 . I will comply with your request . parliamentary Commissioner for Administration and Health Service Commissioner for England I have receive your Humble Address pray that I should appoint Paula Sussex CBE to the office of Parliamentary Commissioner for Administration and Health Service Commissioner for England . I will comply with your request . oral Answers to Questions Housing , Communities and Local Government the Secretary of State be ask — New Unitary Authorities what step her Department be take to help prevent new unitary authority from require exceptional financial support . local government reorganisation will lead to well outcome for resident and save a significant amount of money that can be reinveste in public service and improve accountability . it be for council to develop robust , financially sustainable proposal that be in the good interest of their whole area . the rush local government reorganisation mean that Waverley borough in my area will be force to join other authority that be debt - ridden , such as Woking . what will the Secretary of State do to ensure that resident in my area do not pay a financial price for the woe of other authority ? as set out in the invitation letter , and as with previous restructure , there be no proposal for council debt to be address centrally or write off as part of reorganisation , but the Government accept that Woking and Thurrock council hold significant unsupported debt that can not be manage locally in its entirety . we have commit to provide an initial amount of debt repayment support for these council in 2026 - 27 ahead of the reorganisation . this be unprecedented government support . I have be contact by constituent who be concern by medium comment over the last week that suggest that the Planning and Infrastructure Bill may render site of special scientific interest protection meaningless . will the Secretary of State clarify the Bill ' s position on this and outline what protection there will be for sssi like Lodge hill in my constituency with its important nightingale population ? I be sure that those on the Conservative Benches have an interest in area of natural beauty as well , and I be sure that the Minister for Housing and Planning will address this point when we discuss the Planning and Infrastructure Bill later today . we take natural beauty and history seriously , and we think that the Bill will be able to do nature recovery and enable we to build the house that we desperately need . order . I remind member to look at the question on the Order Paper and make sure that their supplementary question be relate to it . Leasehold Reform what step she plan to take to reform the leasehold system . what step she plan to take to reform the leasehold system . what step she plan to take to reform the leasehold system . the Government continue to progress the implementation of the reform to the leasehold system that be already in statute , while at the same time undertake the work require to bring forward the wide set of reform necessary to end the feudal leasehold system for good . we remain on track to deliver our ambitious leasehold and commonhold reform agenda , as set out in the write ministerial statement that I make on 21 November last year . I thank the Minister for his positive engagement with I on the issue of a safe crossing at road on the Wynyard and Queensgate estate in my constituency , but can I also bring to his attention the issue of service charge at the Willow Sage Court estate ? do he agree that our leasehold reform must ensure fair service charge ? I can send he further information about this case if he wish . I thank my hon . friend for raise that point , and I would like further information on that case . the Government recognise the considerable financial strain that rise service charge place on leaseholder and tenant . overcharge through service charge be completely unacceptable . we intend to consult in the very near future on the measure in the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Act 2024 design to drive up the transparency of service charge to make they more easily challengeable if leaseholder consider they to be unreasonable . I congratulate the Government on the bold action they be take to end the feudal leasehold system for good , which will ensure that future flat owner will never again be treat as second - class homeowner . but as the Minister be well aware , there be million of exist leaseholder , include thousand in my constituency of Hendon . will he update the House on the work the Department be do , build on the path forward outline in the commonhold White Paper , to strengthen protection for exist leaseholder , include on the conversion of leasehold , ground rent and right to manage ? the Government remain committed to provide exist leaseholder with great right , power and protection over their home . we commence the right - to - manage measure contain in the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Act 2024 on 3 March . we remain firmly committed to tackle unregulated and unaffordable ground rent , and we will deliver that in legislation . we will set out further detail on our propose approach to enable the conversion of exist leasehold to commonhold in our draft leasehold and commonhold reform Bill later this year . inflation - bust estate management fee for little or no service plague resident across the country , include those of the Brackenleigh , Greymoor Meadows and Denton Mill estate in my Carlisle constituency . what assurance can the Minister give my constituent and those of other hon . member that the Government ' s action will curb those atrocious practice by estate management company ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that point ; I recognise that many hon . member across the House be affect by this issue . the Government remain committed to protect residential freeholder on private and mixed tenure housing estate from unfair charge . we will consult this year on implement the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Act ' s new consumer protection provision for the million of home subject to the charge affect my hon . friend ' s constituent , and we will bring measure into force as quickly as possible thereafter . I be glad to see the Government start to tackle some of these issue . will the Minister assure I that people on freehold housing estate with covenant issue in place like Basildon and Billericay will also be include in any legislation ? they often face service charge increase of ten of per cent every single year , and they need that same assurance be provide to leaseholder that the Government will think about that and take action . I assure the right hon . Gentleman that the Government be think about the plight of residential freeholder alongside leaseholder . as I just say , we will consult this year on implement the provision in the 2024 Act , which provide those residential freeholder with new consumer protection provision . they will have that immediate safety to come in , as we look at how we reduce the prevalence of such arrangement in the long term . leaseholder at South View on Upperton Road in Eastbourne face an extortionate bill of up to £ 40 , 000 each to repair unsafe balcony . the communication from Morgans and Stredder Pearce , who be both responsible for fix that , have be woeful , and delay be lead to cost spiral far . will the Minister urge those organisation to improve the speed and responsiveness of their communication to protect south View ' s leaseholder from further cost ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise that case . I recognise the problem that he allude to . we want to bring in as soon as possible measure to standardise service charge in particular and make they more transparent . I wonder if he might write to I and the Under - Secretary of State for Housing , Communities and Local Government , my hon . friend the Member for Nottingham North and Kimberley ( Alex Norris ) , who be responsible for build safety , with detail of that case so that we can look into it far . developer be now create facility and management company , with new homeowner and tenant find themselves as shareholder without their consent . will the Minister look at that issue across the country to protect those homeowner ? if I have understand the hon . Gentleman correctly , he point to how a variety of arrangement can be put in place under freehold estate ; we need to capture that variety across the country . that be one of the challenge in look at what measure we might bring forward to reduce the prevalence of such arrangement , and we certainly intend to do that . I call the shadow Minister . the last Government pass the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Act , support by the then opposition . Labour say in the King ' s Speech that it would go far with reform and quickly . then , the Minister say that would take the whole of this Parliament . now , the secondary legislation need , as well as the consultation pende , mean that leaseholder be unlikely to see any reform quickly . last week , the Government say that primary legislation may now be need without implement the law already pass . be that not just another example of the Government promise one thing but now flail around , delay and break key promise they make , while leaseholder across the country suffer ? I must say that the shadow Minister be develop a bit of a habit here ; he seem to have conflate a number of separate issue . the Government have a very clear commitment to end the feudal leasehold system within this Parliament . that require a wide set of reform than switch on the power that be already on the statute book via the 2024 Act , though we be go to do that and be do so at pace . if he care to look at the write ministerial statement where I set all this out in a lot of detail , he would see that we remain on track with implement our reform agenda . Council Housing Repairs : fund if she will make an assessment of the adequacy of the funding model for the repair of council housing stock . the Government recognise the strain place on housing revenue account as a result of change in rent policy , inflationary pressure and increase cost associate with invest in exist stock . the principle of self - financing remain the right one , but we be commit to work with council to overcome the pressure on their hra so that they can invest in new and exist stock . will the Minister join I in praise Swindon borough council for its fantastic vision in invest in fix our council stock — something the previous conservative administration fail to do for 20 year ? I certainly will . my hon . friend be a fantastic champion for council housing and highlight that Swindon borough council be put significant investment into its housing stock over the next five year . the Government recognise that council , like other register provider , need support to build their capacity . that be why we consult last year on a new five - year social housing rent settlement and have allow council to keep 100 % of the receipt generate by right - to - buy sale . we will set out detail of further investment in the forthcoming spending review . in Kendal on Friday afternoon , I come across a constituent in a Home Housing property who have be the victim of a house fire several month ago . although they be still live in the property , it have not be fully restore or fix . I be on the matter personally and deal with the casework issue ; if I share the detail of this case with the Minister , will he take a personal interest in it , and do he agree that it be outrageous for someone to have to live in a fire - damage property for five month without it be properly restore ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise that case . it do sound outrageous ; if he write to I , I will certainly look into the matter far . support for High Streets what step she be take to support high street . what step she be take to support high street . what step she be take to support high street . the Government be commit to rejuvenate high street by empower local community . through the £ 1 . 5 billion plan for neighbourhood , we be provide flexible funding to support our most challenge community . we be also tackle vacancy with high street rental auction and legislate for a new community right to buy to support community ownership . heswall in my Wirral West constituency be a brilliant place to live and deserve a thriving high street , but unfortunately for too many year now beloved shop have close and decline have feel inevitable . the people of Heswall deserve well . I appreciate the Minister ' s answer , but will he go far in explain exactly how my constituent can take back control of their high street , so that it can thrive once again and deliver growth and opportunity for they ? this Government understand the unique challenge that Heswall face , include as a coastal community . that be why we be drive power and funding out of Westminster to ensure that no community be leave behind . just last week my right hon . friend the Chancellor announce £ 1 . 6 billion in funding for the Liverpool city region , include £ 100 million to upgrade the bus network , which be vital for connectivity to my hon . friend ' s community . I understand that those upgrade will begin in the Wirral next year , and I encourage Wirral council , as I do all local authority , to take advantage of the new power the Government have introduce to reoccupy the empty shop that be such a blight on our high street . I be elect to this place on the back of a pledge to revitalise the town in my constituency . with the high street in St Austell in a sorry state , I be delighted to have be able to take the first step towards revitalise it by end the impasse at the site of the now derelict General Wolfe pub and move my constituency office back into town at the other end of the street . however , the fact remain that the high street be on its knee , and many resident feel that our once great town could do much well . what step be the Minister take to ensure that significant resource be available , beyond just the plan for neighbourhood , to revitalise town in constituency like mine ? I can say to my hon . friend ' s constituent that he be make good on that election commitment , because we have have this conversation on multiple occasion . like all future funding , the Government will set out their long - term vision for local growth at the multi - year spending review ; but in this year , the recently communicate UK share prosperity fund announcement include more than £ 47 million for Cornwall and the Isles of Scilly — a mixture of revenue and capital funding to ensure that place can get go and kick - start economic growth locally , bring town such as his into play . in my Sherwood Forest constituency , high street be the beat heart of town such as Ollerton and Hucknall . Ollerton be set to receive record funding from this Labour Government , and I thank the Minister for that . however , Hucknall be badly let down by the previous Government , with false promise of funding that quite simply do not exist . will he meet I to discuss how this Labour Government can support the future of Hucknall , enable it to be the glorious high street it once be ? I fully share my hon . friend ' s anger about the unfunded commitment to Hucknall from the previous Government . I know how disappointing that have be locally . I be pleased we have be able to reprioritise some funding within extremely tight budget to give the support that she talk about . as she know , I live only two tram stop from Hucknall , and of course I would be keen to pop on the tram and see she — and if we meet in the Plough , I would be doubly keen . either way , I will be make sure I get to see she . in 2017 , I meet parent of child with severe disability in my constituency . a lack of suitable toilet and change facility make it almost impossible for those family to enjoy a day out , and I have be inspire to campaign for more change place toilet ever since . I recently open a change place toilet just off Leyburn High Street , which will improve accessibility across Wensleydale . will the Minister join I in thank everyone involve and commit to support more change place toilet across the country , so that family can have both the opportunity and the dignity that they deserve ? I share the right hon . Gentleman ' s enthusiasm for change place toilet , which have their root in Nottingham . frankly , people will not be able to access the amenity on their high street if they do not feel they can leave their home without those facility . I share his enthusiasm and commend he and his community . he sell himself slightly short , however , because I recall that when he be a Minister in this Department , he change the rule and building regulation to make it easy to develop such toilet , and as Chancellor he make funding available for more as well . I would like to take this opportunity to recognise that and to praise he and the community of Wensleydale . house in multiple occupation throughout Broxbourne — on our high street in particular — be cause my constituent lot of issue . what will the Minister do to review the power that my local council of East Herts and Broxbourne have to stop hmo where we do not want they ? this be a really important question . the future mix of our high street will undoubtably include , yes , traditional retail but also leisure and accommodation . that footfall can be a good thing , but if this be not well planned or well organise , and if community be not bring along , it will not succeed . I be conscious that we have the Planning and Infrastructure Bill proceeding ahead of we today , and I be sure the hon . Gentleman will find an opportunity to make that case to the Minister for Housing and Planning . in 2025 - 26 , Surrey Heath business will contribute more than £ 30 million in business rate to Surrey borough council , but because of central Government tariffing , only 2 . 5 % of those business rate will be retain locally . there be a reasonable expectation that locally raise taxis should remain local , so with local government reorganisation on its way , could the Secretary of State and the Front Bench team reassure Surrey Heath business that they might have a chance of retain more of those business rate that should be invest back into our high street ? the hon . Gentleman will be aware of the change we have make to ensure that there be discount on business rate for certain business this year , with further commitment to come at the Budget . he make the right point . of course I can not announce that outside the Budget , but we will consider those point carefully . I call the shadow Minister . our high street and small business have be hammer by this Government , with big increase in the cost of business rate and national insurance contribution . can the Minister tell the House what measure he and the team have put forward to the Chancellor of the Exchequer to help our small business and high street in the spending review ? the hon . Gentleman offer I two opportunity there . first , we talk about challenge on the high street , but I remind the House of the more than a decade of starve demand because the economic policy of the Conservatives and all the impact that have , follow by — [ interruption . ] the stag do on the Opposition Front Bench be make their rattle as usual , but they be all present during that disastrous fiscal event that lead to the increase cost that we be still cope with now . the second temptation the hon . Gentleman give I be the opportunity to resign by leak detail of the spending review here first . sadly , I will give no succour there . every high street need a Chorley market . that be the answer . new Homes : minimum epc Rating what step she be take to ensure that new home meet the minimum standard of EPC C rating . the December 2021 uplift to energy - efficiency standard mean that most new build home already achieve EPC rating of A or b . as recently announce , the Government intend to introduce future standard in the autumn that will set more ambitious energy - efficiency and carbon emission requirement for new home to ensure that they be net zero - ready . as well as energy , water be an important utility . in Ely and East Cambridgeshire , we suffer drought and flood . what be the Minister do to encourage new build to have proper rainwater harvesting and dual piping , so that we can use rainwater to flush our toilet and for other non - drink water use ? we be look at how we might make household water use more efficient , as well as a range of other intervention in my hon . friend ' s part of the country to ensure that we make the good use of water and that the necessary infrastructure be put in place to accommodate housing growth . in Hartlepool , 24 , 000 exist home have an energy performance certificate rating of d or below . that mean too many home be too cold and have bill that be too high . what can the Minister do to accelerate the improvement of those home to ensure warm home for Hartlepool constituent ? my hon . friend tempt I into the responsibility of another Department , but I will get the relevant Minister from the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero to write to he to set out what measure be be put in place as part of the warm home plan . in 2010 , just 12 % of home have an EPC c rating or above , so those home be too cold and have bill that be too high . it be 60 % by 2024 when we leave power . will the Minister share with the House the ambition and give we a number for the percentage of home that we should expect to have that basic EPC c rating by the end of this term , which I hope will be the only one the Minister have , so he should make a difference while he can ? [ laughter . ] that ' s a bit harsh . the right hon . Gentleman be certainly not charitable . as I make clear , I recognise the December 2021 uplift in energy efficiency standard mean that most new build that come through achieve an EPC rating of A or b . off the top of my head , though I stand to be correct , I think about 84 % of new home meet those standard . but as I say , we have announce that we want to introduce future standard this autumn , which will drive even more ambitious energy efficiency and carbon emission requirement for new home . have long campaign on the need for much tough regulation for solar panel on new home , I be delighted to hear the Government announce last Friday that we will bring forward requirement to do exactly that . that will not just boost EPC rating , but save new homeowner thousand of pound in bill , all while reduce energy usage . how can we ensure that we move at speed so that as many of the new home we build over the course of this Parliament as possible will benefit from our ambition here ? my hon . friend have be a champion of ensure that we get more solar panel on to new build home and other type of building . as I say in answer to a previous question , we want to move at pace to put future standard in place . we be look at this autumn , and that will ensure more of the new home come forward meet those more ambitious standard . it will mean , as he be aware , that the vast majority of new build home have solar panel on they as standard . Regeneration Funding : Scotland what assessment she have make of the potential impact of UK Government regeneration funding on town in Scotland . the Government ' s define mission be deliver economic growth and drive up living standard . that be why we be invest up to £ 200 million across 10 scottish town over 10 year to support regeneration , tackle inequality and unleash their full potential . that will empower local community , improve public service and create new opportunity . that is , of course , alongside the share prosperity fund , which be invest £ 4 . 4 million in Fife this year . many time I have raise with the Minister , as well as with Business and Treasury Ministers , the need for regeneration funding for Kirkcaldy High Street . the brilliant people of our town deserve a modern town centre that make the most of our incredible seafront and all it have to offer . ahead of the spending review this week , can the Minister assure I that my message have be hear ? will he also join I in congratulate Davy Russell , Labour ' s new MSP and a strong campaigner for his high street ? the people of Hamilton , Larkhall and Stonehouse have choose well . I can assure the hon . Lady , her constituent and the House that I do not think a week have go by without she push I on Kirkcaldy town centre . she know that I can not run ahead of any multi - year spending review that may be upon we soon , but the point she make , and always make to I , be a good one . I of course associate myself with her comment about Davy . rise — Order . I will just say that supplementary question should aim to relate to the original question . this be about funding in Scotland , so I be sure that the hon . Gentleman ' s question will be purely about that . the Minister be right to point out the need for regeneration for town in Scotland . last week , the Government agree in this Chamber to fund for England and Wales . that leave only one part of the United Kingdom leave out : Northern Ireland . [ laughter . ] what will be do to ensure that Northern Ireland get the same as the other three administration ? just answer the Scotland bit please , Minister . the hon . Gentleman know that I talk with my counterpart in all the devolved government , include Scotland and Northern Ireland , and I will continue to do so . the shared prosperity fund be a sign of our commitment in that direction . we will , I be sure , see future plan shortly . construction Sector Specialist Apprentices whether her Department be take step with independent training college to train construction sector specialist apprentice to support house building target . the Government recognise the need to expand and upskill the construction workforce to meet our ambitious plan - for - change milestone of deliver 1 . 5 million safe and decent home in this Parliament . we be work closely with industry to provide high - quality house building training opportunity , and we welcome the £ 140 million industry investment late last year in 32 pioneer new home building skill hub , which will create up to 5 , 000 more construction apprenticeship per year . the construction skill village in Scarborough be an innovative real - world training environment for the specialist trade that we desperately need to build home . do the Minister acknowledge the importance of independent training provider in our plan to build 1 . 5 million new home , and will he meet I to discuss how we can ensure that itp , which deliver the specialist skill that the construction industry be ask for , be include in our plan to train 60 , 000 new construction worker ? the Government be invest significant amount of money to train more construction worker . we appreciate fully the importance of independent training provider in train the workforce need to deliver more home across England . I suggest that my hon . friend and I find time to meet Baroness Smith from the Department for Education to discuss matter relate to itp , include the csv in my hon . friend ' s constituency . I welcome the Minister ' s commitment to support skill training in the construction sector . do he agree that skill training need to be particularly focus on the sustainable skill , and will he join I in congratulate the low - carbon technology training centre in my constituency , as well as the new university in Hereford — its first cohort of engineer graduate just last month ? do he welcome such initiative , and will the Government put more funding into support the construction and engineering skill that our building sector will need ? I hope that the hon . Lady recognise that we be put significant amount of investment into construction skill . in the spring statement , the Government announce a £ 600 million investment that will recruit an additional 60 , 000 construction worker by 2029 . I be more than happy to recognise the contribution make by initiative of the sort that she mention in her constituency . we absolutely need skill across the build environment to meet our target . Social Housing Supply if she will take step through the spending review to increase social housing supply . what step she be take to build more social and affordable home . in our first eight month in office , we have announce £ 800 million in new funding for the affordable home programme and £ 2 billion as a down payment on future investment . the previous Government hand back precious cash for social and affordable home . this government will get those home build . the Chancellor will set out detail of new investment at the spending review . I very much welcome the Secretary of State ' s commitment to social and affordable housing . I know that she will be concern by the new analysis by the National Housing Federation , which find that local authority in England with the most severe shortage of social housing now have waiting list exceed 100 year for a family - sized social home . with nearly 6 , 000 people on the waiting list in Salford alone , will she outline what support she will give local authority and the social housing sector to deliver desperately need social home ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . we have a housing crisis in this country , and it be feel particularly acutely by those who need social and council housing . that be why we have be absolutely clear that we want to deliver the big increase to social and affordable housing in a generation . we have already outline a number of measure , include allow council to retain 100 % of right - to - buy receipt and make long - term funding settlement for rent . we have set out the investment that we have put into the sector , but we will say more at the spending review . have access to a safe and secure home be a basic human need , but the Tories absolutely ignore this when they cut Government funding by £ 4 . 8 billion in just five year , and Derby have suffer the consequence . last year , waiting list for social housing in our city reach record high . what step be the Secretary of State take to lift people stick on these waiting list out of limbo and into good social housing ? my hon . friend be a great champion for Derby and many member across this House can understand the acute pressure he mention . the fact be we have not be build enough home , and we certainly have not be build enough social home . therefore , we have already set out some step , as I mention briefly early , around the right to buy receipt , and we be consult on new long - term rent settlement to give provider confidence to build , and we will be invest billion of pound into social housing . I can not pre - empt the spending review this week but the Chancellor will set out more then . when a developer pledge to build 40 % minimum of affordable housing and obtain outline planning permission on the basis of that pledge , and then , less than 20 month later , seek to reduce the 40 % to 0 % , be that acceptable ? I be not go to stray into individual case , but what I will say be that since gain office this Government have confirm the change to the national planning policy framework , in particular around section 106 , to ensure that when developer seek planning permission and pledge that they be go to do something , they be keep to those pledge . my constituency be see approximately 60 , 000 new home be build across the Basildon and Thurrock area . Basildon hospital be consistently run at 98 % capacity , and a school I visit today , which I be very proud to see in such a good state , have roughly 1 , 100 pupil application for 300 available space each year . along with housing , my constituent be deeply concerned about the level of infrastructure be develop and the state of the exist infrastructure . what reassurance can minister give they about those concern ? come back to the point that we do need housing , include social and council housing , we have be clear in the change that we have be make , include in the Planning and Infrastructure Bill , to ensure that that infrastructure be there , because that be one of the barrier lead to people reject some proposal because the transport connectivity and the facility be not available . therefore this Government be commit to ensure we get the right type of development that support local need and also , importantly , have the infrastructure alongside it . I call the shadow Minister . the Deputy Prime Minister have repeatedly stick to her commitment that 1 . 5 million home , include social home , will be build over the lifetime of this Parliament despite everybody know that she will not achieve it . and today , the late people to say she will not are Savills , who have forecast that the true number she will build over this Parliament be just 840 , 000 , and that mean few social home too . now that she have emerge from the dark room of the Treasury to capitulate to the Chancellor , will the Deputy Prime Minister confirm that more social home and 1 . 5 million new home will be build by the end of this Parliament : yes or no ? the opposition can not have it both way : one way they be say we be fail to build the home ; and the other way they be say we be concrete over the green belt . we say that planning reform alone will not deliver our ambition , which be why we have commit to deliver the big increase in social and affordable house building in a generation . and I say to the hon . member , as I have say to many people in my life , underestimate I at your peril . I call the Liberal Democrats spokesperson . Jess in my constituency have all her possession and bag put on the pavement outside the hotel and be lock out of her bedroom with her baby by hotel management — shock behaviour on their part . with £ 2 billion be spend by local authority on temporary accommodation , would it not be well to have a national target for the number of social home that be go to be build ? what step will the Government be take to set such a target ? I be disgusted to hear about what happen to that young person and her baby — that be absolutely terrible . the number of people , particularly child , who be in temporary accommodation at the moment be shocking , which be why this Government be commit to the big wave of social and affordable housing in a generation . we have not put a particular number on that , not least because we do not have the spending review result — they be come later this week — but we be clear that we want that number to ramp up and we need that proportion to meet the target of 1 . 5 million new home , so I ask the hon . member to wait just a little bit long . Local Authority Funding what progress her Department have make on provide adequate funding for local authority as part of the fair funding review . what step her Department be take to help ensure that council be financially stable . what step her Department be take to help ensure that council be financially stable . what step her Department be take to ensure that council in area with high level of deprivation receive adequate funding . the Government have deliver a settlement that begin to fix the foundation and make available over £ 69 billion in 2025 - 26 . in 2026 - 27 , an improved approach will direct funding where it be need most and provide certainty through the first multi - year settlement in over a decade . leicestershire , alongside other authority , have be campaign for fair funding in recent year , follow 14 year of poor funding settlement by the last government , mean cut to vital service . a lack of fair funding also mean that school in North West Leicestershire have some of the low level of funding per student in the country . how will the Minister approach a fair funding settlement that consider the unique challenge face by rural community ? I thank my hon . friend for her work in champion those issue . we be fundamentally reform how we assess council ' relative need and resource , to ensure that funding be distribute to where it be need most . that include account for council ' ability to raise resource locally , which the previous Government promise to do but ultimately fail to do in balance the number . target funding in that way will enable council that have have to scale back service the most to be able to catch up and to ensure that everybody , across the whole of England , be able to access decent public service . despite an increase in council tax of 27 % since 2022 , £ 136 million in exceptional financial support this year and brutal cut to service , Croydon council ' s finance remain broken . as an outer - London borough with inner - London problem , Croydon have historically not receive the funding it need to cover the cost for demand - lead service like temporary accommodation , so even if Croydon ' s debt be wipe out , it would still need exceptional financial support . will the Minister outline how council like Croydon will get the resource they need to meet the complex challenge they face and provide the frontline service that our community deserve ? the question that have be raise demonstrate why the fair funding review be need , and why it have to take into account all the different factor that have an impact on whether council can provide good public service or not . I appreciate , understand and accept that pressure that be previously feel in inner London be now feel in outer London , and in rural area too . my hon . friend will know that in February we provide £ 136 million in EFS support for Croydon council , and we will continue to work with it . we have meet and talk about the issue a number of time , and I know that she understand that those be not small problem to deal with . the statutory override to special educational need and disability deficit come to an end in just 10 month . without a plan from the Government for the end of the statutory override , more than half of all local education authority face effective bankruptcy . the need for a resolution to the issue be now long overdue . when do the Minister expect to be able to give local authority the certainty they need ? we be lay the groundwork now , ahead of the provisional settlement , which will be the first multi - year settlement in over a decade and will deal with a lot of the structural issue . if it be any help , the Government understand and accept that it be not right or acceptable for council that have do everything that have be ask of they and provide good public service , particularly for young people , to find themselves at the financial cliff edge as a result . we have an absolute commitment to work through those issue . pocket of deprivation in many rural community , like my South West Norfolk constituency , be often mask by more affluent surrounding . will the Minister reassure I that financial support from the Government for local council in rural area reflect those concern about isolated deprivation ? this month , we be consult on an update assessment of need that we will implement from 2026 - 27 . importantly , that include the index of multiple deprivation , a designate national statistic , and it will drill down to deprivation level of between 400 and 1 , 200 household in each of those unit . our intention be to address the issue find in the pocket of deprivation in every community , include rural and coastal community where they be sometimes drown out because of the sea of affluence around they . it be important that we get to deprivation wherever it exist . as an outer London borough , Havering have be hugely disadvantage by a funding formula base on outdated population figure . we hear today that the Mayor of London himself be concern that this Labour Government will level down London altogether . will the Minister confirm that the fair funding review will report by this summer — I have be tell that previously by a Minister — and will specifically address the disparity between inner and outer London ? I can absolutely assure the hon . member that we be work through those issue , and we will consult the sector on they . give all the variation that we will take into account , I hope member accept that we have listen . we know that the funding formula be out of date and that for it to stand the test it must apply wherever member represent , whether in coastal community , rural community , inner or outer London or anywhere else in between . I assure the hon . member that we be get on with that work . Shropshire council ' s finance have be leave on the brink by 16 year of conservative administration . it be the large landlocked county in England , and it be struggle with about 85 % of its budget be spend on social care . when the Minister do his fair funding review , will he look at the difficulty and costliness of deliver service over such a wide rural area and ensure that council such as Shropshire , which have lose its rural service delivery grant , will be able to sustain themselves in the future ? we make available an additional £ 5 billion as part of the settlement , and £ 3 . 7 billion of that be for social care . we understand the pressure and we be direct money to address they , but we know that this issue will take more than one year to fix . we be on with the fair funding review — the third multi - year settlement in a decade — to begin to fix the foundation . we have definitely hear call from rural community and council to take into account the additional cost for rurality and remoteness , and I assure the hon . Lady that those issue be be look at . one way of ensure that new unitary authority such as those for Leicestershire have adequate funding be to base that funding on robust business case . give that the Department be five week late in provide feedback to the local authority , will the Minister commit to extend the deadline to ensure that those local authority have the time that they need to build up those plan ? in all area , there be more than adequate time to prepare final proposal . council in the devolution priority programme have until September , and all other — the majority — have until November . that be more than adequate time for council to be able to marshal and get their plan together and make an assessment on that basis . it have be report that the Birmingham bin strike may last until December . how can this Government claim to support worker when they refuse to fund Birmingham city council properly ? this dispute boil down to cash , yet the Government be fail Birmingham ' s bin worker , resident and business . the Government back our steelworker . will they back the bin worker with extra funding ? I hear what the hon . Gentleman say . on the call that we have with mps when we update they on these issue , his tone be quite different . we need to separate the rhetoric from the reality . the reality be that for the first time we have £ 600 million in the recovery grant , which be about those council suffer high deprivation and historically low tax basis . Birmingham be the big beneficiary of that , receive nearly £ 40 million . I call the shadow Minister . the Minister know from his time at the Local Government Association of the impact that asylum have on the budget of local authority . with the Home Office ' s much - vaunted increase in the grant rate for asylum claim , the Government be push thousand of household on to council waiting list and shunt million in cost on to council tax payer . what additional funding and measure do he aim to secure to help to mitigate those cost , which be affect so many of our local authority ? quite frankly , it be a bit rich for any shadow Minister to critique the current system when the Conservatives deliberately design it in their 14 year in government . the question be how we go about repair it . one thing must absolutely be put right ; the disjointed system in which different Government Departments work in silos can not carry on . one of the success of the leader ’ council be that for , the first time ever , local government leader be around the table with the Government , include in a meeting with the Home Office and our Department , to work through exactly those issue . that be the change : for the first time , those in local government be be treat as adult . topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . as the Planning and Infrastructure Bill enter its remain stage in the Commons , I thank my hon . friend the Housing Minister and Members across the House for their continue work on this important piece of legislation that will get Britain build again . this weekend mark the eighth anniversary of the Grenfell tower fire . I know that I speak for all member of this House when I say that the 72 man , woman and child who lose their life at Grenfell will never be forget . we have accept the inquiry ' s finding , and will take action on all 58 recommendation to build a more robust and trust regulatory system that will deliver safe , quality home for everyone . many of my constituent be concerned that too often new estate go up without the necessary infrastructure , whether that be school , GP surgery or even playground . do the Secretary of State agree that it be vital to address that issue , and can she elaborate on how we will do so after too many year of inaction ? I absolutely agree with my hon . friend . the Government be commit to strengthen the system of developer contribution to ensure that new development provide the necessary infrastructure that community expect . we will set out further detail in due course . early I mention the change to the national planning policy framework that be announce in December , and we will also support the increase provision and modernisation of various type of public infrastructure . I call the shadow Secretary of State . as the Secretary of State have say , Saturday mark the eighth anniversary of the Grenfell tragedy . as she know , I can confirm to she that I will work constructively with she and her colleague to deliver remediation , build safety and the good outcome for local community . the previous Government commit over £ 5 billion for remediation ; will the Secretary of State confirm that the spending review will continue to provide such financial support ? will she also confirm that she will meet the previous Government ' s pledge to co - fund with the Royal Borough of Kensington and Chelsea the renovation of the Lancaster West estate , and that the £ 85 million from central Government need and promise to finish the work will be provide ? I thank the shadow Secretary of State for the constructive way in which he have approach this issue . we all remember what happen at Grenfell and the work that the previous Government do , and we be continue that work , as outline in phase 2 of the recommendation . the building Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Nottingham North and Kimberley ( Alex Norris ) have be meet — as I have — member of the community , RBKC and other to make sure we continue on that journey . I hesitate to say , though , that the previous Government make a lot of promise that be challenging . we will always put safety first , and we be work to ensure that we deliver on that . I know that the Secretary of State have have some difficult negotiation this weekend with her colleague the Chancellor . the spending review be critical for the funding of the affordable home budget . in the past , the Secretary of State have praise the Chancellor ' s generosity , as she put it , not least for provide the extra £ 2 billion for the affordable home budget , but will she admit today that that budget be decrease from previous level under our government ? will she say — even if it be after the spending review — exactly how many affordable and social home she expect to deliver during this Parliament ? the shadow Secretary of State have be call a bit later than the hon . member for Hamble Valley ( Paul Holmes ) , for whom I outline the reason we have not put an exact figure on that and confirm that we will build the big increase in affordable and social housing in a generation . I say gently to the shadow Secretary of State that we be deliver for work people by ban no - fault eviction and introduce groundbreake protection for renter , which the Conservatives promise but do not deliver . we be introduce major planning reform to build 1 . 5 million home ; they promise 1 . 6 million home , but could not get anywhere . we be also deliver the large ever single package of devolution measure , push power out of Westminster . we be deliver where the Conservatives fail . we be very good at grow thing in South Norfolk , include food , business and thriving community . however , if we want our young people to share in that success , we need to plant a new town in my constituency . will the Minister meet I to discuss how we will achieve that ? I do not blame my hon . friend for try , but for good reason we establish an independent expert advisory panel — the new town taskforce — to make recommendation to Ministers on the location and delivery of new town . the taskforce will submit its final report to Ministers in the come month . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . resident in Wellington , in Castlemoat Place in Taunton and in Agar Grove — homebuyer — be just some of a sample who have come to I , raise the scandal of house builder not properly finish the building they have create , leave they unsafe . what step will the Minister take to bring forward measure to ensure that house builder repair and make safe their property urgently , without people have to wait year ? I be grateful for that question , which raise something mirror in many part of this country . the duty to make sure that home be safe be the responsibility of builder and owner . where they fall short , there be legal power for the local authority and for the fire and rescue service to compel they to change . as with all hon . and right hon . colleague across the House , I would be happy to help , if I can , with any specific example that the hon . Gentleman have . there be no doubt about it ; we face a climate emergency . what plan do the Government have to increase funding for the fire service to meet the increase and project increase in wildfire and flooding incident ? if funding be to be increase , what will that mean for the Scottish Fire and Rescue Service ? as my hon . friend rightly identify , fire be a devolved matter . in England , stand - alone fire and rescue authority will see an increase in core spending power of nearly £ 70 million in 2025 - 26 . those fire and rescue authority be require to plan for foreseeable risk in their area , include wildfire and flooding , and to decide where to direct resource . on co - operation , I assure he , as I do the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , that I be talk to my counterpart in the devolved Government to make sure that we be tackle common problem and share that insight . in the light of some worry small - site application on previously undeveloped green - belt land in my constituency , and of concern from the campaign to protect Rural England , will the Minister undertake to monitor and assess the initial impact of the new grey - belt provision and look at refine the wording , to avoid salami - slicing of the green belt ? no . we be confident that the protection in place for the green belt — the test that have to be meet for grey - belt release — be robust . it be ultimately for local planning authority to conduct green - belt review and to bring forward those site as part of local plan . across London , 90 , 000 child be live in temporary accommodation , deny the essential of a stable home , which have terrible consequence for their physical and mental health and education . this be a scandalous inheritance from the previous Conservative Government . when do the Secretary of State believe that we will begin to see those number drop substantially ? we have invest almost £ 1 billion in tackle homelessness and rough sleeping , and we have recognise the scandal of temporary accommodation , which we inherit . we be take action to ensure that there be a cross - government strategy to get we back on track to end homelessness . Oxton in my constituency have a newly refurbish community shop , and it exist thank to the hard work of local volunteer . the Plunkett impact report highlight how community - own shop be at the centre of the local economy . what be the Government do to support the ownership of community shop ? I thank the hon . gentleman for the opportunity to talk about community ownership of those locally love asset . we know such place endure during difficult time ; they provide good employment for local people and they normally employ a more diverse workforce base . we be pleased in the previous round to get money out to a number of scheme through the community ownership fund . we will legislate for an improved community right to buy , too . we be very much align in this space on the exceptional importance of community ownership . I thank the Minister for his previous response , and I be glad to see that Cornwall ' s socioeconomic challenge be reflect in the fact that 11 mission priority neighbourhood have be identify in mid - Cornwall alone . we have talk about funding for mission critical neighbourhood , but what step be be take to ensure that those mission priority neighbourhood — deprive area that fall just short of that mission critical definition — get adequate investment , too ? in addition to my previous answer , my hon . friend will have hear I talk about the importance of target resource at deprivation and need . I think that be the right approach to funding . it also go a bit beyond funding , to power , which all community can benefit from . whether it be high street rental auction , an enhanced community right to buy , local planning process or local community take those opportunity to shape place , local authority be important in that conversation . I know my hon . friend be push his in that regard . it have be estimate , and report , that billion - worth of unspent community infrastructure levy may be available at local authority level for investment in critical infrastructure . will the Minister ensure that the money be invest in road and drainage , so it can deliver the improvement that our resident deserve ? there be legitimate reason why developer contribution can be hold by local authority — for example , so that they can complete phase development , or bring forward other site over a period of time — but we be aware that certain local authority hold , in some case , significant sum , and we be give the matter some attention . the Shared Health Foundation recently publish a vital report on child live in temporary accommodation , which reveal the scandalous fact that all too often , child live in such accommodation be not safe , secure or able to thrive . do the Minister agree that it fall to this Labour Government to fix that wrong , on which there have be silence for too long ? my hon . friend be right . we have inherit record level of homelessness and rough sleeping , but this Government be determined to take action and address those challenge . through the third round of the local authority housing fund , we be provide council with half a billion pound to house some of the most vulnerable people in the country , and have announce an injection of £ 2 billion to deliver up to 18 , 000 new affordable social home . I be confident that the Secretary of State love the pub as much as you and I do , Mr Speaker , but the job tax and the slashing of business rate relief have deliver a hammer blow to pub such as the Barrel in Walkington , own by thwaite , and to hospitality business such as the Beverley Arms hotel . have the Secretary of State make representation to the Chancellor ahead of Wednesday to ensure that more landlord be not force to call last order ? I might like a pint ; and wouldn ' t he like to know ? People have live in Earsdon View in my constituency for more than 15 year , but the estate remain unadopted due to an ongoing issue between the landowner , Northumberland Estates , and the developer , Bellway , involve the securing of sewer adoption . I continue to press all party to resolve the problem , but how can we ensure that people be not leave in this situation for decade , often pay management fee on top of council tax , and that developer deliver ? my hon . friend have be a doughty champion of leaseholder and residential freeholder in her constituency . we must start to provide the consumer protection that be already on the statute book , but as I have make clear , we be determined to end the injustice of fleecehold entirely , and will consult later this year on legislative and policy option to reduce the prevalence of private estate management arrangement . I broadly support unitarisation on a strategic scale , but I be concerned about how historic debt will be treat in Surrey , especially those of Woking and Spelthorne council . how will those debt be handle as our council come together , and will the Minister assure my constituent in Virginia Water and Englefield Green , in the well - run borough of Runnymede , that they will not foot the bill for this as part of the reorganisation ? that be one of the reason why the Surrey arrangement be accelerate . we recognise the lack of balance between the debt liability and the asset and income . we also recognise that the unitarie would have to be financially viable , and we be well on track to deliver that , in partnership with the local council . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . I welcome the enhanced protection for tenant in the Renters ' Rights Bill , but datum from the Londoner show that for London tenant , there be only one enforcement officer per 7 , 500 private rent home . give the new enforcement burden that the Bill place on council , will the Minister please ensure that they have the resource to protect private tenant ? my hon . friend will know that in the Bill we have take a " polluter pay " approach . local authority will be able to levy fine on landlord to raise revenue , but — my hon . friend can check the transcript on this point — we do commit ourselves to " new burden " funding as appropriate . give the environmental importance and scarcity of chalk stream , may I urge the Deputy Prime Minister and her team to support amendment to this afternoon ' s legislation that would protect those stream ? they be vital , and they need as much protection as we can give they . as the hon . Gentleman will know , chalk stream already have protection in national planning policy , but I be sure that we will continue this discussion on Report of the Planning and Infrastructure Bill later today . will the Minister meet I and resident of Beech and Willow Rise in Kirby , where a combination of fail leasehold law , previous corporate entity and inadequate regulation risk leave resident face unaffordable cost and eviction ? I be always happy to meet my hon . friend . I know she have have constructive conversation with the Minister with responsibility for building safety , my hon . friend the Member for Nottingham North and Kimberley ( Alex Norris ) , but I be happy to meet she . three hundred social home be at risk in my Chichester constituency , despite have outline planning permission , because developer be reject offer from register provider . will the Minister commit to action to stop developer evade their obligation , and will he meet I to help I protect the delivery of these social home ? we recognise the challenge around uncontracted section 106 unit . a complex array of factor have lead we to this point , but we be give serious consideration to how we unblock the problem , and how we get those section 106 home allocate and people live in they . Chinese Embassy Development ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Housing , Communities and Local Government what assessment she have make of the United States Government ' s national security concern regard the propose chinese embassy development at Royal Mint Court . this Government be commit to the probity of the planning process at all level to ensure robust and evidence - base decision making . the process include a role for plan Ministers in decide on call - in planning application and recovered appeal , so I hope that the House will appreciate why I can not comment in any detail on specific planning application at the Dispatch Box . that say , it may be helpful to member if I set out the process that these case follow . the application refer to by the right hon . Member be consider to meet the publish call - in policy set out in the October 2012 write ministerial statement , so it will be determine by Ministers . the application be not yet with the Department . all decision that come before minister be subject to examination by an independent planning inspector , usually through a public inquiry . the planning inspector then provide an evidence - base recommendation , and set out their full reason for that recommendation . the inspector ' s report consider the application against publish local , regional and national planning policy , which be likely to contain a wide variety of material planning consideration ; in this case , those be likely to include safety and national security . a public inquiry be hold on this case between 11 and 28 February , at which interested party be able to put forward evidence and make representation . should any further representation be make that raise material planning consideration before the decision be make , they will also be take into account . at all time , the decision will be deal with in line with the publish propriety guidance on planning casework decision . the right hon . Member will be aware that the Home Secretary and Foreign Secretary make a joint representation to the Planning Inspectorate ahead of the start of the inquiry . that will be take into account , alongside all other relevant matter . once the planning inspector ' s report and recommendation be receive , the case will be determine by a planning Minister , who will come to a decision base on material planning consideration . the US Government , and today the Dutch Parliament , have express concern about sensitive cable under Royal Mint Court . Beijing have a recent history of cut cable and confirm infrastructure hack , include embed malware capable of disable all that infrastructure . surprisingly , the Secretary of State for Science , Innovation and Technology say on television yesterday that this issue be " in the planning process " and could be manage . will the Minister correct the record ? the planning inquiry have conclude , and no change at all can be make to the chinese planning application . I remind the Minister that the application contain nothing about cable . indeed , the Chinese have reject only two request by the inquiry — request to which he refer ; they be make by the Government , in the letter from the Foreign and Home Secretaries . that be despite Ministers regularly say that the letter should " give those concern comfort . " reroute the cable would , we know , cost million , if the Government be even think about that , so I ask the Minister : why do the Government strongly deny , rather than tell this House about , the presence of the cable until the White House actually confirm it ? chinese state medium have report that the UK have give assurance to the Chinese that the UK would allow the development , no matter what . indeed , the Guardian newspaper report in 2023 that the Chinese would not apply again unless they be give governmental assurance . can the Minister confirm , or even deny , any of this ? speak as one of those in the Chamber who have be sanction by China , I see this as Project Kowtow . there have be one denial after another , and one betrayal after another . no wonder our ally believe that this chinese mega - embassy be become a walk of shame for the Government . I thank the right hon . member for those question . I hope he will appreciate , not least because of the quasi - judicial nature of the role of plan Ministers in the planning process , that I can not comment on the detail of the application . as I have say , no decision on the case have be make , and the case be not yet before the Department . the right hon . member mention cable , but it would not be appropriate to comment on any specific national security issue . on whether the chinese embassy issue be raise during UK - US trade talk , again it would not be appropriate to comment on the detail of those talk . suffice it to say that we do not recognise the characterisation set out in the Sunday Times article , in which that be reference . it be important to emphasise that only material planning consideration can be take into account in determine this case . as I say , I can not comment in any detail on such a case , and this case be not yet before the Department . I understand that the Minister can not comment on this case , or any individual case , but national security be of the utmost concern to everybody in this country and in this Chamber . when an application come before the Secretary of State , and in grant application from foreign government , will national security be a material concern for the Government ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . as I make clear in respond to the initial question , the inspector ' s report consider the application against publish local , regional and national planning policy , which be likely to include consideration of a wide variety of material planning matter . in this case , that be likely to include safety and national security . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I thank my right hon . friend the Member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) for secure this very important urgent question . question after question , and letter after letter , the Government have consistently treat Parliament with complete disregard on this matter . they have stonewall legitimate inquiry about national security , ministerial discussion and warning from security body . I get that the Minister be compromise , in that he have a quasi - judicial responsibility here , but his colleague in the Home Office and the Foreign Office do not , and they could answer these question . as the government know , their own cyber - security expert , Innovate UK , have warn about the threat to the City of London from the embassy . the wappe telephone and internet exchange be surround on three side by the new embassy , and there be fibre cable carry highly sensitive information run beneath the site . the Secretary of State for Science , Innovation and Technology say yesterday that these matter could be deal with in the planning process , but the inquiry have end , so they can not . if the Government be consider move the cable , how many million of pound of public money will that cost ? I recently send yet another cross - party letter to the Prime Minister , sign by 59 parliamentarian , urge he to pause and reconsider . since then , the US and dutch government have both sound the alarm . have MI5 and GCHQ be able to submit their own warning to the planning inspector ? do the inspector have access to unredacted plan of the embassy , which the Chinese Government have refuse to make public ? have the Government assess the potential sinister use of the secret basement in the so - call cultural exchange building ? what discussion have take place with the Bank of England , give its role in cyber - security regulation in the City ? why will the Government not follow the example of the US , australian and irish Governments , who veto similar embassy that threaten their national security ? the Government be on the verge of make a decision that will lead to a huge risk that will persist for decade . will they change course before it be too late ? I appreciate that the shadow Secretary of State ' s remark be write before he listen to my response , but I could not have be clear about the fact that no decision have be make on this case and no application be yet before the Department — [ interruption . ] it be a question . he be pre - empte a decision that have not be make , on a case that be not before the Department . I have be very clear that , should any further representation be make that raise material planning consideration — they may , in this case , relate to safety and national security — before a decision be make , these will be take into account . but again , as I say to the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) , on matter of security it would not be appropriate for I to comment . on specific issue such as cable , it would not be appropriate for I to comment . Planning Ministers have a quasi - judicial role in the planning process and , as I have say , the case be not yet before the Department . I be sure that the Minister can understand the sensitivity of how we all feel about this . China have a track record of aggressive state - back espionage . surely this country can not afford to make a massive underestimation of the risk , should this go ahead as expect . expert warn that there could be the foreign leverage of signal , interception and monitoring of sensitive Government and corporate communication . to what extent can individual make representation , because everyone be extremely concerned that such a massive and historic building be sell some year ago ? this be pre - empte . this be how China work : it plan year ahead . we can not not say anything in this House ; we must comment on what we see . please , understand that we must . I do understand the strength of feeling convey by my hon . friend and other hon . member when it come to the People ' s Republic of China . the Government be take a consistent , long - term and strategic approach to manage the UK ' s relation with China , root in the national interest . we will always protect our national security and keep the country safe , but those be separate issue from this specific planning application . I understand why she do so , but she tempt I to speculate — again , as I have say — on a decision that have not be make , on a case that be not yet before the Department . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) for submit this urgent question . the potential approval of the chinese super - embassy send precisely the wrong signal at a moment when we should be push the chinese Government hard on human right abuse and their repression of the people of Hong Kong , both in that city and right here on our street . notwithstanding the risk of interception of sensitive comms at the site , Hongkongers and Uyghurs be deeply worried about what it might mean for China ' s expand surveillance capacity here in the UK . in March , alongside other Opposition Members , I speak at the protest in front of the propose site . I say the same thing to the Minister as I say that day : the Government must block it . take into account the scale of opposition , both domestically and by our ally , will the Minister confirm that representation make in this place will be consider as part of the planning approval process ? if I may , I will also ask : consider that the original timetable for the China audit to be publish have now pass , will the Minister tell the House when they expect finally to present it ? on the audit , the hon . Gentleman ' s final point , the relevant Minister , the Under - Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs , my hon . friend the Member for Hornsey and Friern Barnet ( Catherine West ) , have confirm that that will be come before the summer . he raise two very distinct issue and I must treat they separately . on human right , we stand firm , include against China ' s repression of the people of Xinjiang and Tibet . human right issue be raise every time fcdo minister meet their chinese counterpart . on the application specifically , he ask I a very direct question . should any further representation be make , by member or other interested party , that raise material planning consideration that need to be take into account in a decision , they will be take into account and they will be consider before a decision be make . early this year I speak at a huge demonstration outside the propose embassy site , which be attend by thousand of British Hongkongers who fear that the hand that throttle their freedom in Hong Kong be reach into our society , too . I understand the Minister ' s point and the limitation on what he can say on the issue at this time , but this be not just a matter of national security ; do he understand that it be also a matter of personal security for many of our constituent , give the increase in transnational repression emanating from Beijing ? my hon . friend have be a vocal advocate for the Hong Kong community in his constituency and across the country . we will stand with and support member of that community ; we have a long , share history with Hong Kong , and many people from Hong Kong have make the UK their home in recent year . again — I must emphasise this point , and I will continue to do so as question on this come in — that be a distinct and separate issue from the planning application that will , in due course , come before Ministers in my Department . it be a pleasure to speak after the hon . member for East Renfrewshire ( Blair McDougall ) today ; I speak before he at the rally to which he refer . those of we who have be sanction — I know that you , Madam Deputy Speaker , be among our number — be particularly conscious of the effect that the chinese state have on our country . do you , Madam Deputy Speaker , honestly believe that the Minister think that the Chinese would look at this proposal in the same way ? do we in this House honestly believe that something threaten our economic security , as highlight by the Americans and the Dutch , should go through a bureaucratic planning process , with no ability to vary it , because , frankly , they ' s the order ? I do not think that be the way China would do it , and it be certainly not the way we should do it . it be a very clever question , but it be the Minister who be respond . the right hon . Gentleman ' s view on China be well known , and he know my view on China , too — we have discuss the matter in the past . he raise two distinct issue . on sanctioned parliamentarian , let I take this opportunity to make it clear that the sanction be completely unwarranted and unacceptable , and this issue will remain a priority under this Government . the Foreign Secretary and the Chancellor have raise their case at every meeting with their counterpart , include with President Xi at the G20 in November and Foreign Minister Wang Yi in February . the right hon . Gentleman tempt I to comment on the chinese planning system . I be very glad that we have a different and more robust system than the People ' s Republic of China . I appreciate that the Minister can not comment on individual planning application from the Dispatch Box , but when I speak to Hongkongers in my constituency , they be seriously concerned about the risk that come with transnational repression and that might come along with the creation and construction of this embassy . when I be speak with Hongkongers in my constituency last week , on the 36th anniversary of the Tiananmen Square massacre — something that can be commemorate in Leeds , but not in Hong Kong — they be seriously concerned that those with £ 100 , 000 bounty on their head might be more at risk now because of the construction of this embassy . I appreciate that the Minister ' s portfolio do not necessarily cover this , but what assurance can he give on behalf of the Government that if such an embassy be build , we will do everything in our power to protect those from Hong Kong who have make the UK their home ? I hope hon . member will appreciate why I will not comment on hypothetical , again , on a decision that have not be make on a case that be not before the Department . I have make it very clear that we stand with the Hong Kong community . the Minister with responsibility for Asia and the Indo - Pacific , my hon . friend the Member for Hornsey and Friern Barnet ( Catherine West ) , meet member of the Hong Kong community in this country , along with my hon . friend the Security Minister . we will stand by they . the Prime Minister , the Chancellor of the Exchequer and the Foreign Secretary have all have recent , high - level interaction with Ministers of the Chinese Communist party — the Chinese Government . have the chinese embassy be bring up in any of the meeting with those Ministers , and have those Ministers in any way correspond with the Minister ' s Department on the chinese embassy application ? it would not be appropriate for I to comment on the detail of any talk — I be not ask for detail . the right hon . Gentleman be ask for detail , and it would not be appropriate for I to comment . on the particular issue of whether representation have be make , as I make clear in answer the initial question , the Home and Foreign Secretaries make a joint representation to the Planning Inspectorate ahead of the start of the inquiry , and that will be take into account alongside all other relevant matter . from a response to a freedom of information request , which I have with I , we now know that just two protest at the Royal Mint Court site in February and March this year require the deployment of nearly 600 officer in total , include 101 in February and 485 in March . the FOI request reveal that the cost of police these two protest alone amount to £ 345 , 000 . this be a staggering use of resource for a site that be not yet operational , and it reflect the serious concern among the Hongkonger , Tibetan and Uyghur diaspora in the UK . these be community that fear that the embassy will become a hub for transnational repression . what assessment have Ministers make of the cost implication of this propose development on policing , and will they commit today to reject this super - embassy ? I be not go to commit to reject an application that have not yet come to the Department and , as I keep say , where a decision have not be make . I have make it clear that we understand the concern of member of the Hong Kong community and other about the potential — I make clear that it be a potential — approval of this application . when it come to police resourcing , all I can repeat be that only material planning consideration can be take into account in determine the case . I think we can all agree that we would like a decision to be make in this case that do not encourage the chinese Government to think that we be a soft touch . let we try another tack . national security be go to be take into account as part of this planning decision . I ask the Minister this hypothetical question : if there be only a 1 % chance that the granting of this planning application cause some detriment to our national security , would it not be well to take a risk management approach and put the embassy somewhere else ? the hon . Gentleman invite I , again , to consider a planning decision that have not be make , on a case that be not yet before the Department . I be clearly not go to set out from this Dispatch Box the decision - make process that plan Ministers in my Department might take to the application once it be submit . give the serious concern about national security , can the Minister confirm that his Department have consult on this issue with UK and ally intelligent agency , include those of the USA ? can he say whether a full national security review will be conduct before any planning decision be take ? as I have make clear , it would not be appropriate for I to comment on any specific national security issue . what I have be at pain to make clear be that the inspector ' s report , which will come before Ministers in my Department at the point when the case come to we , will include a wide variety of material planning matter , and in this case they be likely to include safety and national security matter . far to the question from the hon . member for Rushcliffe ( James Naish ) , the Home Affairs Committee have write to the Metropolitan police ask for detail of any concern it may have about the policing of this site and any particular disorder that might occur around it . I once again put it to the Minister that he must take account of these concern . there could be very serious and significant concern for police in the capital . all material planning consideration that have be bring to the attention of the inspector will be take into account as part of the decision when it be make in due course . national security and security be a valid planning consideration , so do the Minister accept that , in the event that the Secretary of State allow this decision to go ahead , regardless of the planning inspector ' s recommendation , this Government will essentially be put our relationship with China ahead of our security relationship with the United States ? that be pure speculation . as I have say , it would not be appropriate for I to comment on any national security matter . do the Minister believe that China will always try to exploit and infiltrate datum communication in this country ? widespread cyber - activity or interference in our democracy will not be tolerate and will be meet with a strong response . move on from national security , accord to the documentation — I have double - check — community safety be a significant material planning consideration . in such a multicultural area , what assessment of risk to community cohesion and the safety of local people be be make ? how do take such decision more centrally align with the Government ' s much - publicise commitment to devolution ? I do not know whether hon . member can hear I . I keep answer the question as pose , and I have answer that question . if the issue that the hon . Lady raise be a material planning consideration , the inspector will take it into account in their recommendation to Ministers to make a decision , once the case come to the Department . China be already revel in the Government ' s spectacular own goal in handing over Chagos . China look as if it be about to benefit again . even if the Minister can not say what amount be involve , will he say what work would need to be do in advance of the embassy be set up at the Royal Mail site , and who would pay for that ? would it be the Chinese , or would it be the UK Government , and which part ? as I say , a public inquiry be hold between 11 and 28 February , and all the relevant document submit to that inquiry be available online . I encourage the right hon . gentleman to go and look at they . again , he invite I to speculate on matter that be part of the application that the inspector will have consider in make his report and recommendation — when that arrive — to the Department . I emphasise again that no case be yet with the Department . if national security be a material consideration , will that be judge only by what be in the inspector ' s report ? if so , how could that be adequate , since the UK ' s China audit will not have be publish before the inspector conclude his report ? at the point when the planning inspector ' s report and recommendation be receive , it will be determine by a planning Minister , who will come to a decision base on material planning consideration that have be analyse . I understand that the Minister can not comment on the specific , but do he at least agree with the principle that if there be a risk that a nation state will act nefariously against the british state ' s interest , the british Government should not reward that state ? as I have be at pain to make clear , the Government will always protect our national security and keep this country safe . there be a distinct issue from the planning application and the question about process that have be put to I . on that basis , I can not comment , as the hon . Gentleman have acknowledge , on a decision that have not be make , and on a case that be not with the Department . my constituency be home to a grow number of people from Hong Kong who have be force to flee their homeland as a result of action by China . I appreciate what the Minister say about this be a quasi - legal matter , and the fact that a Foreign Office Minister be sit next to he speak volume about how this be not just a planning issue . do he agree that this country owe a debt to Hongkongers , whom we need to protect from the chinese interference that they consider this super - embassy would enable ? I do recognise that point . as I have make clear , the Government will stand with and support member of the Hong Kong community . as I say — I do not know whether the hon . Gentleman be in the Chamber for this — the Under - Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs , my hon . friend the Member for Hornsey and Friern Barnet ( Catherine West ) , and the Minister for Security meet member of the Hong Kong community only recently . we will continue to stand with they . the Minister have make it clear that he will not comment on the specific of the case , and I will not ask he to , but can he offer a view in principle on why we would ever offer a foreign state with know cyber - espionage capability that it deploy regularly easy access to critical cyber - infrastructure ? again , the hon . Gentleman be make assumption that I do not recognise , and thereby tempt I to comment on the case . I be not go to make blanket , in - principle statement , give the quasi - judicial nature and involvement of plan Ministers in the process . Lee Anderson , be you bob or not bob ? indicate dissent . marvellous . I call Jim Shannon . thank you very much , Madam Deputy Speaker — I be somewhat throw off there . I thank the Minister for his answer . he will be aware of concern that Chinese - bear resident in my constituency and across Northern Ireland have about the reach , and indeed the overreach , of the Chinese Government in the United Kingdom . I can well understand US concern and , with all due respect — he know I always ask my question with respect — do the Minister truly believe that this massive embassy will alleviate the concern of those who know good the reach of the chinese Government ' s arm ? should we not be show that , while we will accord they courtesy , as we do with other national embassy , they be not entitle to a chinese " Vatican City " in the midst of this great nation of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland ? I do recognise the concern the hon . Gentleman raise , but — forgive I , Madam Deputy Speaker — I have to repeat again that no decision have be make in this case . no case be yet with the Department . I have lay out in quite some detail the process that have be follow in how the application have be take forward , and what need to happen for Ministers to reach a decision at the appropriate point , when a case come to the Department . thing that seem politically and economically expedient at the time can become thing that government regret very much in the long term , as I find when I be the telecom Minister have to lead the £ 2 billion strip - out of Huawei from our 5 g infrastructure . it take only a few minute for the Prime Minister to change his position on the chinese embassy after a call from President Xi Jinping . the Minister have say he can not answer any question on the substance of the issue , but on a planning level will he commit personally to have a secure briefing ahead of make any planning decision , and also to publish and share with this House detail of all the representation he have receive on the planning application , include those from his own government ? I will take the two aspect of the hon . Lady ' s question in turn , if I may . we will be vigilant against the full range of hybrid , cyber , space and other threat from state and non - state actor , include those emanating from China . on her specific question about the planning application , all the representation make to the Planning Inspectorate as part of that public inquiry be publicly available for hon . member to see . minister , when they come to make a decision on the basis of the inspector ' s report and recommendation , will do so take into account material planning consideration . be the planning officer who be consider this case clear to receive top - secret information ? a planning inspector be assess the case as part of a public inquiry . although I recognise why the hon . Gentleman have ask the question , I be afraid it would not be appropriate for I to comment on national security matter . " China be likely to continue seek advantage through espionage and cyber - attack , and through securing cutting - edge Intellectual Property through legitimate and illegitimate mean . " those be not my word , but the word of the Government ' s own strategic defence review . give the sub - threshold threat pose by China and its star role in the SDR , where it be refer to explicitly alongside Russia and Iran , why have China not be include in the enhance tier of the foreign influence registration scheme ahead of any potential approval of its super - embassy ? my hon . friend the Minister for Asia and the Indo - Pacific tell I that that particular report be come forward in due course . again , on the planning application , it would not be appropriate for I to comment on specific national security issue but , as I have say , material planning consideration , include those relate to safety and national security , will be take into account . winter Fuel Payment on 21 May , the Prime Minister tell this House that the Government want to extend eligibility for winter fuel payment to a wide range of pensioner in England and Wales . today we be set out how this will happen for the come winter and the year ahead . this will provide certainty for pensioner and ensure that payment can be make swiftly and automatically , which be our priority . I hope this statement will also answer many of the question that hon . member have raise with I and other in recent week . let I set out for the House how this system will work . all pensioner with income up to and include £ 35 , 000 will benefit from support , as will all those on pension credit and other income - relate benefit . the payment of £ 200 per household , or £ 300 per household where there be someone aged over 80 , will be make to all pensioner household in England and Wales . individual pensioner with taxable income above £ 35 , 000 will have any winter fuel payment automatically recover via his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs without the need for they to take any action . this will be via PAYE for the majority , or in their self - assessment tax return for those who already complete one . no one will be bring into tax or into self - assessment just to repay their winter fuel payment . those that prefer not to receive a payment can opt out of receive it . as be previously the case before July 2024 , where the household be not get an income - relate benefit and there be more than one pensioner in the household , share payment split across the recipient will be make . this Government have have to make tough decision . it be right to mean - test the winter fuel payment — [ interruption . ] I think the Conservative party support means - test the winter fuel payment . we will find out in this debate shortly . we have have to make take tough decision because of the disaster leave by the conservative party . it be right to mean - test the winter fuel payment on ground of fairness and fiscal sustainability . Most people accept that it make no sense to pay hundred of pound to pensioner irrespective of their income . those on the high income do not need it , and there be many other call on public spending . the Government have , however , listen to concern about the level of the mean test . we be act to ensure that all low - income pensioner receive support . the new individual £ 35 , 000 threshold be significantly above the income of pensioner in poverty , and broadly in line with average earning . it will mean that the vast majority — over three quarter , or 9 million pensioner — will benefit from a winter fuel payment . this change ensure that the means - testing of winter fuel payment have no effect on pensioner poverty . mean - test the winter fuel payment in England and Wales like this will save around £ 450 million a year , subject to certification by the Office for Budget Responsibility , compare with the system of universal payment . it will cost around £ 1 . 25 billion in England and Wales , compare with the position last winter . decision about the situation in Scotland and Northern Ireland remain for their devolved administration in the usual way . as the Prime Minister have previously set out , these be change that will be fully fund at the next fiscal event , the autumn Budget . that will ensure that final costing and funding decision come alongside the late forecast from the OBR . we will ensure that the Government ' s non - negotiable fiscal rule be meet . we be set out these change before the summer to ensure that more pensioner receive support this winter . regulation will be lay in the come month to ensure that the payment be make , and tax change will be legislate for in the Finance Bill . I want to spell out clearly today that pensioner do not need to do anything . winter fuel payment will be pay automatically this winter to all pensioner who receive the state pension , pension credit or anyone who have previously receive a winter fuel payment . similarly , payment will be recover automatically through the tax system for those with an income of over £ 35 , 000 . pensioner will also continue to receive wide support . our pension credit take - up campaign have see almost 60 , 000 award make . I thank hon . member on both side of this House , local authority and charity for their work on that campaign . over 12 million pensioner right across the UK be also benefit from the triple lock . the full new state pension be set to increase by up to £ 1 , 900 a year over this Parliament as a result . I commend that support for pensioner , and this statement , to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I feel for the Minister , send here by his boss to complete what must be the most humiliating climbdown a Government have ever face in their first year in office . for nearly a year , the Conservatives have campaign against this cut , and for nearly a year , the Government have try to hold out . just four week ago , I stand here and ask the Minister how long this tone - deaf final stand could go on for . loyally , he hold the line . he defend the cut one final time . he say their plan for pensioner be right on track . well , today he have be send to end that " courageous " last stand , and — unless it be come next — he have be send without the one thing that pensioner up and down the country deserve : an apology . let we be clear : the Government make a choice to cut the winter fuel payment . it be outrageous to claim that the economy have somehow improve from the day they make the cut , and they know it . in fact , by almost every metric , the opposite be true . inflation be at the 2 % target — now it be 1 . 5 point higher ; 150 , 000 more people be unemployed ; and growth forecast have be slash in half by the Office for Budget Responsibility . in the meantime , the Government have go to town with the country ' s credit card . borrowing be up . debt be up . who be the Chancellor try to fool when she suddenly say she can afford this when before she could not ? the fact be that last winter she give pensioner ' fuel money to the union . now she realise how unpopular that be , so she be pretend that everything have change . perhaps the most surprising thing be that she think anyone be take in . accord to the Government ' s own analysis , 50 , 000 pensioner be plunge into poverty this year and 100 , 000 extra pensioner end up in A & E this winter . their mistake have hurt people , and it be cowardly not to own up to it . just like their personal independence payment reform , there be no consultation or proper assessment — just a self - righteous insistence that what they be do should not be question . there be certainly no thought for those affected or concern for the anxiety that their government by press release be cause . this be what happen when a Government come into office with no plan , no principle , no idea what they want to achieve and no idea how to achieve it . they just bumble from one mistake to another , break promise after promise . do they think they could try out new policy like try a new mattress — unwrap it , see how it feel , sleep on it for a while , but if it cause a political backache , send it back ? this rush reversal raise as many question as it answer . it be clear that when the Prime Minister stand up and make his big u - turn announcement in pmq , he have no plan and no idea how he be go to pay for it . it be a totally unfunded spending commitment . where be the £ 1 . 25 billion need to pay for this u - turn come from ? I note that the Minister have kick that can down the road until the Budget . the Government claim that the change will not permanently add to borrowing , so do that mean it will permanently add to taxation ? on the plan itself , be this really the good system of means - testing that the Government could come up with ? be the Minister sure that they have think it through , or will this unravel , too ? what happen if a pensioner earn over £ 35 , 000 a year through non - taxable income ? will they have to register for self - assessment and start fill out a tax return in their 80 or 90 ? [ interruption . ] you didn ' t cover that . why should someone earn tax income be disadvantaged ? be it fair that a millionaire pensioner and their spouse might receive a payment , but two people earn £ 36 , 000 will not ? what happen if someone die in the period between receive the payment and have to pay it back ? will the Government go after the deceased person ' s relative ? I have two final question . after all this , the saving for the Treasury for this coming year may be as little as £ 50 million . do the Minister think it be worth it , and will he apologise ? I will deal directly with two of the question raise because it be important to provide reassurance . the right hon . Lady ask what will happen with the estate of someone who be deceased . I want to be clear that his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs will never pursue any estate for the winter fuel payment alone . she also ask about the level of saving . as I set out in my statement , the saving will be £ 450 million a year in England and Wales . that be very clear , and it be a significant saving . more broadly , the hon . Lady talk about an apology . she come here represent the party of Liz Truss and lecture anybody else about apology ; she come here represent the party of flatline wage , rise debt and a 200 , 000 increase in pensioner in poverty , and ask anybody else to apologise . I have never hear such nonsense . we have listen to pensioner . for all her sound and fury — she be at her most furious today — I still can not tell what the Conservatives ' policy be , 11 month on . for all the rhetoric and shout , it sound like she might support the means - testing of winter fuel payment . after all , that be the policy of her party ' s leader , who once also support means - test the entire state pension in one of her bolder moment . conservative Members say that the policy be not much comfort to pensioner , but Age UK say the exact opposite : charity director Caroline Abrahams say that this announcement be " the right thing to do " . Martin Lewis say that it be a " big improvement " . [ interruption . ] there be a lot of chuntering from the Conservative Front Benchers . maybe their Back Benchers can work out what the Front - Bench policy be by the time they get to their foot in a few minute ' time . I have no idea whatsoever what the conservative party ' s policy be . more widely , when it come to pensioner , the Government ' s priority be to raise the state pension and rescue the NHS . the triple lock will see state pension spending rise by £ 31 billion annually over this Parliament . some £ 26 billion be be invest into the NHS because we inherit in England a disgraceful situation in which more than one in five pensioner age over 75 be on waiting list . there be no excuse for that legacy from the conservative party . neither of those form of progress — raise the state pension and investing in the NHS — would be possible without the difficult decision that we have have to make on tax . those be difficult decision that every Opposition party have oppose . only this Government can provide that crucial support for pensioner , because we will do what be necessary to turn that support from rhetoric into reality . member on both side of the House will have have a large volume of correspondence on this matter , so I thank the Minister for his statement . this fair policy change save our public service £ 450 million by ensure that the wealthy pensioner do not continue to receive the winter fuel payment . do he agree ? my hon . friend set out the principle case for means - test the winter fuel payment very well indeed . I do not think that anybody with common sense think it right that millionaire receive each year from the Exchequer hundred of pound towards their winter fuel payment — people have recognise that for year . the Government be make the tough choice of say that that we will no long pay the winter fuel payment in that way . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . our country need stability . I fear that this policy be from the book on how to botch run the country . although last year ' s decision be wrong and this change be right — the Liberal Democrats have long campaign against those proposal , and it be important to acknowledge Independent Age , Silver Voices and Age UK , which have all drive the change — a Government who wobble do not give we the stability we need for our economy . some 300 , 000 pensioner in Devon and Cornwall have be worry sick about the proposal , so why do the Government not implement this approach 12 month ago ? the Government comms have not be clear on single pensioner household , about which there be grave concern , so will the Minister provide clarity on that matter ? what about household in which there be pensioner on high and low rate — how will they be treat ? finally , may I have assurance that the Government will continue to push hard on pension credit ? for the poor pensioner , it can offer a boost of £ 11 , 000 a year to their income , which be the real way to tackle pensioner poverty in the UK . I thank the hon . member for his comment and his welcome for this change ; he call it the right change . he ask about different treatment of single and couple household ; I can explain that in a bit more detail . single household will receive the entire household ' s winter fuel payment to the one individual , whether that be £ 200 or £ 300 . if the individual ' s income be below £ 35 , 000 , they will keep that in full , and if the individual ' s income be above £ 35 , 000 , that will be recoup by HMRC unless they choose to opt out . with couple , the situation for those not receive mean - test benefit will be as it be before July 2024 , which be split payment , half to each member of the household , and then they will be individually test against the tax system . I thank the hon . member for give I the chance to clarify that point . I also entirely endorse his statement about pension credit . the reason we want to see high rate of pension credit take - up be not because of winter fuel payment per se , because that be small relative to the financial gain that come from people who be entitle to a pension credit receive it . we absolutely must maintain the progress on pension credit take - up in the month and year ahead . as I say in my statement , I welcome the work of mps in their constituency , and of local authority and charity , in drive up those rate . as chair of the all - party parliamentary group for ageing and old people , I really do welcome the reinstatement of the winter fuel payment for 9 million pensioner , but since the announcement to remove it , the energy price cap have go up £ 281 , so will the Minister take a look at the value of the winter fuel payment and perhaps turn to the industry , which over the last five year have profit by £ 207 billion ? perhaps it can make a great contribution to help our poor pensioner . my hon . friend be right to raise question about energy price — an issue for household of all age that have be live through the cost of live crisis of recent year . the good news be that the energy price cap will be come down in July , although I think everybody across the House would like to see it fall significantly far . this government have be take step over the last 11 month to make sure that more household be get support with their energy bill . member will have see the consultation on the doubling of eligibility for the warm home discount , the work to significantly increase the spending on warm home insulation — over £ 3 billion this year — and the extension of the household support fund . right across the piece , for household of all age , not just for pensioner , we do need to make sure that this be a country where more people can afford to heat their home . the truth be that the Chancellor make a chilling political choice last July and have now have to make a screeching u - turn follow pressure from people across the House and outside this Chamber . will the Minister take this opportunity to send an apology to all the low - income pensioner in West Worcestershire and elsewhere who have to shiver through last winter ? as I be say , we do need to make sure that low - income family right across the board be receive the support they need . that be why we set out change to free school meal last week and it be why we will be come forward with a child poverty strategy in the week ahead . I have already explain why the original decision be take and set out that we have listen . the important thing be that it be right to maintain the principle of means - test winter fuel payment but to do so with a high threshold . as I have set out , the change we be bring forward today will mean that the vast majority of pensioner — over three quarter — will receive it in future . I welcome my hon . friend ' s announcement , because this news will not only bring more money to Scotland ; it also demonstrate that this be a Government who listen . the winter fuel payment be devolve in Scotland , as it be at the time of the original announcement , and the Scottish National party ' s current policy rob poor pensioner to fund payment for millionaire . do my hon . friend agree that the SNP must now re - examine its own policy in the light of this game - change announcement today ? my hon . friend be always quite right . I speak to Ministers in the devolved administration today to set out in advance the detail of this policy and to spell out , for example , to Ministers in Edinburgh that if they want a fair system that mean - test the winter fuel payment and the equivalent in Scotland for those on the high income , HMRC be ready to support that , but so far they have choose not to means - test the system — to have a system that be not fair to poor pensioner . the politic of U - turn be not always bad ; this be a welcome u - turn by the Government as people will benefit . it would have be helpful for the Minister to have say , " we make a mistake , but we be go to put it right " , but that be by the by . however , I have have many letter and communication , as I be sure have many other hon . member from across the House , about a group of people who be still suffer : something like 750 , 000 pensioner who be eligible for pension credit , and therefore theoretically for the winter fuel payment , apply for the winter fuel payment but have not receive a single penny for last winter . whatever other change be make , will the Minister commit to put that situation right , so that those pensioner will receive the money that they should have have during the winter ? the right hon . Gentleman be right to highlight the issue of low take - up of pension credit and he refer to the figure of more than 700 , 000 pensioner , which unfortunately be true under the last government . we have see unprecedented level of pension credit application over the past year because of the campaign by the Government and by hon . member from all party . those application be very welcome , but I agree that we need to keep up the momentum . in the short - term , we be write to all new housing benefit claimant who we think could be eligible for pension credit and encourage they to apply ; we be engage in new research about what have work in the drive for pension credit take - up , which largely seem to be awareness of the benefit ; and we be look at well datum sharing with local authority and across central Government Departments , include between the Department for Work and Pensions and his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs . I welcome today ' s announcement . it be right that , despite the horrendous financial situation that this Government inherit from the conservative party , they be reinstate the winter fuel payment for 75 % of pensioner and specifically target those in the most need . follow the question from my hon . friend the Member for Paisley and Renfrewshire South ( Johanna Baxter ) , will the Minister outline what discussion he expect to have with Scottish Ministers about the Scottish Government ' s universal approach to winter fuel payment in Scotland ? at a time when public service in Scotland be face significant peril , the SNP ' s position be to continue to give winter fuel payment to millionaire at a time of deep hardship for people in Scotland . my hon . friend be right to highlight the targeting . set the mean test threshold at £ 35 , 000 ensure that it be well above the income level of pensioner in poverty and be around the average earning level . on policy in Scotland , an important principle of devolution be that those be decision for the Scottish Government , but they be also decision for which they will be hold accountable . over several fiscal event over seven year , the option of remove the winter fuel payment from the wealthy be resist by the previous Government because there be not see to be an effective rationing mechanism and there be considerable presentational challenge . will the Minister confirm that pensioner with no mortgage and with significant tax - wrap saving in individual saving account or venture capital trust , but with a monthly pension of £ 2 , 500 , will still be fully entitle to receive the winter fuel payment ? I always enjoy discuss technical detail with the right hon . Gentleman . I set the position out clearly in my initial statement : mean - testing be base on taxable income of £ 35 , 000 , which answer his question . the original decision to cut the winter fuel payment be the wrong decision ; today ' s decision be the right decision and a much fairer decision . in my constituency , 2 , 000 more pensioner will , quite rightly , get the winter fuel payment again . it be clear that the Government have listen , so I ask they to listen again to the grow call in the Chamber and to scrap their plan , devastating cut to disability support . I thank my hon . friend for welcome today ' s policy announcement . we will continue to discuss with he all aspect of how his constituent be treat in the social security system . on the wide question that he raise , I will say that the Government have obviously set out the position — I think the position of most people in the country — that we can not continue with a position where one in eight young people be out of work or where we see 1 , 000 people a day flow on to personal independence payment . we need a well system , focus on support those who can work into work — the Minister for Social Security and Disability be set out the case on that . I do not think anybody should support the position of leave the status quo as it be . no matter how the Minister try to dress it up , the Chancellor make a monumental political mistake last year . while I welcome the news that the payment be be reinstate , it be cold comfort to those pensioner who miss out last year and face really difficult choice over the winter . will the Minister look at this issue again and reinstate the winter fuel payment for all those who miss out ? this be why I be confused . what be the position of the conservative party ? be it to support means - testing of the winter fuel payment — yes or no ? be you go to send out the shadow Chancellor to give a speech — order . " be you go to send ? " I do not think the Minister be speak to the Chair . be the conservative party go to send out the shadow Chancellor to give a speech in which I can not tell whether he be apologise for Liz Truss , then come to this House the very next week and call for universal winter fuel payment ? if the Conservatives be call for universal winter fuel payment , they need to set out how that will be fund . this be a Government who have make their choice . it be right to mean - test the winter fuel payment , because millionaire should not receive it . if the Conservatives do not know what their policy be on that , they will not know their policy on anything else . I have not meet anyone — other than John Swinney , perhaps — who think that millionaire should get the winter fuel payment . I have meet a lot of constituent who feel that the threshold be too low , and the Government have recognise that today . however , the Minister know well than most that while some pensioner still struggle , pensioner poverty have fall in recent time , whereas child poverty have go in the opposite direction . will he use some of the nearly £ 500 million save through this measure and direct it towards the grandchild , rather than the grandparent , and to where poverty be most acute in our society ? as always , I thank my hon . friend for his well - put thought . he be absolutely right that pensioner poverty fall significantly , halve under the last Labour Government , before unfortunately rise by 200 , 000 people under the Conservatives , but we must not be complacent about the headline of fall pensioner poverty , because there be wide problem . [ interruption . ] I be glad that the right hon . member for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) welcome it . the point I be come to be that the stagnate income of working - age household under the last Labour Government move across to stagnant income for pensioner and no fall in absolute poverty for pensioner under the Conservatives . there be subset of pensioner , such as single pensioner , private renter and other , where we see last problem . it be important to see this in the round , but my hon . friend the Member for East Renfrewshire ( Blair McDougall ) be absolutely right to say that we must move far on child poverty . he will have see last week ' s announcement on free school meal in England , with consequential for the devolved administration , and we will come forward far with a child poverty strategy soon . I welcome this Government ' s u - turn . countless pensioner in Woking suffer last winter , so I be pleased that that will not continue . the Minister state that £ 36 , 000 be the threshold that he and the Government have choose because it be the average earning . will the Government commit to increase that threshold go forward when average earning rise ? that be an important question . there be always a judgment in choose a threshold for any means - test benefit , and I want to be completely straight with the House about that . we have choose a threshold that be well above the income level of pensioner in poverty , and it will ensure that more than three - quarter of pensioner receive the benefit of the winter fuel payment in England and Wales . the hon . Gentleman be right that it be currently in line with average earning . it be important to have clarity for pensioner — a point that the Liberal Democrat spokesperson , the hon . member for Torbay ( Steve Darling ) , just make . we will leave the £ 35 , 000 at the current level , as all threshold in the income tax system be freeze for the come year , so that pensioner know that that be the threshold and there be no surprise . decision about future uprating will be for future Budgets . I very much welcome the Minister ' s statement today — it be the right thing to do to lift pensioner out of poverty . I be sure that both he and the Chancellor also agree that it be right to lift child out of poverty , so can he reassure this House that he and the Chancellor be do all they can to outline plan to lift the two - child cap on universal credit as soon as possible ? as my hon . friend know , we have say clearly that all lever to reduce child poverty be on the table . the child poverty strategy will be publish in the autumn , but we be not wait for that — as I say early , we have already see action on free school meal . it be another reason why we need to see more support for energy bill , and for insulate home in particular , because it be young family with child who be struggle most and have to turn off their heating . my hon . friend be absolutely right to raise this issue , which be one of the core purpose of this Government . we can not carry on with a situation in which huge percentage of large family be in poverty . I assume that because the Minister can not find the word " sorry " in his vocabulary this afternoon , he expect pensioner in North Dorset and elsewhere to be say thank you to he for this screech u - turn . however , just a few week ago , what he have announce today be predict to cause financial Armageddon . when should the City of London , mortgage payer and everybody else now expect the run on the pound that be predict by the Leader of the House of Commons ? what this Government be do be sort out the mess in the public finance leave by the Conservative party , and not repeat its irresponsibility . all Opposition party oppose all of the tax rise set out in the autumn Budget , yet claim that they support the spending on the NHS and on pensioner — they can not have it both way . the party of Liz Truss have not learn its lesson . no one I have speak to in Derby think that millionaire should be receive the winter fuel allowance , but many will welcome the lifting of the threshold so that more people receive it . do the Minister agree that this show the government listen ; it show money be target at where it be need ; and it show what can be do with a stable economy ? my hon . friend be completely right . as I say , we have set the threshold at a level that mean that the vast majority of pensioner — not just in her constituency , but right across England and Wales — will receive support in the come winter . importantly , we be announce the threshold now , to make sure those payment can be make in time for this winter . when the Chancellor slash the winter fuel allowance last year , she tell we that it be necessary , urgent and the responsible thing to do . it turn out that it be not necessary , urgent or the responsible thing to do after all , so be the Minister go to apologise to the million of pensioner who be put through the wringer so cruelly and unnecessarily ? I think he know that they deserve an apology from this Government . have perform one u - turn , will the Government now do the same for the country ' s poor family and abolish the two - child cap ? I thank the hon . member for his question . I have just refer to the progress that need to be make on reduce child poverty , not just in England and Wales but in Scotland . we will set out that strategy in the come month , and he be absolutely right to say that we should all want to see very significant progress on that issue in the year ahead . when it come to the winter fuel payment in England and Wales , the equivalent benefit be obviously devolve in Scotland , so that be a question for Ministers in Edinburgh . I welcome the decision today , and I be delighted to hear the announcement from the Minister . let we be crystal clear : this be a direct result of the progress that this Labour Government be make in turn around our economy . for my constituent , however , the future of the winter fuel payment — or its equivalent — lie in the hand of the Scottish Government . can the Minister confirm that the Barnett consequential to Scotland result from today ' s announcement will exceed what the Scottish Government be already plan to spend on their equivalent of the winter fuel allowance ? [ hon . member : " will the hon . Lady give way ? " ] will he join I in urge the Scottish Government to follow suit and ensure that the additional fund that be provide due to today ' s decision will restore the full winter fuel payment to all those who need it in — order . please be seat . I do not need any help with manage the Chamber , but question need to be short . Minister , let we have a short , sharp answer . my short , sharp answer be that wage have grow in the first 10 month of this government fast than in the first 10 year of the last Conservative Government . interest rate have be cut four time . my hon . friend be right to say that progress be be make , and that need to continue . we need to ensure that more people feel the benefit of that growth in their pocket . the change we be make to winter fuel payment today be one of those benefit . I can confirm that there will be a block grant adjustment exactly as she set out . I appreciate that this have be a humiliation for the Chancellor and that her credibility be in tatter — no wonder she be not here today to announce her own u - turn — but now that she and the Government have get a taste for climbdown , may I urge they through the Minister , who unfortunately draw the short straw today , to reverse the equally ridiculous national insurance contribution rise , which be destroy job , and the inheritance tax change , which be destroy farm and family business ? it be usual for a Minister to thank the Member for their question , but I actually mean it in this case , because the right hon . Lady have completely prove my point that the Conservatives have learn no lesson whatever . they think they can come to this Chamber and call for more spending and oppose every tax rise — and they expect to be take seriously ever again ? they will not be . as a Labour MP who vote against the winter fuel payment cut , I welcome this change in position , but I urge the Minister and the Government to learn the lesson . one of they be to listen to Back Benchers . if the Minister and the Government listen to Back Benchers , we can help the Government get it right and help they avoid get it wrong . we do not want to be here in a year or two ' s time with a Minister send to the Dispatch Box to make another u - turn after not listen to Back Benchers on disability benefit cut . if they listen now we can help the Government get it right . it be important to listen to Back Benchers and to Front Benchers . it be even important to listen to Opposition Members on occasion , particularly when they be dig their own grave with their party ' s policy . more seriously , the point that my hon . friend raise be important : everybody on the Government Benches want to make sure that this be a fair country that be grow again — that wage be grow , that poverty be fall , that inequality be come down . that be what we need to deliver . sometimes that will involve tough choice , include all the one that the right hon . member for Tatton ( Esther McVey ) oppose . those choice will need to be make , because we be a party of government not a party of protest , but they be make in the interest of our value and of a fair country and a fairer Britain . the Minister come to this House almost triumphant , have vote to take away winter fuel payment a minimum number of month before winter , and now say that we should be thank he for this reinstatement . anguish , anxiety , uncertainty — that be what my pensioner suffer . will he apologise ? the hon . Gentleman be try to put word in my mouth and he will not succeed . we have be clear . what I say in my statement be that we have come to the House today , before the summer recess , particularly to deal with the issue that he be raise , which be to provide absolute certainty for pensioner in England and Wales that they will be receive the winter fuel payment this winter if their income be below £ 35 , 000 . I agree with he that that be an important level of certainty to provide , and that be why I be here today . rise — Order . I give another reminder to colleague that question must be short , as must answer . otherwise , many colleague will be disappoint . I share the deep concern of my constituent about the loss of the winter fuel payment , which the Minister will know I relay to the Department . I be glad that the Government have act on those concern and review the threshold so that the majority of pensioner will receive the payment this winter . do the Minister agree that in stabilise the economy we be now in a well position to do what Labour government have always do well : protect the vulnerable in our society ? that be exactly the point I have just make : what be Labour Governments here for ? build a fair Britain . what do the last Labour Government do ? they bring down child poverty , halve pensioner poverty and raise wage year after year . that be what this Government will do again . I have listen to the Minister ' s statement and read the word , too , and nowhere can I see an explanation for why this decision have come now , 11 month after it be first announce . why have this decision come now ? will we have to wait another 11 month for the Government to rethink their cut to disability benefit ? I have just explain why we be make this announcement now : we want to ensure that the payment can be make in time for the winter . I have not hide from the fact that last year we make the difficult decision to mean - test the winter fuel payment , and that be the right choice to make , but we have listen , which be why we have announce a high mean test . I have directly answer the hon . member ' s question . this be important , but we do need to make some tough decision . I know that the liberal Democrats want a universal winter fuel payment , because they think it right to pay hundred of pound to millionaire , but I take a different view . I think it be that kind of wishful thinking that create , in 2010 , a Liberal Democrat Government who promise to scrap tuition fee and end up treble they . I thank the Minister for his statement , which I know will be greatly welcome by my constituent . over 14 year , we become used to a Government who do not listen and do not change course when circumstance change , so I for one be grateful for a Labour Government who do so . while there be an uptick in pension credit — question ! will the Minister commit himself again to work with local government and devolve administration to increase the number of people receive pension credit , so that pensioner on the low income do not lose out but receive the support that they need ? that be a very important point . whatever the view express in the House today , I say to all member that if any of they want to suggest way in which we can continue to drive up pension credit and ensure that the poor pensioner receive the support to which they be entitle , I will always be happy to talk to they . as my hon . friend the Member for North Dorset ( Simon Hoare ) ably recall , the Minister ' s superior tell we that there would be a run on the pound unless pensioner take a hit on winter fuel . give that every economic indicator be bad last year , can the Minister tell we whether the pound be safe with this u - turn , or whether this be just another example of his senior ' talk utter bilge to justify their terrible decision ? it be the hon . member who be talk bilge . growth be the high in the G7 in the first quarter of this year , interest rate have fall four time , and wage have rise fast in 10 month than they do in 10 year under the Conservatives . what be happen be that we be sort out their mess and put Britain on a well track . do the Minister agree that , give that our be now the fast grow economy in the G7 and interest rate have be cut four time , now be the time to ensure that our public service will be protect and that pensioner who do not need the winter fuel payment to heat their home will not receive it , while those who do need it to heat their home will receive it ? I should have get out of the way , because my hon . friend have give a direct rebuttal to what be say by the hon . member for Hornchurch and Upminster ( Julia Lopez ) . he be entirely correct in every detail of the important point that he have raise . a Labour Government invest in public service and end austerity : that be what we will be hear about in the House on Wednesday , and I look forward to hear Conservative Members explain how they try to support that spending while oppose every tax rise that be necessary to make it happen . I welcome the Minister ' s statement , not least because it will offer much support and reassurance to so many of my constituent . as he know , no system be perfect and mistake will be make , so may I ask whether there will be an appeal mechanism for those who be entitle to the winter fuel payment but , for whatever reason , do not receive it ? I thank the hon . member , my near neighbour , for that question . no bureaucracy be perfect , but in such case we do not need an appeal mechanism ; we just need to ensure that those people receive the payment as soon as possible . as I have say , we have make this decision to ensure that we can automatically make winter fuel payment to people who be receive all the benefit that I mention , and who also receive the payment previously . the success rate of that payment mechanism be strong , which be why I have make this announcement today . however , if any member have any constituent in that position , I ask they to get in touch with I immediately . I welcome the Government ' s decision , and thank they for listen to member on both side of the House . many of my old constituent live in house that be not energy - efficient , which result in high bill , so can the Minister say more about what the Government be do to increase energy efficiency in home to keep they warm and bring down bill ? that be such an important point ! one of the big mistake that we make in previous decade be say , " we will not see the benefit of work to improve the quality of the housing stock for year , so let we slash it . " that be exactly what happen in 2013 , when there be a 90 % cut in the level of insulation under the energy company obligation scheme , and we have pay the price for that ever since . this government be not go to make the same mistake . my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero have be ramp up the warm home programme , and we need to be out there insulate home and improve loft every day until Britain have a housing stock of which it can be proud . many of my elderly constituent have an unnecessarily cold and miserable winter , and the uncertainty to which the Minister constantly refer be of his Government ' s own making . will he take this opportunity to apologise to my constituent ? the right hon . member be right to highlight that we need to provide support for old people , and for all household , with their energy bill right through the year , which be what this Government have be do . we have not be wait . as I say , the warm home discount be be extend to almost 3 million extra household , we be roll out the improvement to the insulation programme that I have just mention , and the household support fund have be extend for future year . that be exactly what we need to do , while at the same time improve our energy security and our energy generation to make sure that , in future , we do not see the disaster of the last five year , when global wholesale gas price send electricity and gas price here in the UK through the roof . I thank the Minister for his statement , which will be warmly welcome by constituent , particularly pensioner who be just above the threshold and who lose out last winter . do he agree that measure such as roll out free breakfast club — I visit one this morning at Goodyers End primary school — be make a real difference by tackle poverty and that that be what this Government be do across the board in all age group ? I could not agree more with my hon . friend . we need to make sure that we be see child poverty fall and see extra help for family through free school meal , as well as through the breakfast club that she mention . we also need to see more progress on pensioner poverty . that be why today we be say that the threshold will be well above the income of pensioner who be in poverty . we do not want to see that poverty in the year ahead , which be exactly why we have make this change today . while the Government bury their head in the sand , countless pensioner suffer , such as my constituent who , despite have a terminal disease , have to cut back on heating and food , and spend the winter " freeze cold " . can the Minister explain why no impact assessment be conduct last year before winter fuel payment be strip from million of pensioner ? I thank the hon . Lady for her question , but the equality analysis be do . unusually , the poverty impact analysis be also publish over the last year . I do not agree with the statement that she have just make , but she be right to say that we need to make sure that we be improve thing for pensioner . as I say before , this Government ' s priority be to keep raise the state pension and to rescue the NHS . as I say , one in five over - 75 be currently on an NHS waiting list , and the funding to make that happen be possible only because of the tax rise that I hear the liberal Democrats oppose week in , week out . I welcome the Minister ' s announcement and the change in course from the Government . many of we be uneasy about the low threshold for the winter fuel payment , especially in deprive community such as mine — I have the most deprived borough in the country . will the Minister assure my constituent that all pensioner under the threshold will automatically receive the new winter fuel allowance and will not have to do a single thing in the winter to come ? that be an absolutely crucial point and have be central to the work that we have do to decide on the policy . we want a system of automatic payment , so that pensioner do not need to do anything to claim the payment , and one that be automatic for those who have income above £ 35 , 000 , so that they do not have to take action if they need to have the funding recoup , unless they choose to opt out . my hon . friend be absolutely right : we need a simple system that support pensioner . the Minister talk about the NHS , and I wonder whether he recognise the number of elderly people who have to use the NHS as a result of have be cold because of his policy . I want to ask he a very specific question . he say : " all pensioner with income up to and include £ 35 , 000 will benefit from support " . he also say : " individual pensioner with taxable income above £ 35 , 000 will have any winter fuel payment automatically recover " through the tax system . where a household have two individual over the eligible age , what happen when one earn more than £ 35 , 000 and the other earn less ? will they get some , all or half of the winter fuel payment ? I think I have answer that question , but I be happy to lay it out again , if that be helpful . there be a long - stand principle of individual taxation , which I think be support by all party in this House . where a couple be not receive a means - test benefit , they will each receive half of their household ' s winter fuel payment . whether they continue to keep that or it be recoup through the tax system will be base on their individual taxable income . for example , if one have an income above £ 35 , 000 , their payment will be recoup by HMRC automatically , but if the other have an income level below £ 35 , 000 , they will retain the winter fuel payment . I hope that clarify thing . would my hon . friend help clear something up ? the opposition party seem to be claim that they urge we to make this decision , but that be not true , be it ? they actually urge we to give winter fuel payment to millionaire at the expense of our public service . I can clear that up , in the case of the Liberal Democrats and Reform . they have the same policy — not for the first time , I might add — which be definitely to give winter fuel payment to millionaire . I have no idea what the position of the conservative party be , and I have be here for an hour and a quarter . actually , I have be in the House for the last 11 month , and I have still not be able to fathom what the conservative party ' s policy be , but I think it be to not learn any lesson from Liz Truss . during the general election campaign , that well - know political giant , " a Labour spokesman " , say that Labour have no plan to change the winter fuel payment , but within week , the Government have cruelly cut it , withdraw it from million of pensioner , and 13 month later , the Minister be perform this screech u - turn . give the hokey - cokey nature of this policy , can he give an assurance from the Dispatch Box that what he be announce will apply not just this winter , but every winter in this Parliament ? the point about certainty for pensioner be important — I think that be the point the hon . Gentleman be make . as I say early , we be set the £ 35 , 000 threshold so that people become aware of it in the come month . it be a round number , and we do not intend to change it in the year ahead , although far in the future , yes , there will be question about uprating , which will be consider in the normal way . I welcome the fact that the Government be respond to the huge public pressure and be expand eligibility for winter fuel payment . I be concerned that we be about to make a similar mistake , which , once again , we will come to regret , in cut disability benefit . will the Treasury drop those cut before they cause harm to our constituent , instead of reverse they after the fact ? I have listen carefully to what my hon . friend have say . to be clear , I be not ask he to keep the status quo , or to not support people into work ; I be simply ask he not to cut disabled people ' s benefit . I thank my hon . friend for her question , and we always have interesting conversation . the Minister for Social Security and Disability will have hear the point she make . I gently say that the number of people receive personal independence payment be forecast to continue to grow in every single one of the year ahead . that be after change be set out by this Government . that important point sometimes get lose in this debate . I welcome the fact that the Government be finally listen to the public and do a u - turn on winter fuel payment , which be long overdue . however , in a truly strategic approach to tackle fuel poverty , we would make sure that every home could be heat affordably and be well insulated . will the Government commit to invest in the national asset that be our housing stock , and to properly fund the warm home programme , so that no pensioner , no child — nobody — be condemn to fuel poverty in a cold home ? yes , that be exactly what we be do , and we be fund that , because this government know that we need to make difficult decision , and will make they , so that we can deliver priority such as investment in well housing stock . I welcome this news , which will mean that more pensioner in Bracknell Forest receive this important benefit , and the Government ' s recommitment to the triple lock . do the Minister agree that a conservative party that can not decide whether it support give winter fuel payment to millionaire , whether it back the triple lock , or even whether Liz Truss be a member be in no position to govern this country every again ? obviously , I agree with my hon . friend in lot of way , but it be really important to dwell on the point that he make at the beginning of his question . through these change , the vast majority of pensioner — over three quarter — will receive winter fuel payment this winter . we can give they the necessary reassurance that they do not need to do anything for that to happen , even if they be on a high income . the Minister be at pain to say that pensioner do not have to do anything to get this payment , but of course they have to do something — they have to write to , email and call Labour mp , and tell they that this cut be wrong . at the time , the justification Labour MPs give for the cut be the economic circumstance . give that inflation and unemployment be high , and growth be low than it be go to be , be not the time for Labour mp to listen before the cut , not after it ? no , because this Government be form on the back of disastrous public finance . the conservative party have announce public spending commitment without have a penny to pay for they . we will not apologise for do the right thing to put this country back on an even keel . on 3 September , I say in this House that I represent England ' s coldest and snowiest constituency , where even people on a living wage can be in fuel poverty , as can child and pensioner . that be why , as the Minister know , I press the Government not only for the change that he have announce today , but to widen the eligibility criterion for the warm home discount scheme , which be the smart mechanism we have for tackle genuine fuel poverty . he have only go and do both those thing , so can I thank he for listen not to I , but to the people I represent ? what assessment have be make of the impact of these change on lift child out of fuel poverty ? I obviously thank my hon . friend for his question , but I have to disagree . I do not deserve any credit for double eligibility for the warm home discount ; the Under - Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , my hon . friend the Member for Peckham ( Miatta Fahnbulleh ) , who be here on the Government Front Bench , deserve it . on fuel poverty estimate , over 5 million household should benefit from the warm home discount next year . that will make a real difference to household right across the country . I greatly welcome this overdue u - turn , but if £ 35 , 000 be the correct cap , why do the Government impose misery on million of pensioner last winter ? be not a basic part of get something wrong say sorry ? it be not enough to say , " look at all the thing the Conservative party do . " that be not the point . the point be that this Government think they be well than everyone else . why will they not say sorry ? over the past year , this Government have be get on with provide more support for pensioner , raise the state pension , ensure the triple lock , extend the household support fund and invest in the NHS , the state of which be the single big betrayal of pensioner in England . we believe in and support the principle of mean - test the winter fuel payment , but have listen , and have look again at the threshold . that be what I have set out today . I very much welcome raise the threshold for the winter fuel allowance . as I be sure the Minister know , the threshold be at the heart of my concern about mean test , although the principle of means - testing be absolutely correct . Morecambe and Lunesdale have an old than average population . can the Minister assure I that my pensioner will not have to do anything special — make any application — to get their winter fuel allowance ? I can absolutely give my hon . friend that assurance . we want to make sure that the vast majority of pensioner can receive winter fuel payment . we want to make that as easy as possible , which mean make receipt automatic . the Minister seem unable to say sorry , but do he at least regret that more than 90 , 000 more elderly people go to A & E last winter than do the year before , in the last winter under the Conservative Government ? over the last few year , since 2020 , energy bill have rise for all household , and far too many people have be struggle . that be absolutely right , and the Government be focus on address it through the warm home discount and the warm home scheme , which provide the insulation that the hon . member for North Herefordshire ( Ellie Chowns ) mention . we need to do that right across the board , include , in the long run , by fix our break energy system . I have speak to many people in North East Derbyshire who , although they acknowledge that we should not give this payment to millionaire , be deeply concerned that the threshold be too low . can the Minister reassure my constituent that those who be eligible for the payment will not have to apply for it ? I absolutely can . as I say , we need to provide the reassurance that the vast majority of pensioner will receive this support , and will not have to do anything to get the payment in their bank account . the cut to winter fuel allowance and the subsequent u - turn have cause much anguish , distress and misery to the parliamentary Labour party . judge by the question from the Minister ' s Back Benchers , it seem that we will have two furth u - turn , on PIP and on the two - child benefit cap . to save his colleague the anguish , will he let we know now when those U - turn be come ? what Labour mps want be a Labour Government who bring down child poverty , and that be what we will do . they want a Government who take responsible decision , include difficult one on tax and on mean - test the winter fuel payment , so that we can invest in public service and turn around the disgrace that there have be in Britain ' s public realm for far too long . I welcome this announcement , as will the 26 , 000 pensioner in my constituency , where we have particularly cold and harsh winter . will the Minister reassure my constituent that automatic payment will be reinstate , and will there be any change to the date on which payment will be make ? I will not adjudicate on which Member have the cold constituency in England , as my hon . friend invite I to . she raise an important point that have not yet be make , so I should spell this out : we will bring forward the regulation on the payment of the winter fuel allowance over the summer , and they will set the qualifying week as that of 15 September , as it have be in past year . that mean that payment will be make in November and December , as in past year . a shocking 75 % of scottish pensioner say that they be leave cold in their home last winter . do the Minister agree that the Scottish Government must use the additional funding from today ' s announcement to ensure that pensioner in Scotland receive the same amount of winter fuel payment as they do under the previous UK Conservative Government ? as I be sure the hon . Gentleman be aware , those be decision for the Scottish Government . however , as I say , I have speak to the relevant Ministers in the Scottish Government today . there will be a block grant adjustment to reflect this high spending in England and Wales . I thank the Minister for his statement , and for the extensive time he spend with the Work and Pensions Committee last week . our inquiry on pensioner poverty have find that this issue be multifaceted and complex . can the Minister assure I that he will work cross - government on a policy that will ensure that pensioner poverty be a thing of the past ? my hon . friend raise the important issue of the complexity of pensioner poverty . I will just give one example , which do not get mention in these discussion often enough . the growth rate — the value people be get ; the return on every pound save into a private pension — absolutely need to be as strong as possible . private pension support the living standard of our pensioner . we need a pension industry that be focus on drive the good possible value for saver . there appear to be universal support for this damascene conversion by the Government . last year , they tell pensioner that the right course of action be to scrap the winter fuel payment for million , but they be now tell they that a means - test system be right , so how can pensioner possibly believe anything that the Government say ? do we actually get a conservative party policy there ? be the hon . member say that the conservative support today ' s announcement ? [ interruption . ] that be a no . we do not have an answer yet , after an hour and 10 minute , on what the conservative party ' s policy be . I can give he the answer that he would like : yes , we will provide certainty that this be the policy of this Government . we could have go fast in the past hour and 10 minute if the Minister be fast with his answer . I have work hard with Citizens Advice Bournemouth , Christchurch and Poole in my constituency to get pensioner on to pension credit . however , on the doorstep , I have meet far too many people , especially single woman , who be £ 10 — or even £ 1 — over the threshold for pension credit . I welcome the statement , and thank the Minister for listen to my constituent ' concern about the threshold . do he agree that this policy show the difference between this Government and the previous one ? this government be do what be necessary to get stability in our economy , what be fair to get money back into our public service , and what be right to protect the vulnerable in our society . I thank my hon . friend for her question and , in particular , for her hard work to drive take - up of pension credit . forget winter fuel payment — pension credit be a really important lifeline for low - income pensioner . it be worth an average of £ 4 , 000 to those receive it , and far too many be miss out . I thank my hon . friend for her work , and I hope that it continue . today ' s u - turn be an astonishing victory against the Government , whose support have dry up after less than a year in office . when the Government announce their cruel cut to the winter fuel payment , cost 64 , 000 Bradford district pensioner vital support , expert across the country warn that up to 4 , 000 life could be at risk as people be force to choose between heating and eat . now that the majority of the winter fuel payment have be restore , do the Government dare to produce a figure for how many pensioner may have lose their life as a result of the Government ' s choice to remove the winter fuel allowance ? that be a serious matter . there be poor household , with people of all age , that have be struggle with energy bill in recent year . I be sure that all of we across this House want to see those problem address . we have also see increase in food price over the last few year that be high than we would like , and it be low - income household that spend a high proportion of their budget on essential such as food , energy and housing . it be the policy of this government to ensure that we be deal with all those issue . the median average income of a pensioner in Rochdale be £ 15 , 000 , which be way below the amount we expect people to live on with the national living wage , so I thank the Minister for today ' s announcement . do he agree that it prove that the Government have listen not only to opposition mp , but to mps in the Labour party who have push for this for so long and , more importantly , to the pensioner we represent ? my hon . friend be right that we have to make difficult decision last year , and I understand that Labour Members have raise those with the Government . it be why we look again at the threshold and be stick to the principle of means - testing while set a high threshold so that the vast majority of pensioner — over three quarter — will now receive winter fuel payment . I welcome the partial reinstatement of the winter fuel payment . when we meet , the Minister and I discuss the cliff edge that exist last winter , which mean that people in receipt of pension credit could in some case leapfrog the income of people in receipt of a small private pension . can the Minister indicate whether the new mean test will remove that eligibility cliff edge ? I remember discuss exactly that with the hon . member . all mean test have pro and con , but by have a much high threshold — in particular a high threshold relative to the level of payment , with £ 100 or £ 200 be receive by individual — the large unfairness he talk about , where small difference in income lead to large difference in outcome , be far reduce . I use to work for Age Scotland , so may I say how welcome it be that the Government have listen to old people ' s charity and make today ' s announcement ? I understand it will mean some £ 100 million additional funding for the payment in Scotland . do my hon . friend agree that SNP Ministers should now rethink their plan and instead endorse Scottish Labour ' s plan , which be first propose last November and would mean more generous payment for the pensioner who need they most ? I be glad to hear about my hon . friend ' s previous role , and it be encouraging to see what charity represent old people have put out over the last few hour . as I say early , Age UK have say that this be the right thing to do and that it will bring much - need reassurance for old people and their family . I appreciate that the Minister do not get a chance to spend long on the back Benches — such have be his accelerated rise up the ministerial pole — but would he like to spare a thought for his former Back - Bench colleague and join I in thanking and congratulate the small band of Labour Back Benchers who go public , break cover and oppose this dreadful policy ? I agree that we should welcome all labour Back Benchers , because they be the people go through the Lobbies every day to keep in place a Labour Government who be save public service , take tough but fair decision on tax — decision that be oppose by all the opposition party — rescue our public service and drive down poverty . that be what a Labour Government be about , and that be what everyone on the Labour Benches agree on . I welcome today ' s statement . as one of the mp who speak against the decision to mean - test the winter fuel payment last year , I pay tribute to all the campaigner who have lobby hard for a change in policy . do the Minister agree that mean - testing have once again fail and that effectively what we be see today be the return of labour ' s commitment to universalism and to use the taxation system to get money back from those who be well - off ? I think I agree with my hon . friend , in the sense that the tax system be a progressive tax system . that be the purpose for which it be be use in this case — to drive fair outcome for pensioner , and so that millionaire do not receive the benefit of a winter fuel payment but all low and middle - income pensioner do . the Northern Ireland Executive be to receive a consequential budget adjustment . may I ask the Minister when it will receive that adjustment , so that we can ensure that our Northern Ireland pensioner get a winter fuel payment in the come winter ? I absolutely recognise the hon . member ' s question , and I speak to the Northern Ireland Executive early today . we will ensure that the Executive receive the budget adjustment in year in order to provide the same support , in line with the principle of parity under which the social security system in Northern Ireland operate . the answer be yes , that support and funding will be there . away from the knockabout of Westminster politic , I and people in Telford welcome this change . the principle of means - testing be right , but the level be too low . do my hon . friend agree that millionaire , mp who happen to be of pensionable age and those who be live abroad should not receive this payment ? I almost always agree with my hon . friend , so the answer be yes . he also provide I with an opportunity to clarify a point that have not be cover in the last hour or so : the payment will continue not to be exportable for those not resident in the UK . [ Official Report , 2 July 2025 ; Vol . 770 , c . 4wc . ] ( Correction ) do the Minister agree that those pensioner who miss out on their payment in the winter of 2024 and will qualify under these rule should be reimburse for the money they lose ? my view be that all pensioner be be support by our high level of the basic state pension and the new state pension , support by the difficult decision that the Government have be able to take . all pensioner will be support by a function NHS , which be what we be put in place after the disgrace of the last 14 year . to answer the hon . member ' s question directly , we be set out the system for future year and not for the past . this be welcome news that will bring even more money to Scotland on top of the record funding settlement that our Chancellor deliver in the Budget . do the Minister agree that my constituent fear the Scottish Government and John Swinney ' s plan to pay out just £ 100 in Scotland ? those who need it most will now get more in England and Wales than the SNP will pay out to pensioner in Scotland — double , in fact — because the Scottish Government seem determined to pay out to the very wealthy millionaire in Scotland . should they rethink that ? I can not compete with my hon . friend in make a powerful case that the SNP Government in Edinburgh do need to think again . in my constituency , over 15 , 500 pensioner lose the winter fuel allowance , of whom 5 , 000 be over 80 . would the Minister like to apologise to the gentleman who write to I who have cancer and could not keep his heating on for the winter of worry he be put through ? I thank the hon . member for raise that point . it be important that those in need of healthcare , in particular , receive support . it be not that we see high level of challenge in keep the heating on among old generation ; it be about the consequence of that , particularly in case such as the one she raise . that be exactly why we need to ensure that we be turn around the NHS , which all the constituent of hon . member in England be rely on . we be see improvement to wait time in Wales as well . I thank the Minister for his leadership on this issue . if he be look for example of how to increase the uptake of pension credit , he be welcome to visit my constituency to see the work that the Community Help and Advice Initiative be do with gate55 to maximise benefit . if he come along to one of those session with the Dove Centre , he can also get a warm meal and a game of bingo . but the £ 35 , 000 threshold be much more generous than I , as a tight - fisted Scotsman , would have expect , so will he explain how he reach that value ? it be a fair question . all mean - test threshold do involve judgment — I have be completely honest with the House about that — and the judgment we have come to be that we want to see the vast majority of pensioner receive the winter fuel payment . we want to be absolutely sure that no low - income pensioner will miss out . that be what bring we to a £ 35 , 000 threshold . it also mean that those on high income — the rich 20 % or 25 % of pensioner — will not receive it . the Minister may be in denial , but this u - turn be a humiliation for the Chancellor , who claim that economic stability demand take money from vulnerable pensioner , and for all the Labour mps who vote for it . why do the Government not listen soon to those who campaign against these cruel cut ? will he now apologise to my constituent and those across the country who be cold last winter ? this be a Chancellor who have bring stability and growth back to the economy and get wage grow once again ; one who be drive investment in our public service , which will rescue they ; one who have drive up public investment , which be crucial to show that , once again , we be a country that can do the basic like build house , fill pothole and the rest . when the policy be originally announce , I , hon . member across the House and constituent of mine all share the same basic view that mean - testing be fair but the threshold be far too low . I therefore welcome the Government ' s decision today and the fact that they be listen . over the last winter , work with the citizen advice bureau in Hartlepool , we secure nearly £ 1 million of additional annual income for Hartlepool pensioner . do that not show the work that need to be do on all those unclaimed benefit not go to the pensioner who need they ? I congratulate my hon . friend on the work that he and other have be involve in in Hartlepool . drive up the take - up of all benefit so that people get the support to which they be entitle be important for ensure that more poor household be able to eat , to heat their home and to live a decent life . I do not know where Scottish Labour mp have be for the past six month , but the Scottish Government have already make it abundantly clear that we will reintroduce a winter fuel payment — and we would have do that with or without this embarrassing , screech u - turn . here be another place where the Minister can follow the Scottish Government : the two - child benefit cap . we vow to ensure that it will disappear in Scotland . will he now make the same pledge across the UK ? the hon . Gentleman ask where Scottish Labour mp have be , so I will tell he : campaign in Hamilton , make sure there be a Labour MSP and that in a year ' s time there will be a Labour Government in Edinburgh once again . away from some of the consternation of this place , a glance at his Majesty ' s Treasury distributional analysis will reveal that the original decision to protect the most vulnerable , the Budget that follow , the spring statement and — I hope — the spending review have be some of the most progressive fiscal decision we have see in recent year . will the Minister join I and the many wealthy pensioner in my constituency who agree that mean testing be the right decision , the progressive decision and the labour decision ? that be absolutely right . I think every Member of this House will have hear from people on high income who think it make no sense at all that they receive hundred of pound from the Government each year . with the sensible decision to mean - test — yes , to the high threshold — we have bring that to an end . the Government ' s cut to the winter fuel payment be estimate to have impact 16 , 766 pensioner in my constituency , so I welcome today ' s u - turn . those affect include my constituent Chrissy , who be just above the threshold and now have the add fear that she will lose her personal independence payment . do the Minister understand why Chrissy be so angry and afraid ? I have already discuss with the hon . member for Honiton and Sidmouth ( Richard Foord ) the question of people just over the pension credit threshold . I recognise that issue and I have speak to pensioner in that situation . as I say , we have listen , and that be why we have put in place a much high threshold , which mean that Chrissy , if she be near to the pension credit threshold , will be receive winter fuel payment this year . I thank the Minister for his statement , which pensioner in Harlow will welcome . the fast growth in the G7 , three trade deal and four interest rate cut — be that the context in which the Minister feel we be able to provide more pensioner in Harlow with the winter fuel allowance ? my hon . friend always do a good job of not only represent Harlow , but remember the economic progress that be be make . if anyone do not hear what he just say , he talk about rise growth , rise wage , interest rate fall and a country back on the path to success . almost £ 85 , 000 be pay out by Dorset Community Foundation through its " Surviving Winter " campaign , include to many in my constituency . the foundation have notice that many more people be rely on oil and liquefy gas , especially those in park home and rural area . what be the Minister do with Cabinet colleague to push down the price of power for those who do not have a choice ? the hon . Lady ' s question give I the opportunity to praise the work do by all kind of charity — in some case through support pension credit uptake and , in the case of well fund foundation , provide direct support to pensioner . that be all very welcome . she be right to raise the wide question about source of energy , but of course the winter fuel payment be a cash benefit that can be use for all kind of energy . the decision to restore the winter fuel payment to those earn under £ 35 , 000 a year be the right decision . I thank the Minister and his predecessor for their constructive engagement with representation from my constituent in Stockton , Billingham and Norton on the threshold issue , but do he agree with my constituent who write to I to say that , although welcome , the winter fuel payment be not a silver bullet , and this Government ' s commitment to the triple lock stand in stark contrast to the previous Conservative Government ' s break of that triple lock in 2022 , which be still cost my constituent hundred of pound a year ? I absolutely agree with my hon . friend , and he be right to say that we should focus on the big change we be make to support pensioner , which in England be rescue the NHS and raise the basic and the new state pension . I thank the Minister for his statement . I very much welcome the decision to give the winter fuel payment back to pensioner . raise the threshold to £ 35 , 000 mean that many will now qualify , and I thank he for that . on behalf of all of those pensioner who have struggle for the last 10 month , will they receive back pay from the Government to pay off the credit card or the loan they have have to take out in order to make it through the last winter , bear in mind that the cold weather over the last few week have mean people be still have to turn their heating on and rack up even more cost ? we have be make sure that there have be support over the course of the last winter , and the hon . Gentleman will have see the increase in the state pension at the beginning of April , include for many of his constituent . the question for the Northern Ireland Executive be how they wish to handle this , but on the principle of parity , we would say that the same change should take place in Northern Ireland so that his constituent receive the winter fuel payment this winter . I represent over 20 , 000 pensioner in Plymouth — more than a quarter of my constituent . I have have hundred of conversation over the past year , and I know that people understand that the winter fuel payment should not be give out to everyone in society . the rich in society do not need it , and I warmly welcome the policy announce by the Minister today . what economic measure have this Government take to allow we to make this change now ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . we have go from compete over temperature to compete over volume of pensioner , but both be important . the point he make will echo with lot of member around the House who have have similar conversation with pensioner constituent who be on a high income and who do not think it make sense for they to be receive hundred of pound from the Government every year . in future , they will not be , but the vast majority of pensioner — over three quarter — will be receive support this winter because of today ' s decision . do the Minister agree that it be the strong economic foundation that this Government have be build that have enable we to provide this extra support to pensioner and work people , and that as the economy continue to grow , we must focus ever more political attention and resource on the young generation , particularly people start their career , so that perhaps one day they may have a triple lock ? my hon . friend raise an important point , which be that as economic growth return , as it have over recent month , what matter be that it feed through to rise living standard , particularly for poor middle - income household . we need to be honest about this : the reason why wage do not grow under the last Government be that growth be not there . that be exactly what we need to make sure never happen again . my constituent be people of common sense , and they tell I that they do not think millionaire should get the winter fuel allowance , but they do feel that the threshold be too low , so they will no doubt welcome today ' s announcement . however , after 14 year of be let down by the Conservatives , they be wary of government announcement , so can the Minister reassure my constituent that support for pensioner by way of the triple lock , pension credit and NHS investment will remain ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to say that faith in the system have be strain by the failure of the last 14 year — economic failure , public service failure and a failure of basic behaviour in politic — and that be what we need to turn around . she can tell her constituent that wage be grow , pension be rise , waiting list be fall and Britain be back . that be the end of the statement . I will allow the Front Benchers a moment to shuffle over . planning and Infrastructure Bill ( Programme ) ( no . 2 ) order , that the Order of 24 March 2025 ( Planning and Infrastructure Bill : Programme ) be varied as follow : ( 1 ) paragraph 4 and 5 of the order shall be omit . ( 2 ) proceeding on consideration and Third reading shall be take in two day in accordance with the follow provision of this order . ( 3 ) proceeding on consideration — ( a ) shall be take on each of those day in the order show in the first column of the following table , and ( b ) shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion at the time specify in the second column of the table . first day New Clauses and new schedule relate to the subject matter of , and amendment to , Part 1 , Part 2 and Part 3 . the moment of interruption on the first day . second day New Clauses and new schedule relate to the subject matter of , and amendment to , Part 4 , Part 5 and Part 6 ; remain new Clauses and new schedule ; remaining proceeding on consideration . one hour before the moment of interruption on the second day . ( 4 ) proceeding on Third reading shall be take on the second day and shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion at the moment of interruption on the second day . — ( Matthew Pennycook . ) planning and Infrastructure Bill [ 1st allocate day ] consideration of Bill , as amend in the Public Bill Committee [ relevant document : oral evidence take before the Housing , Communities and Local Government Committee on 29 April , on the Planning and Infrastructure Bill , HC 855 . ] New clause 69 - examination of application for development consent " ( 1 ) in section 89 of the Planning Act 2008 ( examine authority ' s decision about how application be to be examine ) , in subsection ( 1 ) , after ' light of ' insert " the assessment under section 88 ( 1 ) and " . ( 2 ) in section 97 of that Act ( procedure rule ) , after subsection ( 5 ) insert — ' ( 5A ) power under this section to make rule include power to make transitional provision . ' ( 3 ) the amendment make by subsection ( 1 ) apply in relation to every application in respect of which the assessment under section 88 ( 1 ) of the Planning Act 2008 be make on or after the date on which subsection ( 1 ) come into force ( whenever the application be make or accept ) . " — ( Matthew Pennycook . ) this new clause require the examiner of an application for development consent to take procedural decision in the light of the initial assessment of principal issue make under section 88 ( 1 ) of the Planning Act 2008 , and make a technical amendment regard the power to make procedural rule . bring up , and read the first time . I beg to move , that the clause be read a second time . with this it will be convenient to discuss the following : new clause 1 — step to be take when exercise function under Part 3 — " when exercise any function or fulfil any duty under Part 3 of this Act , the Secretary of State and Natural England must take all reasonable step to — ( a ) avoid , prevent and reduce any identify significant adverse effect on the environment , and only permit such adverse effect where they can not be avoid and where the adverse effect will be compensate for ; ( b ) enhance biodiversity ; ( c ) permit a significant adverse effect on a european site or Ramsar site only where justify by imperative reason of override public importance and where the adverse effect will be compensate for , and ( d ) prevent the loss of irreplaceable habitat , include ancient woodland and veteran and ancient tree , unless there be wholly exceptional reason and any loss will be compensate for . " this new clause would ensure that the Secretary of State and Natural England must take all reasonable step to avoid cause adverse environmental effect . new clause 2 — zero carbon standard for new home — " ( 1 ) within six month of the passing of this Act , the Secretary of State must make regulation under section 1 of the Building Act 1984 to require that new home must — ( a ) be build to a net zero carbon building standard , and ( b ) include provision for solar power generation . ( 2 ) regulation must include a presumption that , as far as be reasonably practicable , new development will include facility for the rooftop generation of solar power . " this new clause would require that new home to be build to a net zero carbon building standard and include provision for the generation of solar power . new clause 3 — transfer of land to local authority follow expiry of planning permission — " after section 91 of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 , insert — " 91a Transfer of land to local authority follow expiry of planning permission ( 1 ) this section apply — ( a ) where a development include the construction of 100 or more home and have not begin within the applicable period , and ( b ) where section 91 ( 4 ) of this Act do not apply . ( 2 ) there be a compelling case in the public interest for the compulsory purchase under section 17 of the Housing Act 1985 of land on which any such development be permit provide that such purchase be — ( a ) in accordance with the term of the Land Compensation act , and ( b ) complie with the relevant provision of the Human Rights Act 1998 . ( 3 ) in this section — ( a ) " applicable period " have the meaning give in section 91 ( 5 ) of this Act ; ( b ) " Land Compensation act " mean — ( i ) the Land Compensation Act 1961 ; ( ii ) the Compulsory Purchase Act 1965 ; ( iii ) the Acquisition of Land Act 1981 ; ( iv ) any other relevant act which the Secretary of State may specify . " " this new clause would mean that , where permission for a development of 100 home or more be not use within the applicable period , there be automatically a justifiable case for the compulsory purchase of the land under the Housing Act 1985 . new clause 4 — sustainable drainage — " the Secretary of State must , within six month of the passing of this Act — ( a ) bring into force Schedule 3 ( sustainable drainage ) of the Flood and Water Management Act 2010 , and ( b ) provide guidance to local planning authority , land and property developer and other relevant stakeholder on how to incorporate sustainable drainage into new development . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to bring into force the sustainable drainage provision of the Flood and Water Management Act 2010 and provide guidance on the building in of sustainable drainage in future development . new clause 5 — local planning authority discretion over affordability of housing — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within six month of the passing of this Act , provide guidance to local planning authority on how to define or classify new or prospective development as affordable housing . ( 2 ) the guidance must make clear that a local planning authority may , while have regard to national or general guideline , determine what be to be understand to be affordable housing in its area base on local need and circumstance . " this new clause would enable local planning authority to use their discretion to determine whether certain housing be to be " affordable housing " . new clause 6 — development plan to aim to improve health and well - be — " ( 1 ) any national or local plan or strategy relate to the planning or development of an area must be design to improve the physical , mental and social health and well - being of the people who be to reside in that area . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State must issue guidance to local planning authority on how local plan and strategy can be design to achieve the aim outline in subsection ( 1 ) . " this new clause would require national or local development plan to be design in a way that aim to improve the physical , mental and social health and well - being of resident . new clause 7 — new car park to include solar panel — " ( 1 ) no local planning authority may approve an application for the building of an above - ground car park which do not make the require provision of solar panel . ( 2 ) the require provision of solar panel be an amount equivalent to 50 % of the surface area of the car park . " this new clause would require solar panel to be provide with all new car park . new clause 8 — independent oversight of administration of nature restoration levy — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , before Part 3 of this Act come into force , establish an independent body to monitor the administration of the nature restoration levy by Natural England . ( 2 ) the independent body may request information from Natural England relate to Natural England ' s administration of the nature restoration levy additional to the information and report provide to the independent body by Natural England under section 66 ( 5 ) . ( 3 ) the independent body may report to the Secretary of State on — ( a ) any concern relate to Natural England ' s administration of the nature restoration levy , and ( b ) any other matter relate to Natural England ' s administration of the nature restoration levy as the independent body deem appropriate . " this new clause would provide for independent oversight of Natural England ' s administration of the nature restoration levy . new clause 9 — environmental infrastructure in new development — " ( 1 ) within six month of to the passing of this Act , the Secretary of State must make regulation under section 1 of the Building Act 1984 for the purpose of protect and enhance biodiversity . ( 2 ) regulation make under this section must — ( a ) take account of biodiversity target and interim target set out in section 1 ( 2 ) , 1 ( 3 ) ( c ) , 11 and 14 of the Environment Act 2021 ; ( b ) include measure to enable the provision in new development of — ( i ) bird box ; ( ii ) bat box ; ( iii ) swift brick ; ( iv ) hedgehog highway ; and ( v ) biodiverse roof and wall . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to introduce regulation to protect and enhance biodiversity in new development . new clause 10 — Inclusion of wildbelt in planning consideration — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within six month of the passing of this Act — ( a ) create a category of protection for wildbelt area in England for the purpose of permanently protect such area from or during development , and ( b ) issue guidance for local planning authority and other relevant party on how wildbelt land be to be protect . ( 2 ) for the purpose of subsection ( 1 ) , " permanently protect " area mean protect or restore the natural environment in a wildbelt area , and in ecosystem functionally connect to a wildbelt area . ( 3 ) Guidance issue under subsection ( 1 ) ( b ) must — ( a ) provide assistance to local planning authority and other on the identification of wildbelt site ; ( b ) impose responsibility on strategic planning authority in relation to the development of spatial development strategy regard — ( i ) the use of Local Nature Recovery strategy to protect and enhance wildbelt ; ( ii ) the reporting of progress towards the development of wildbelt site ; and ( iii ) the reporting of progress towards the use of wildbelt designation to increase public access to nature . ( 4 ) for the purpose of this section , " wildbelt " have such meaning as the Secretary of State may specify in guidance , but must include — ( a ) area of land ; ( b ) body of water and adjacent land ; ( c ) wetland . " this new clause would enable the creation of new wildbelt area and associated ecosystem , and require guidance to be issue regard the use of provision of the bill to protect wildbelt area . new clause 11 — Register of planning application from political donor — " ( 1 ) a local planning authority must maintain and publish a register of planning application in its area where — ( a ) a determination have be make by the Secretary of State responsible for housing and planning , and ( b ) the applicant have make a donation to the Secretary of State responsible for housing and planning within the period of ten year prior to the application be make . ( 2 ) a register maintain under this section must be publish at least once each year . " this new clause would require a local planning authority to keep and publish a register of application decide by the Secretary of State where that Secretary of State have receive a donation from the applicant . new clause 12 — consideration when decide an application for development consent — " in section 55 of the Planning Act 2008 ( acceptance of application ) , after subsection ( 4 ) insert — " ( 4A ) when decide whether to accept an application , the Secretary of State must have regard to the extent to which consultation with affected community have — ( a ) identify and resolve issue at the early opportunity ; ( b ) enable interested party to understand and influence the propose project , provide feedback on potential option , and encourage the community to help shape the proposal to maximise local benefit and minimise any disbenefit ; ( c ) enable applicant to obtain relevant information about the economic , social , community and environmental effect of the project ; and ( d ) enable appropriate mitigation measure to be identify , consider and , if appropriate , embed into the propose application before the application be submit . " " this new clause to the Planning Act would require the Secretary of State to consider the content and adequacy of consultation undertake with affected community when decide an application for development consent . new clause 13 — Removal of statutory consultee — " ( 1 ) a party may only be remove from the list of consultee — ( a ) in or under section 42 of the Planning Act 2008 , or ( b ) in Schedule 1 of the Infrastructure Planning ( Applications : Prescribed Forms and Procedure ) Regulations 2009 , once parliamentary approval for the removal have be signify . ( 2 ) parliamentary approval may be signify by — ( a ) the approval of a relevant statutory instrument ; ( b ) the agreement of a relevant motion . " this new clause would make the removal of statutory consultee subject to parliamentary approval . new clause 14 — electricity distribution network : land and access right — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within 12 month of the passing of this Act , consult on and implement measure to give electricity distribution network operator power in relation , but not limited , to — ( a ) the acquisition of right over land for new and exist overhead line and underground cable ; ( b ) the acquisition of land for new substation or the extension of exist substation ; ( c ) the enter into of land for the purpose of maintain exist equipment ; ( d ) the enter into of land for the purpose of manage vegetation growth which be interfere with the safety or operation of overhead equipment . ( 2 ) any power grant must be compatible with the need to complete work relate to development in a timely , inexpensive and uncomplicated manner , and may include the provision of compensation to relevant landowner . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to consult on give electricity distribution network operator power in relation to the acquisition of and access to land . new clause 15 — extension of permit development — " the Secretary of State must , within 12 month of the passing of this Act — ( a ) make provision for the following to be include as permit development — ( i ) upgrading of exist line from single to three phase ; ( ii ) alteration of conductor type ; ( iii ) increase in the height of distribution network support to maintain minimum ground clearance under the Electricity Safety , Quality and Continuity Regulations 2002 ; ( iv ) increase in the distance of support structure by up to 60 m from their exist position when replace an exist overhead line ; ( v ) in relation to new connection from an exist line , an increase in nominal voltage to a maximum of 33kv and related increase in pole height ; ( vi ) upgrading of exist line from 6 . 6kv to 11kv ; ( vii ) installation of additional stay support wood pole ; ( viii ) upgrading of exist apparatus , include the increase of capacity of pole mount transformer , subject to the provision of section 37 ( 1 ) of the Electricity Act 1989 and the Electricity Safety , Quality and Continuity Regulations 2002 ; ( ix ) temporary placement of a line for a period of up to two year . ( b ) consult on the introduction of further measure for the purpose of enable distribution network upgrade and reinforcement to be deliver as permit development . " this new clause would expand permit development right for upgrade to the transmission network . new clause 16 — Preservation of play field and pitch — " ( 1 ) a local planning authority must , when exercise any of its function , ensure the preservation of play field and play pitch . ( 2 ) the duty in subsection ( 1 ) may , when grant permission for development , be meet through the imposition of condition or requirement relate to — ( a ) the protection of play field or play pitch affect by the development ; or ( b ) the provision of alternative , additional or expand playing field or play pitch . ( 3 ) for the purpose of this section , " play field " and " play pitch " have the same meaning as in the Town and Country Planning ( Development Management Procedure ) ( England ) Order 2010 . " this new clause would require local authority to preserve play field when grant permission for development . new clause 17 — community benefit from major energy infrastructure project — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must by regulation establish a scheme under which community with a specified connection to a major energy infrastructure project be entitle to financial benefit . ( 2 ) in subsection ( 1 ) , " major energy infrastructure project " and " specify connection " have such meaning as the Secretary of State may by regulation specify , provide that any such definition include all newly consent renewable energy project . ( 3 ) financial benefit provide for by a scheme under this section must — ( a ) be provide by the owner of the relevant major energy infrastructure project , and ( b ) amount to 5 % of the annual revenue of the relevant project . ( 4 ) where a major energy infrastructure project be onshore , regulation make under this section must — ( a ) provide for two - third of the financial benefit accrue to a community under this section to be pay to the council of that community , and ( b ) provide for one third of the financial benefit accrue to a community under this section to be pay into a strategic fund operate by the council . ( 5 ) where a major energy infrastructure project be offshore , regulation make under this section must provide for the financial benefit accrue to a community under this section to be pay into a strategic fund operate by the relevant council . ( 6 ) Regulations make under this section may , among other thing — ( a ) specify the power , purpose , responsibility and constitution of a council strategic fund ; ( b ) make further provision determine which community be qualify under this section , and define community for this purpose ; ( c ) confer function in connection with the scheme ; ( d ) provide for delegation of function confer in connection with the scheme . " this new clause set out a scheme for provide financial benefit to community in area connect with major energy infrastructure scheme . new clause 18 — Local Area Energy plan — " ( 1 ) all local authority and combined authority must create a Local Area Energy Plan . ( 2 ) for the purpose of this section , a " Local Area Energy Plan " mean an outline of how the relevant authority propose to transition its area ' s energy system to Net Zero . " this new clause would require all local and combined authority to develop Local Area Energy Plans which set out how they will meet their Net Zero goal . new clause 19 — extension of use class c5 and c6 to England — " in article 1 ( 2 ) of the Town and Country Planning ( Use Classes ) ( amendment ) ( Wales ) Order 2022 , after " Wales " insert " , except in relation to article 2 ( e ) and 2 ( f ) , which apply in relation to England and Wales " . " this new clause of exist regulation would extend use class c5 ( dwellinghouse , use otherwise than as sole or main residence ) and c6 ( short - term let ) , which currently only to apply to Wales , to England . new clause 20 — change of certain use class to require permission — " in article 3 ( 1 ) of the Town and Country Planning ( Use Classes ) Order 1987 , at end insert " , subject to paragraph ( 1aa ) and ( 1AB ) . ( 1aa ) where a building be use for the purpose of Class C3 , the use of that building for the purpose of Class C5 or Class c6 ( or vice versa ) be to be take to involve development of the land . ( 1AB ) where a building be use for the purpose of Class C5 , the use of that building for the purpose of Class c6 ( or vice versa ) be to be take to involve development of the land . " " this new clause would require planning permission to be obtain to change the use of a dwelling to a second home or to a short term let use class and for change of use between those class . new clause 21 — local plan compliance with Land Use Framework and nature recovery strategy — " when develop a local plan , a local planning authority must consider whether the plan comply with — ( a ) the Land Use Framework , and ( b ) any nature recovery strategy relevant to the area cover by the plan . " this new clause seek to ensure that local Plans comply with the Land Use Framework and local nature recovery strategy . new clause 23 — Review of drainage performance of new development — " ( 1 ) a review of a development ' s drainage performance must take place five year after the completion of the development . ( 2 ) where a review recommend that action be take to improve the development ' s drainage performance , the developer must implement such recommendation , give priority to those relate to flood risk . " this new clause require developer to review the drainage performance of a development five year after be build . new clause 24 — housing need of age population — " any plan or strategy produce by a local planning authority which propose the development of housing must include an assessment of the housing need of an age population . " new clause 25 — National Landscape Partnerships to be statutory consultee for planning application — " in Schedule 4 of the Town and Country Planning ( Development Management Procedure ) Order 2015 , after paragraph ( zf ) insert — " ( zg ) Development likely to affect an area cover by a National Landscape Partnership the relevant National Landscape Partnership " " this amendment to the Town and Country Planning ( Development Management Procedure ) Order 2015 would ensure that National Landscape Partnerships be include as statutory consultee in planning application which impact their area . new clause 26 — environmental improvement duty : nature restoration levy — " ( 1 ) subsection ( 2 ) apply where Natural England agree to a request to pay the nature restoration levy . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State have a duty to ensure to a high degree of certainty base on an objective assessment that significant and measurable improvement to the conservation status of each identify environmental feature be achieve within the period cover by the EDP . " this new clause would place a duty on the Secretary of State to ensure significant environmental improvement for protect feature during the EDP period . new clause 27 — Gardens Trust to be statutory consultee for planning application — " in Schedule 4 of the Town and Country Planning ( Development Management Procedure ) ( England ) Order 2015 , after paragraph ( zf ) insert — " ( zg ) Development likely to affect historic park or garden the Gardens Trust " " this new clause would ensure that the Gardens Trust be include as statutory consultee in planning application . new clause 28 — pre - application consultation of emergency service — " in Schedule 4 of the Town and Country Planning ( Development Management Procedure ) ( England ) Order 2015 , after paragraph ( zf ) insert — " ( zg ) Development which be likely to affect operation of ambulance service the ambulance trust concern ( zh ) Development which be likely to affect operation of fire and rescue service the fire and rescue service concern " " new clause 29 — support for small business and charity affect by roadwork — " ( 1 ) this section apply where — ( a ) any building or development work require or involve work to or on the road network , or otherwise result in road closure , ( b ) such roadwork or closure have last , or be expect to last , for a period of six month or more , and ( c ) any small business or charitable organisation suffer a material financial , access or other detriment result from the roadwork or closure . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State must make provision for any affected small business or charitable organisation to receive financial compensation or other equivalent support to recover or mitigate the detriment suffer . " new clause 30 — permit development for pond — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within six month of the passing of this Act , make regulation under the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 to amend Schedule 2 to the Town and Country Planning ( General Permitted Development ) ( England ) Order 2015 so as to include the creation of pond with a surface area of less than 0 . 2 hectare as permit development . ( 2 ) for the purpose of this section , " pond " mean a permanent or seasonal stand body of water with a surface area not exceed 2 hectare . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to make regulation to allow the creation of new pond under 0 . 2 hectare in size without plan permission be require . new clause 31 — threshold for affordable housing provision — " where an application propose or be require to provide affordable housing , no amendment to the amount of affordable housing to be develop may be make if the amendment would result in the amount of affordable housing to be develop fail to exceed the high of — ( a ) the relevant authority ' s affordable housing threshold , or ( b ) twenty per cent of the total amount of housing provide in the development . " this new clause would place low limit on the amount of affordable housing development which intend to provide such housing must provide . new clause 32 — housing plan to include quota for affordable and social housing — " ( 1 ) any national or local plan or strategy which relate to the building or development of housing must include specific quota for the provision of — ( a ) affordable housing , and ( b ) social housing . ( 2 ) where a national or local plan or strategy include quota for the provision of affordable and social housing , the plan or strategy must include justification for the quota . " this new clause would require national and local housing plan to include , and justify , quota for the provision of both affordable and social housing . new clause 33 — power to decline application base on outcome of previous grant of permission — " ( 1 ) where a local planning authority have previously give planning permission to a party ( the " initial grant " ) , the planning authority may decline any future planning application from the party where , in respect of the initial grant of planning permission , the party have fail to — ( a ) build out the structure or development , ( b ) make sufficient progress towards the building out of the structure or development within a reasonable time period , or ( c ) build out the structure or development at a reasonable rate . ( 2 ) a local planning authority may define how it be to interpret " sufficient progress " , " reasonable time period " and " reasonable rate " as part of its local plan . " this new clause would enable local planning authority to decline planning application from party which have fail to build , or make sufficient progress on , project for which permission have previously be grant . new clause 34 — additional business rate for developer not complete approve development — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within six month of the passing of this Act , hold a public consultation on provide local authority who exercise the function of local planning authority with the power to levy additional business rate on — ( a ) land owner , and ( b ) developer who fail to complete the development of project for which permission have be grant within a reasonable period . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State must , within 18 month of the conclusion of the public consultation , lie before both Houses of Parliament — ( a ) a report on the finding of the consultation , and ( b ) a statement set out the Secretary of State ' s response to those finding . " new clause 35 — Review of the setting of local plan under the National Planning Policy Framework — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within 6 month of the passing of this Act , review the National Planning Policy Framework with regard to the setting of local plan . ( 2 ) the review must consider in particular replace the exist " call for site " process with a requirement for local planning authority to identify site within their area which be necessary to meet — ( a ) local housing target , and ( b ) the United Nations ' 17 Sustainable Development Goals . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to review the setting of local plan with a view to replace the exist " call for site " process with a requirement for local planning authority to identify site which meet housing target and the UN ' s Sustainable Development Goal . new clause 36 — purpose and principle to be follow by party exercise planning or development function — " ( 1 ) any party exercise any function in relation to planning and development must — ( a ) have regard to the purpose of the planning system outline in subsection ( 2 ) , and ( b ) apply the principle outline in subsection ( 3 ) for the purpose of achieve sustainable development . ( 2 ) the purpose of the planning system be to promote the spatial organisation of land and resource to achieve the long - term sustainable development of the nation and the health and wellbeing of individual . ( 3 ) the principle be — ( a ) live within environmental limit ; ( b ) ensure a strong , healthy and just society ; ( c ) achieve a sustainable economy ; ( d ) promote good governance include promote democratic engagement and accountability ; and ( e ) use sound science responsibly . ( 4 ) for the purpose of this section , " sustainable development " mean manage the use , development and protection of land and natural resource in a way which enable people and community to provide for their legitimate social , economic and cultural wellbeing while ensure the health and integrity of terrestrial and marine ecosystem and the specie within they , as well as the wellbeing of future generation . " the new clause would define the purpose of the planning system and of planning as promote the efficient spatial organisation of land and resource to achieve the long - term sustainable development of the nation and the health and wellbeing of individual . new clause 37 — right to appeal against approve application — " in section 78 of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 ( right to appeal against planning decision and failure to take such decision ) , after subsection ( 2 ) insert — " ( 2A ) where a local planning authority approve an application for planning permission which — ( a ) do not accord with the provision of the development plan in force in the area in which the land to which the application relate be situate , or ( b ) be a major application , the party specify in subsection ( 2B ) may appeal to the Secretary of State against the decision to approve the application . ( 2b ) the party be — ( a ) any person who have lodge a formal objection to the application in write to the relevant planning authority ; ( b ) any other person that a person appoint by the Secretary of State use their discretion to permit to appeal . ( 2C ) the Secretary of State must appoint a person to — ( a ) define " major application " for the purpose of subsection ( 2A ) ( b ) ; ( b ) consider party to be permit to appeal against a decision to approve an application under subsection ( 2B ) ( b ) . " " this new clause would create a limited third - party right of appeal for certain individual to appeal to the Secretary of State where a local authority have approve a development that do not accord with a local development plan . new clause 38 — dismissal of appeal or referral — " in section 79 of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 ( determination of appeal ) , after subsection ( 6a ) insert — " ( 6b ) the Secretary of State may dismiss an appeal or referral where , have consider the appeal or referral , the Secretary of State be of the opinion that the appeal or referral be — ( a ) vexatious , frivolous or without substance or foundation , or ( b ) make with the sole intention of — ( i ) delay the development , or ( ii ) secure the payment of money , gift or other inducement by any person . " " this new clause would enable the Secretary of State to dismiss appeal or referral in certain circumstance . new clause 39 — prohibition of solar development on high - quality agricultural land — " no permission may be grant for the building or installation of provision for solar power generation where the development would involve — ( a ) the building on or development of agricultural land at grade 1 , 2 , or 3a , and ( b ) building or installation at ground - level . " this new clause would prohibit the development of solar power generation on high quality agricultural land . new clause 40 — Review of method for assess local housing need — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within six month of the passing of this Act , review the standard method for assess local housing need . ( 2 ) a review under this section must consider — ( a ) how the method for assess local housing need should consider different type of property ; ( b ) base calculation on price per square metre rather than price per unit . ( 3 ) in conduct a review under this section , the Secretary of State must consult — ( a ) local council ; and ( b ) any other party the Secretary of State consider appropriate . ( 4 ) upon completion of the review , the Secretary of State must — ( a ) lay before Parliament a report which summarise the evidence consider in the review and the review ' s final conclusion or recommendation ; ( b ) provide guidance to local planning authority and other relevant body on how they should calculate and consider local housing need . " new clause 41 — new town to contribute towards housing target — " in any national or local plan or strategy which set target for the building of new house , house build as part of new town may contribute to the meeting of such target . " new clause 43 — protection of village — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within six month of the passing of this Act , issue guidance for local planning authority , or update any relevant exist guidance , relate to the protection of village . ( 2 ) any guidance issue under this section must provide village with equivalent protection , so far as be appropriate , as be provide for town in relation to — ( a ) prevent village from merge into one another , ( b ) prevent village merge into town , and ( c ) preserve the setting and special character of historic village . " this new clause would provide exist village with protection equivalent to that currently provide to town under the NPPF . new clause 44 — sustainable drainage ( no . 2 ) — " the Secretary of State must , within one month of the passing of this Act — ( a ) bring into force Schedule 3 ( sustainable drainage ) of the Flood and Water Management Act 2010 , and ( b ) provide guidance to local planning authority , land and property developer and other relevant stakeholder on — ( i ) how to incorporate sustainable drainage into new development , and ( ii ) the minimum expect standard for ongoing maintenance of sustainable drainage infrastructure . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to bring into force the sustainable drainage provision of the Flood and Water Management Act 2010 and provide guidance on the building in of sustainable drainage in future development . new clause 45 — no planning permission to be grant in case of intentional unauthorised development — " ( 1 ) a local planning authority may not grant consent for development where there have be intentional unauthorised development in respect of the land or property which be to be subject to that development . ( 2 ) for the purpose of this section , " intentional unauthorised development " — ( a ) include any development of land undertake in advance of obtain planning permission ; ( b ) do not include any unintentional , minor or trivial work undertake without have obtain the relevant permission . ( 3 ) where work under subsection ( 2 ) ( b ) be undertake , the local planning authority may require relevant permission to be obtain retrospectively . " new clause 46 — duty to complete development of local infrastructure — " ( 1 ) this section apply where — ( a ) a Development Consent Order be make provide for , or ( b ) a Strategic Development Scheme include provision for , the development of local infrastructure . ( 2 ) where subsection ( 1 ) apply , the developer must deliver the relevant local infrastructure in full . ( 3 ) for the purpose of this section , " local infrastructure " have such meaning as the Secretary of State may specify , but must include — ( a ) school , ( b ) nursery , and ( c ) General Practice clinic . ( 4 ) a duty under this section may be disapplie with the consent of the relevant local planning authority . " this new clause aim to ensure that commitment to provide local infrastructure such as school and GP clinic , approve as part of a development , be permanent and legally binding . new clause 47 — development of land for the public benefit — " ( 1 ) this section apply where — ( a ) a developer have enter into an obligation under section 106 of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 which require the development of local community infrastructure ; and ( b ) such development — ( i ) have not be complete , and it be not intend or anticipate that the development will be complete ; or ( ii ) have be subject to a change of circumstance which mean that it will not or can not be use for its intended purpose . ( 2 ) where this section apply — ( a ) the relevant land remain under the ownership of the local planning authority ; ( b ) the local planning authority may only develop or permit the development of the land for the purpose of provide a community asset ; ( c ) the local planning authority must , when propose to develop the land under subsection ( 2 ) ( b ) , consult the local community before commence development or grant permission for any development . ( 3 ) for the purpose of this section — " local community infrastructure " mean a development for the benefit of the local community , include school , nursery , and medical centre , " community asset " mean — ( a ) a public park ; ( b ) a public leisure facility ; ( c ) social housing ; ( d ) such other asset as the local planning authority may specify , provide that their development be to meet the need of the local community . " this new clause provide that land designate development as community infrastructure under a S106 agreement will not be return to a developer to use for other purpose in the event that the original purpose be not fulfil . it provide instead that land would remain under the control of the local planning authority for development as a community asset . new clause 48 — Neighbourhood plan — " the Secretary of State may only — ( a ) grant a development consent order where the Secretary of State believe that the application for consent give due consideration to any relevant neighbourhood plan ; ( b ) permit a variation to a neighbourhood plan which , in the opinion of the Secretary of State — ( i ) be clearly justifiable ; ( ii ) be unlikely to compromise the overall intention of the neighbourhood plan ; and ( iii ) have be propose in a clear and timely manner . " this new clause would require due consideration to be give to neighbourhood plan when decide on an application for development consent . new clause 49 — Review of land value capture — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within six month of the passing of this Act , conduct a review of land value capture . ( 2 ) a review under this section must consider — ( a ) the benefit of different method of land value capture ; ( b ) international good practice ; ( c ) how change to exist practice could assist in the meeting of housing target and the delivery of critical infrastructure and public service ; and ( d ) how any change to exist practice could be incorporate into UK planning law . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State must , within six month of the conclusion of the review , lie before Parliament a report on the finding of the review . " to require a review into method of land value capture , to ensure the public benefit from instance where land value rise sharply , and for this to be consider to be incorporate into UK planning legislation . new clause 50 — Guidance relate to social rent home — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within six month of the passing of this Act , provide or update guidance for all party involve in local or national planning decision on how they can contribute to the provision of social rent home through the exercise of their planning or development function . ( 2 ) Guidance produce under this section must include reference to the number of social rent home which the Government intend to be deliver each year . " this new clause require the Government to set a national target for the number of Social Rent home to be deliver per year . new clause 51 — prohibition of solar development and battery storage facility on all agricultural land — " no permission may be grant for the building or installation of provision for solar power generation or battery storage where the development would involve — ( a ) the building on or development of any grade of agricultural land use in food production , and ( b ) building or installation at ground - level . " this new clause would prohibit the development of solar power generation and battery storage on all agricultural land . new clause 52 — local planning authority power relate to new town — " ( 1 ) a local planning authority whose area include the whole or any part of a new town may — ( a ) include any of the area of the new town as land to be develop in any local plan which cover a period between the designation of the new town and the completion of development , ( b ) include in the local planning authority ' s housing target any house expect to be provide by or in the new town during the period cover by the local planning authority ' s local plan , ( c ) include any housing expect to be provide by or in the new town in any consideration of the local planning authority ' s 5 year housing land supply , and ( d ) disregard National Planning Policy Framework guidance relate to the duty on local planning authority and county council to cooperate on strategic matter cross administrative boundary as it relate to the delivery of housing number originally allocate to a neighbouring authority . ( 2 ) for the purpose of this section , " new town " mean a town develop by a corporation under section 1 of the New Towns Act 1981 . " this new clause would provide local planning authority with the ability to include new town in local plan and housing target , and give planning authority certain power with regard to new town . new clause 53 — prohibition of development on functional floodplain — " ( 1 ) no local planning authority may grant planning permission for any development which be to take place on a functional floodplain . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State must , within three month of the passing of this Act , issue new guidance , or update exist guidance where such guidance exist , relate to development in flood zone and the management of flood risk . " this new clause would prevent local planning authority from allow development on functional floodplain . new clause 54 — assessment of impact of nature restoration levy on environmental protection — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must publish an annual assessment of the impact of the introduction of a nature restoration levy . ( 2 ) any report publish under this section must include — ( a ) an analysis of the impact of — ( i ) the introduction of a nature restoration levy , and ( ii ) the disregarding of obligation under section 65 ( 3 ) on environmental protection ; and ( b ) an overview of each occasion where — ( i ) the nature restoration levy have be pay , and ( ii ) obligation have be disregard under section 65 ( 3 ) . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to publish assessment of the impact of the nature restoration levy and the disregarding of obligation under the Habitats Regulations 2017 or Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981 on environmental protection . new clause 55 — impact on major infrastructure on local area — " the presence , or plan presence , of any major infrastructure project in an area may — ( a ) exempt the relevant local planning authority from be require to meet national or local housing target or other development target ; ( b ) be a material consideration in any decision - making relate to further development propose in that area . " this new clause would ensure that area host piece of major infrastructure – such as transport project , prison and NSIPs – may not be expect to meet their full housing or other development target and can have such project take into account when decision relate to further planning application be make . new clause 56 — building regulation : biodiversity — " ( 1 ) within six month of the passing of this Act the Secretary of State must bring forward regulation under section 1 of the Building Act 1984 for the purpose of — ( a ) protect and enhance biodiversity , and ( b ) contribute to the achievement of biodiversity target and interim target set out under the Environment Act 2021 . ( 2 ) regulation under this section must include provision — ( a ) for the appropriate installation and maintenance of measure include — ( i ) bird box , ( ii ) bat box , ( iii ) swift brick , ( iv ) hedgehog highway , ( v ) splash - free pavement , and ( vi ) biodiverse roof and wall , ( b ) limit the use of artificial grass in a garden or in or on land associate with a dwelling or building cover by the regulation . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to introduce regulation to require new development to include design feature that will contribute to the protection and enhancement of biodiversity and the achievement of Environment Act target . new clause 57 — co - ordination in the development of energy project — " ( 1 ) where two or more energy developer be engage in the development of project relate to energy infrastructure within the same area , there be a duty on each developer to — ( a ) exchange relevant information relate to project design , construction , and environmental impact ; ( b ) cooperate in the development of share infrastructure where feasible and appropriate ; ( c ) take reasonable step to reduce cumulative impact on the environment , local community , and exist infrastructure ; and ( d ) seek alignment of timeline and operational practice to minimise disruption . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State must , within 12 month of the passing of this Act , publish guidance for such developer , which must include — ( a ) criterion for determine when coordination be require ; ( b ) mechanism for dispute resolution between developer ; ( c ) standard for joint planning and reporting ; and ( d ) detail of consultation require with affected local authority and community . ( 3 ) where subsection ( 1 ) apply , a relevant local planning authority may require the submission of a Joint Coordination Statement by the developer . ( 4 ) a Joint Coordination Statement must include — ( a ) an overview of each developer ' s propose work within the area , ( b ) an identification of share infrastructure opportunity , ( c ) assessment of cumulative environmental and social impact , ( d ) detail of measure propose to mitigate identify environmental and social impact , and ( e ) a propose governance structure for ongoing coordination during construction and operation , and must be submit as part of or in addition to development consent application . ( 5 ) a party which fail to comply with any of the requirement of this section may be subject to — ( a ) a delay in granting , or a refusal of , development consent ; ( b ) the imposition of condition on an application for consent require such coordination ; or ( c ) such financial or legal penalty as may be prescribe by the Secretary of State in regulation . ( 6 ) for the purpose of this section — " area " mean an area determine by the relevant planning authority or Secretary of State where coordination be deem necessary due to overlap or adjacent project ; " energy developer " mean any person or body undertaking or propose to undertake energy generation , transmission , or distribution infrastructure project ; " share infrastructure " include road , grid connection , substation , and other physical or operational system . " this new clause would require developer to cooperate in the development of energy project when they be take place in the same area . it also empower local planning authority to require statement detail such cooperation . new clause 58 — environment and climate duty : forestry land — " when exercise any planning or development function relate to forestry land , or when contribute to or participate in the exercise of any such function , the appropriate forestry authority must take all reasonable step to contribute to — ( a ) the achievement of target set under section 1 to 3 of the Environment Act 2021 and any interim target set out in the Environmental Improvement Plan ; ( b ) the achievement of target set under Part 1 of the Climate Change Act 2008 ; and ( c ) the delivery of the programme for adaptation to climate change under section 58 of the Climate Change Act 2008 . " new clause 59 — regard to exist use of land in exercise of planning function — " after section 58b of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 insert — " 58c duty of regard to exist use of land in grant permission ( 1 ) in consider whether to grant planning permission or permission in principle for the development of land in England , the decision maker must have special regard to the exist use of land within the vicinity of the land in relation to which permission be be consider . ( 2 ) in comply with this section , the decision maker must consider whether to grant permission subject to such condition that would promote the integration of the propose development of land with any exist use of land , include such condition as may be necessary to mitigate the impact of noise on the propose development . ( 3 ) in this section , " decision maker " mean the local planning authority or ( as the case may be ) the Secretary of State . " " this new clause impose a duty to have special regard to the exist use of land when consider whether to grant planning permission and , in particular , whether there be any planning condition that would promote the integration of the propose development ( such as condition relate to mitigation of noise cause by an exist use ) . this reflect the " agent of change " principle refer to in paragraph 200 of the National Planning Policy Framework . new clause 60 — time - limit permission for landfill site — " where — ( a ) planning permission have previously be grant for a landfill site , ( b ) landfill operation at the site have be cease for a period of ten year , and ( c ) a new party wish to resume landfill operation at the site , the party who wish to resume landfill operation at the site must submit a new application for permission to develop or operate the landfill site . " this new clause would mean that , where a landfill site have be dormant for a period of ten year , a new planning application be require to resume operation at the site . new clause 61 — minimum depth requirement for underground cable on agricultural land — " ( 1 ) where a development involve the laying of electrical or communication cable under land currently in active agricultural use , such cable must be bury to a minimum depth of 1 . 8 metre from the surface level . ( 2 ) for the purpose of subsection ( 1 ) , " active agricultural use " include , but be not limit to , land use for arable farming , include the ploughing , sowing , and harvesting of crop . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation provide for exemption from the requirement in subsection ( 1 ) only where — ( a ) the developer can demonstrate that instal at such depth be technically unfeasible , and ( b ) alternative measure be put in place to ensure active agricultural use be not adversely affect . ( 4 ) regulation under subsection ( 4 ) must be make by statutory instrument and must not come into force until approve by a resolution of each House of Parliament . " this new clause would require electrical or communication cable require as part of a new development to be instal at least 1 . 8 m under agricultural land . new clause 62 — Impact of the Act on biodiversity and nature investment — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within 3 month of the passing of this Act , publish a report on the impact of the nature restoration levy on – ( a ) biodiversity net gain , and ( b ) initiative to encourage investment in nature market . ( 2 ) a report produce under this section must be lay before both Houses of Parliament . " new clause 63 — Guidance on plant along highway — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within six month of the passing of this Act , issue guidance for developer , local planning authority and other relevant party on the planting of tree , shrub , plant or grass alongside highway construct as part of — ( a ) any new transport infrastructure ; ( b ) any other development for which consent have be grant . ( 2 ) Guidance issue under this section must — ( a ) outline how licence condition under section 142 ( 5 ) of the Highways Act 1980 ( licence to plant tree , shrub , etc . , in a highway ) be to be apply and comply with in a way which — ( i ) be not unreasonably burdensome on applicant for licence , and ( ii ) do not prevent or discourage the planting of tree , shrub , plant or grass ; ( b ) provide model licence condition , standard design , and planting palette . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to publish guidance on the planting of tree and other plant alongside new highway . new clause 64 — Rural Exception site — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within six month of the passing of this Act , take step to support the delivery of housing through the Rural Exception Sites mechanism . ( 2 ) step to be take must include — ( a ) review the National Planning Policy Framework ; ( b ) publish good practice guidance on — ( i ) assess the viability of Rural Exception site ; ( ii ) the setting of incentive for landowner and delivery partner to deliver housing on Rural Exception Sites . " new clause 65 — provision of green space in new housing development — " any application for permission for the development of housing must include provision for — ( a ) green space , include private garden , balcony , and community garden ; ( b ) open green space which can be access by resident use active transport within fifteen minute ; and ( c ) the care and maintenance of the green space provide for under this section . " new clause 66 — fire authority to be statutory consultee for application relate to Battery Energy Storage Solutions — " in Schedule 4 of the Town and Country Planning ( Development Management Procedure ) Order 2015 , after paragraph ( zf ) insert — ' ( zg ) Development involve Battery Energy Storage Solutions the relevant fire authority ' " this new clause would ensure that fire authority be include as statutory consultee in planning application involve Battery Energy Storage Solutions ( BESS ' s ) . new clause 67 — requirement to undertake planned affordable housing construction — " ( 1 ) where an application to develop affordable housing have be grant , no amendment to the amount of affordable housing to be develop may be make if the reason for the amendment include — ( a ) the affordability to the applicant ; or ( b ) that provide such affordable housing would make the development unprofitable for the applicant . ( 2 ) this section apply where the provision of affordable housing form the whole of or part of the propose development . ( 3 ) for the purpose of this section " develop " have the meaning give by section 336 of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 . " this new clause would mean that , where a developer have commit in their initial application to provide a certain number of affordable home , they would be prohibit from lower that provision base on affordability or profitability . new clause 71 — Display of new advertisement — " in section 220 ( 1 ) of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 ( regulation control display of advertisement ) , omit " amenity or public safety " and insert " amenity , environmental impact , public safety or public health . " this new clause amend the section 220 of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 to add environmental impact and public health to the consideration for which the Secretary of State can restrict or regulate the display of advertisement . new clause 73 — building regulation : swift brick — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within six month of the passing of this Act , introduce regulation under Section 1 of the Building Act 1984 to make provision for the installation of an average of one swift brick per dwelling or unit great than 5 metre in height . ( 2 ) Regulations must require the installation of swift brick in line with good practice guidance , except where such installation be not practicable or appropriate . ( 3 ) for the purpose of this section — " swift brick " mean an integral nest box integrate into the wall of a building suitable for the nesting of the Common Swift and other cavity nesting specie ; " good practice guidance " mean the British Standard BS 42021 : 2022 . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to introduce regulation to require the installation of integral bird nest box and swift box in development great than 5 metre in height . swift brick provide nesting habitat for all bird specie reliant on cavity nest habitat in building to breed . new clause 74 — refusal of permission to reduce affordable housing in large scale development — " ( 1 ) if an application be make for reserved planning permission relate to a large scale housing development which seek to reduce the amount of affordable housing originally propose by a developer as part of an application for outline planning permission , the local planning authority must refuse the application . ( 2 ) where — ( a ) a local planning authority have agree an application for a modification or discharge of a planning obligation under section 106a of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 , and ( b ) the modification or discharge would reduce the amount of affordable housing from that originally propose by a developer in the outline planning application , this section apply . ( 3 ) in this section " large scale housing development " mean any development which include more than 500 house in the outline planning application . " new clause 75 — change of certain use class to require permission — " in article 3 ( 1 ) of the Town and Country Planning ( Use Classes ) Order 1987 , at end insert " , subject to paragraph ( 1aa ) and ( 1AB ) . ( 1aa ) where a building be use for the purpose of Class C3 , the use of that building for the purpose of Class C4 be to be take to involve development of the land . " " this new clause would mean that convert a residential dwelling into a house of multiple occupation would require planning permission . new clause 77 — embody carbon assessment — " ( 1 ) local planning authority must , within 12 month of the passing of this Act — ( a ) require application for permission for development which exceed a specified gross internal area and number of dwelling to include an embody carbon assessment ; ( b ) consider a relevant embody carbon assessment as a material factor when consider whether to grant permission for the development . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State must — ( a ) approve a methodology for calculate embody carbon emission ; ( b ) provide guidance on how the whole - life carbon emission of building must be express ; and ( c ) establish a centralised reporting platform to which embody carbon and whole life carbon assessment must be submit . ( 3 ) for the purpose of this section — " embody carbon " mean the total emission associate with material and construction process involve in the full life cycle of a project ; " whole life carbon " mean the combination of embodied and operational emission across the full life cycle of a project ; " operational emission " mean the carbon emission from the energy use once a project be operational , include from heating , lighting and cool . " this new clause would require the submission of embody carbon assessment for large development as part of the planning application and consideration of these by local planning authority . the Secretary of State will be require to approve a methodology , issue guidance , and establish a centralised reporting platform for whole - life carbon emission . new clause 78 — requirement regard the provision of social housing under housing plan — " ( 1 ) any national or local plan or strategy which relate to the building or development of housing must — ( a ) state the proportion of social housing which must be provide as part of any such development ; and ( b ) require any such housing to be deliver to a net zero carbon building standard . ( 2 ) the proportion of social rent housing to be provide under subsection ( 1 ) ( a ) must be base on an assessment of the need for social rent home in the relevant area . ( 3 ) any assessment of the need for social rent home must consider — ( a ) level of homelessness , ( b ) the number of child in temporary accommodation , and ( c ) the number of household on social housing waiting list , in the relevant area . " this new clause would require housing plan to state the proportion of social rent housing to be provide ( base on an assessment of need ) and require those home to be build to a net zero carbon building standard . new clause 79 — duty of cooperation between neighbouring authority — " ( 1 ) a local planning authority have a duty to cooperate with neighbour local planning authority when consider an application for development consent which could affect the area of a neighbouring local planning authority . ( 2 ) in carry out a duty to cooperate under this section , a local planning authority must — ( a ) consult neighbouring authority on the content of the application ; ( b ) take account of any neighbouring authority ' s response to such consultation when reach a decision on the application . ( 3 ) for the purpose of this section , a development affect the area of a neighbouring local planning authority if — ( a ) it directly adjoin any land within the area ; or ( b ) the construction , maintenance and occupation of the development would alter the environment , character , or infrastructure of the area . " this new clause will ensure that Local Authorities have to work together when consider planning application that will also impact the neighbouring Authority due to its geographical location . new clause 80 — distribution of s . 106 funding between local planning area — " ( 1 ) this section apply where a person interested in land in the area of a local planning authority have — ( a ) enter into a planning obligation under section 106 of the Town and Country Act 1990 , ( b ) the planning obligation require a sum or sum to be pay to the authority on a specified date or date or periodically , and ( c ) the land in question be within a certain proximity of an area of a neighbouring local planning authority . ( 2 ) a local planning authority have a duty to distribute part or part of the sum or sum to the neighbouring planning authority . ( 3 ) where the condition in subsection ( 1 ) be meet in relation to more than one neighbour local planning authority , the duty apply in such a way as to require distribution to each neighbouring authority . ( 4 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation make by statutory instrument specify — ( a ) the method by which any sum payable to a neighbouring local authority be to be calculate and distribute ; ( b ) the meaning of — ( i ) " certain proximity of an area " , and ( ii ) " neighbouring planning authority " for the purpose of this section ; ( c ) any other provision as the Secretary of State deem appropriate for the purpose of this section . ( 5 ) a statutory instrument contain regulation under this section may not be make unless a draft of the instrument have be lay before and approve by a resolution of each House of Parliament . " this new clause will require local authority to distribute s . 106 funding to neighbouring authority should a development be in proximity to that local authority area . new clause 81 — Subsidy of s . 106 agreement prior to development — " ( 1 ) this section apply where — ( a ) a person interested in land in the area of a local planning authority have enter into a planning obligation under section 106 of the Town and Country Act 1990 , and ( b ) the person have receive development consent for — ( i ) housing , and ( ii ) any infrastructure reasonably connect with the provision of that housing . ( 2 ) the person may only begin development if — ( a ) the Secretary of State have pay to the local planning authority a sum equivalent to any sum under the section 106 agreement for the purpose of develop infrastructure ; ( b ) the person apply for permission must enter into an agreement with the Secretary of State to repay to they the total sum pay out under paragraph ( a ) ( a " repayment agreement " ) . ( 3 ) for the purpose of this section , " infrastructure " have such meaning as the Secretary of State may specify , but may include — ( a ) roadway ; ( b ) utility ; ( c ) educational provision ; ( d ) medical facility ; ( e ) recreational facility ; ( f ) route for active travel . " this amendment will enable the Secretary of State to pay the equivalent of s . 106 contribution to local authority up front for the purpose of develop planned infrastructure , and thereafter reclaim it from the relevant developer . new clause 82 — play Sufficiency Duty — " ( 1 ) a local planning authority in England must , so far as reasonably practicable , assess , secure , enhance , and protect sufficient opportunity for child ' s play when exercise any of its planning function . ( 2 ) in fulfil the duty under subsection ( 1 ) , a local planning authority must — ( a ) undertake and publish play sufficiency assessment at interval to be define in regulation ; ( b ) integrate the finding and recommendation of such assessment into local plan , relevant strategy , infrastructure planning , and development decision ; ( c ) not give permission for any development which would lead to a net loss of formal or informal play space except where equivalent or improved provision be secure ; ( d ) require new development to provide high - quality , accessible , inclusive play opportunity which incorporate natural feature and be integrate within broad public space ; and ( e ) consult regularly with child , family , community , and play professional regard play provision . ( 3 ) a play sufficiency assessment produce under subsection ( 2 ) ( a ) must specifically evaluate and report on the quantity , quality , accessibility , inclusivity , and integration of play opportunity within the planning authority ' s area . ( 4 ) the Secretary of State may , by regulation , specify — ( a ) the frequency , methodology , content , and publication requirement of play sufficiency assessment ; ( b ) minimum design standard and quality expectation for formal and informal play provision ; ( c ) developer obligation regard play infrastructure contribution to be secure through planning condition . ( 5 ) for the purpose of this section — " play " mean activity undertake by child and young people that be freely choose , self - direct , and carry out follow their own interest , in their own way , and for their own reason ; " play opportunity " include formal and informal play space , park , open space , street , school , neighbourhood space , natural green area , active travel route , supervise play setting ( include adventure playground ) , and community recreation facility ; " sufficient " mean adequate in quantity , quality , accessibility , inclusivity , and integration within community infrastructure . " new clause 83 — housing development to include child ' s play area — any application for the development of new housing where the majority of unit comprise more than one bedroom must include provision for adequate outdoor child ' s play area as part of the development . " new clause 84 — prohibition of battery energy storage system on high - quality agricultural land — " no permission may be grant for the building or installation of provision for battery energy storage system where the development would involve the building on or development of agricultural land at grade 1 , 2 , or 3a . " this new clause would prohibit the development of battery energy storage system on high quality agricultural land . new clause 86 — Joint Nature and Conservation Committee Report — " ( 1 ) the Joint Nature and Conservation Committee must publish a report on how good to consolidate the provision of the Conservation of Habitats and Species Regulations 2017 into the Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981 in so far as they relate to planning and development . ( 2 ) the report require by subsection ( 1 ) must be publish by the end of 2025 . " this new clause would require the Joint Nature and Conservation Committee to report on how to consolidate the Conservation of Habitats and Species Regulations 2017 and the Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981 , in so far as they relate to planning and development . new clause 87 — designation of chalk stream as protect site — " within six month of the passage of this Act , the Secretary of State must publish proposal to designate more chalk stream as protect site " . this amendment would require the Secretary of State to designate as protect site more of the 209 out of 220 chalk stream that be not currently legally protect . new clause 88 — Use of grey water recycling in new development — " in any application for development , the applicant must include a statement outline their consideration of and proposal for the use of grey water recycling in the new property . " new clause 89 — prohibition of cross - subsidy on Rural Exception site — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within six month of the passing of this Act , take step to prohibit cross - subsidy on Rural Exception Sites . ( 2 ) step to be take must include review the National Planning Policy Framework . ( 3 ) for the purpose of this section , " cross - subsidy " mean the use of any financial proceed from the sale or letting of housing at market rate on a Rural Exception Site for the purpose of subsidise the sale or letting of any other housing on the same Rural Exception Site . " this new clause would require the secretary of state to take step to prohibit cross - subsidy on rural exception site . new clause 90 — Cap on profit for developer — " ( 1 ) within six month of the passing of this Act , the Secretary of State must make regulation which limit the profit which may be make by a housing or property developer . ( 2 ) regulation under this section must — ( a ) provide that a developer may not make a profit from a development which be great than 10 % of the estimate cost of the scheme to be develop ; ( b ) where a developer make a profit of more than 10 % , set out procedure for the reclamation and use of any excess profit . ( 3 ) this section apply to all development which receive consent after the passing of this Act . " this new clause would limit the profit a developer make from any development to 10 % of the estimate cost of the development . new clause 91 — extension and application of use class in planning — " ( 1 ) a local planning authority must prescribe a limit on the number of building within its area which be use for the purpose of Class C5 or c6 . ( 2 ) before set a limit under subsection ( 1 ) a local planning authority must — ( a ) consult resident of the local planning area , and ( b ) publish a report on the outcome of the consultation . ( 3 ) a local planning authority must refuse any application for development consent which would have the effect of increase the number of building use for the purpose of Class C5 or c6 above any limit prescribe under subsection ( 1 ) . " this new clause would require local planning authority to place a limit on the number ( or proportion of housing stock ) of second home and short - term let in their area , and refuse planning application that would have the effect of exceed the limit . new clause 92 — change in use class upon transfer of property — " ( 1 ) where a building — ( a ) be use the purpose of Class C5 or c6 , and ( b ) there be a change in its registered owner , the use class of the building be to be automatically amend to Class C3 . ( 2 ) in this section , " change in its registered owner " mean any change in the ownership of a property which require a registration , or amendment to an exist registration make , with the Land Registry . " this new clause would require that when property use as a short - term let or second home change owner , it revert immediately to have permission only to be use as a main residence , unless subsequent planning permission be seek and secure . new clause 93 — permit development and charging point — " ( 1 ) part 2 of Schedule 2 to the Town and Country Planning ( General Permitted Development ) ( England ) Order 2015 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in paragraph d of class d , after " parking " , insert " or adjacent to a public highway lawfully use for on - street parking where a local highway authority approve cross - pavement charging solution be instal , " . ( 3 ) in paragraph 1 of class d , after subparagraph ( a ) add — " ( b ) overhang the footway by more than 150 mm perpendicular to the property boundary include the cable plug when it be plug in ; " " . this new clause extend permit development right to charge point power ev park on - street , where an approve cross - pavement charging solution be present and the charger do not overhang the footway by more than 15 cm . installation still require approval by the Local Highways Authority to control liability , maintenance , and parking arrangement . new clause 94 — installation of digital infrastructure — " in section 48 of the New Roads and Street Works Act 1991 ( street , street work and undertaker ) , after subsection ( 3 ) insert — " ( 3za ) in this part , " street work " also include work relate to digital infrastructure , and any reference to subsection ( 3 ) be to be read accordingly . " " . new clause 95 — Digital infrastructure planning officer — " ( 1 ) local planning authority must appoint person to carry out function relate to the promotion of digital infrastructure development within the planning system . ( 2 ) such person may — ( a ) advise planning officer , committee , and any other relevant person about the inclusion of digital infrastructure within a propose development ; ( b ) assess the digital infrastructure need of any local community likely to be affect by a propose development ; ( c ) propose amendment to propose development to improve the provision of digital infrastructure ; ( d ) carry out any other duty relate to the assessment and provision of digital infrastructure within propose development as the local planning authority may require . ( 3 ) any amendment propose under paragraph ( 2 ) ( c ) may include alternation to exist street furniture and infrastructure provision for the purpose of fulfil the digital infrastructure need of a propose development . " new clause 96 — assessment of need for banking service — ( 1 ) in any case where a propose development in a settlement would have the potential effect of increase the population size of a town and any settlement reasonably consider reliant on the town for provision of public service to at least 5000 person , the local planning authority have a duty to assess the need for a banking hub within the town settlement . ( 2 ) in meet a duty under this section , the local planning authority may consult — ( a ) resident of the settlement and its local area ; ( b ) the relevant developer ; ( c ) the Post Office ; ( d ) link ; ( e ) provider of banking service , and ( f ) any other relevant person . ( 3 ) the local authority must publish a report on its assessment before any grant of permission can be make . " new clause 97 — flood risk mitigation : planning permission — " when consider an application for development consent , a local planning authority have a duty to consider whether any development of the land for which consent be seek could have the effect of increase flood risk , or reduce flood mitigation , to any neighbour land or development . " new clause 98 — flood resilience measure for new home — " ( 1 ) within six month of the passing of this Act , the Secretary of State must make regulation under section 1 of the Building Act 1984 to require that property flood resilience measure be include in any new home . ( 2 ) property flood resilience measure under this section may include — ( a ) raise electrical socket ; ( b ) non - return valve on utility pipe ; ( c ) airbrick ; ( d ) resilient wall plaster ; ( e ) any other measure as the Secretary of State may specify . " new clause 99 — obligation on developer to consider climate and flood resilience — " ( 1 ) no local planning authority may approve an application for development unless it be satisfied that the applicant have consider how the development would contribute to — ( a ) the UK ' s climate resilience , and ( b ) flood resilience in the area surround the development . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State must , every twelve month start with the day twelve month after which this Act be pass , publish a review of the extent to which application approve in the previous twelve month would contribute to the aim set out in subsection ( 1 ) . " new clause 100 — condition to mitigate overheat risk — " in section 70 of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 , after subsection ( 1 ) insert — " ( 1za ) where an application be make to a local planning authority for planning permission for residential development , the authority may impose condition which require the implementation of measure to mitigate the risk of overheat where local climatic datum indicate elevated risk . " " this new clause would allow local planning authority to impose condition on residential development to mitigate the risk of overheat , where local climate datum show elevated risk . new clause 101 — cool hierarchy guidance — " the Secretary of State must , within six month of the passing of this Act , issue guidance for local planning authority which — ( a ) outline a cool hierarchy ; and ( b ) provide guidance on the application of the cool hierarchy in the exercise of a local planning authority ' s planning and development function . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to publish guidance for local planning authority on apply the " cool hierarchy " - a structured approach to reduce overheat risk in building , prioritise passive and sustainable design measure . new clause 102 — overheat risk assessment — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within six month of the passing of this Act , require all application for planning permission for residential development to include an overheating risk assessment . ( 2 ) an overheating risk assessment must be conduct in accordance with — ( a ) the Chartered Institution of Building Services Engineers ' design methodology for the assessment of overheat risk in home , or ( b ) any successor standard designate by the Secretary of State . " this new clause would require all planning application for residential development to include an overheating risk assessment , conduct in line with the late recognise technical standard , such as those of the Chartered Institution of Building Services Engineers ( CIBSE ) . new clause 103 — Incorporation of feature to mitigate overheat risk — " ( 1 ) when prepare any plan or strategy relate to the development of housing under the Planning and Compulsory Purchase Act 2004 , a local planning authority must have regard to the need for residential development to incorporate passive design feature that mitigate the risk of overheat . ( 2 ) passive design feature may include — ( a ) cross - ventilation , ( b ) external shading , ( c ) solar control glazing , and ( d ) thermal mass . " this new clause would require local planning authority , when prepare housing - relate plan or strategy , to have regard to the need for residential development to include passive design feature that reduce the risk of overheat , such as cross - ventilation , external shading , solar control glazing , and thermal mass . new clause 104 — access to datum on overheat risk — " ( 1 ) for the purpose of support the making of local plan , spatial development strategy and planning decision , the Secretary of State must make provision for local planning authority to have access to relevant datum relate to overheat risk . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State must ensure that datum on overheat risk make available to local planning authority be update at interval not exceed five year . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to ensure that local planning authority have access to up - to - date datum on overheat risk , to support the making of local plan , spatial development strategy , and planning decision . new clause 105 — regard to flood risk guidance when consider development on flood plain — " ( 1 ) when prepare a local plan for an area which include a flood plain or consider an application for development on a flood plain , a local planning authority must have regard to — ( a ) the sequential and exception test ; ( b ) the most up to date guidance on flood risk produce by the Government . ( 2 ) for the purpose of this section — " sequential test " mean steer new development to area with the low risk of flooding , take all source of flood risk and climate change into account . where it be not possible to locate development in low - risk area , reasonably available site within medium risk area should be consider , with site within high - risk area only consider where there be no reasonably available site in low and medium risk area ; " exception test " mean that it have be demonstrate that the development would provide wide sustainability benefit to the community that outweigh the flood risk and that the development will be safe for its lifetime take account of the vulnerability of its user , without increase flood risk elsewhere , and , where possible , will reduce flood risk overall . " this new clause would require local planning authority to have regard to the sequential and exception test on manage flood risk when consider application for development on flood plain . new clause 106 — requirement for installation of flood resilience measure — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within six month of the passing of this Act , amend relevant Approved Documents to require the installation of flood resilience measure in property be develop on land which be at risk of flooding . ( 2 ) Flood resilience measure must be specify and instal in accordance with the Construction Industry Research and Information Association ' s code of practice for property flood resilience . " this new clause would require Approved Documents to require the installation , to CIRIA ' s code of practice , of property flood resilience measure in property be develop on land which be at risk of flooding . new clause 108 — planning application for home to address housing need — " ( 1 ) where an application propose to provide housing , the applicant must demonstrate how the propose development will contribute towards reduce the housing need in the local planning area where the development would take place . ( 2 ) a " housing need " under this section — ( a ) have such meaning as a local planning authority for the relevant local planning area may determine , and ( b ) must be communicate clearly to any applicant propose to provide housing in reasonable time before any application be submit . " new clause 109 — Conditions for development on greenfield site — " permission may only be grant for development on a greenfield site where – ( a ) the applicant have prove that there be no appropriate alternative brownfield site which could be use for the development , and ( b ) the applicant have hold a public consultation on the development of the greenfield site . " new clause 110 — Prioritisation of development on brownfield site — " ( 1 ) any local or national plan or strategy which relate to the building or provision of housing must prioritise development on brownfield site . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State must take step to support the development of housing on brownfield site . ( 3 ) step to be take under subsection ( 2 ) may include – ( a ) the disapplication of certain planning requirement or regulation ; ( b ) exemption from certain consultation requirement . " new clause 111 — statement of service charge — " ( 1 ) where it be propose that a development of social housing will impose service charge on resident , the application for such a development must include a statement of service charge which be to be applicable to resident of the new housing . ( 2 ) before grant permission for such development , a local planning authority must consider whether the statement of service charge — ( a ) propose service charge model which be fair , affordable , appropriate , and limit to service directly accessible to the resident ; ( b ) include provision for annual , itemise breakdown of applicable service charge to be provide to resident ; ( c ) provide for service charge to not apply where unit be use as temporary emergency accommodation for individual or family who be homeless or at risk of homelessness . " new clause 112 — requirement to undertake planned affordable housing construction ( no . 2 ) — " where an application propose — ( a ) to develop more than 10 house , and ( b ) that at least 20 % of the house to be develop will be social housing , no amendment to the amount of social housing to be develop may be make if the amendment reduce the amount of social housing below 20 % of the house to be develop if the reason for the amendment be the viability to the applicant . " this new clause would prevent developer from seek to reduce commitment to provide social housing on the ground of viability . new clause 113 — new town to contribute towards social housing target — " in any national or local plan or strategy which set target for the building of new social housing , house build as part of new town may contribute to the meeting of such target . " this new clause would ensure that new town contribute to social housing target . new clause 115 — identification and protection of Green Belt — " ( 1 ) within two year of the passing of this Act , a local planning authority must identify land within its area which it be necessary to protect from development . ( 2 ) it be necessary to protect land from development under subsection ( 1 ) if such protection would — ( a ) limit the expansion of large build - up area ; ( b ) prevent neighbouring town merge into one another ; ( c ) preserve the setting and special character of historic town ; and ( d ) encourage the development of previously - develop land in urban area . ( 3 ) a local planning authority may designate as Green Belt any land identify under subsection ( 1 ) as necessary to protect , include undeveloped land within , and green wedge of land that extend into , build up area . ( 4 ) a local planning authority must prevent any development of land designate as Green Belt under this section for a minimum period of 20 year start on the day on which it be so designated . " this new clause would ensure that a local planning authority can identify land which it deem necessary to protect from development . new clause 116 — heritage tree preservation order — " ( 1 ) a local planning authority may make a heritage tree preservation order in respect of a heritage tree . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State must make provision by regulation for heritage tree preservation order , which must include provision — ( a ) for a heritage tree to have all the protection afford to a tree by a tree preservation order under section 198 of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 ; ( b ) require the owner of a heritage tree , or any other occupier of the land where the tree stand , to advertise appropriately its status as such , and the penalty for harm it , to person approach the tree or planning activity in its vicinity ; ( c ) enable the responsible planning authority , Natural England or the Secretary of State to order the owner of a heritage tree or any other occupier of the land where the tree stand to take specified reasonable step to maintain and protect the tree and , if the owner or occupier do not take such step in reasonable time , to take such step itself and to recover the reasonable cost of do so from the owner or occupi ; ( d ) for the responsible planning authority , Natural England , the Secretary of State or another prescribed responsible body to enter into an agreement with the owner or occupier about the care and preservation of the heritage tree ( a " heritage tree partnership agreement " ) , include about cost ; ( e ) for additional or high penalty for breach of a heritage tree preservation order . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State must make provision for the creation , publication and maintenance of a register of heritage tree in respect of which heritage tree preservation order have be make . ( 4 ) for the purpose of this section , " heritage tree " mean a tree list as such by Natural England on ground of exceptional historic , landscape , cultural or ecologic importance . ( 5 ) Natural England must create , publish and maintain a list of heritage tree in England for the purpose of this section . " this new clause provide for the protection of heritage tree . new clause 117 — development consent for bet shop above street level — " a planning authority must not consider any application for development consent — ( a ) for a new bet shop , or ( b ) to change the use of an exist building to , or to include , a bet shop , unless the relevant premise propose to function as a bet shop be at least one storey above street level . " new clause 118 — development of dwellinghouse above shop — " ( 1 ) this section apply where an application for development consent propose to develop any part of a building which be — ( a ) part of a retail or commercial premise , and ( b ) be at least one story above ground level . ( 2 ) it be permit to — ( a ) develop any such part of the building for the purpose of dwellinghouse ; ( b ) include in development safe access and egress to the new dwellinghouse ; that do not require any such access and egress through the exist retail or commercial premise . " new clause 119 — Internal Drainage Boards to be statutory consultee — " in Schedule 4 of the Town and Country Planning ( Development Management Procedure ) ( England ) Order 2015 , after paragraph ( zf ) insert — zg Development fall within any area cover by an Internal Drainage Board the relevant Internal Drainage Board " " new clause 120 — accessibility standard for new home — " ( 1 ) it be a condition of any grant of planning permission for new home that — all plan home meet Building Regulations M4 ( 2 ) ( accessible and adaptable dwelling ) ; and the relevant number of home , as set out in the follow table , must meet Building Regulation M4 ( 3 ) ( wheelchair user dwelling ) — number of home in development number require to meet Building Regulation M4 ( 3 ) up to and include 9 home a minimum of 1 home exceed 9 home 10 % of all home , round to the near whole number " New clause 121 — residential development on flood plain — " ( 1 ) where a development involve the building of residential accommodation on a flood plain , no living or social space may be locate on ground level . ( 2 ) for the purpose of this section , " live or social space " include bedroom , bathroom , kitchen and other private or communal room or space use for social or recreational purpose or for the preparation or consumption of food , but do not include garage or other room or space use primarily for the purpose of storage . " new clause 122 — availability of small and medium sized property to be consider — " ( 1 ) when consider an application for development which would increase the size or number of bedroom in a residential property which have a maximum of two bedroom , a local planning authority must consider the availability and affordability of small and medium sized property in the authority ' s area . ( 2 ) where the authority consider that the extension of a small or medium sized property would have a detrimental impact on the availability and affordability of such property in the authority ' s area , the authority may not grant permission for the propose development . " new clause 123 — notice — " ( 1 ) where a party be require to publish a notice relate to proposed or prospective development , such a requirement may be satisfy by the relevant party provide the information to be include in such a notice to — ( a ) affect individual directly ; ( b ) a relevant parish or local authority . ( 2 ) where there be no relevant parish authority , the requirement under this section be satisfied if the relevant party notifie the near equivalent authority . ( 3 ) in the Town and Country Planning ( Development Management Procedure ) ( England ) Order 2015 , omit the word from " ; and " in paragraph 13 ( 1 ) ( a ) to the end of paragraph 13 ( 1 ) . " new clause 124 — notice ( no . 2 ) — " ( 1 ) where a party be require to publish notice relate to proposed or prospective development in the vicinity of the area which be to be develop , the relevant party must — ( a ) place such a notice at the main entrance to the property or site or , where there be multiple entrance , at each entrance ; ( b ) serve notice on the owner of every property locate within 250 metre of the external boundary of the relevant site . " new clause 125 — agreement on adoption of new highway — " ( 1 ) the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 62 ( application for planning permission or permission in principle ) , after subsection ( 4A ) insert — " ( 4b ) where an application seek permission for development which include the construction of a new highway , the local planning authority must require that the application include a declaration specify the extent of any highway for which the applicant intend to seek adoption by the local highway authority . ( 4c ) a declaration under subsection ( 4b ) must contain such information and be in such form as the Secretary of State may specify . " ( 3 ) after section 106C insert — " 106D Requirement to enter into highway adoption agreement before occupation ( 1 ) where the condition in subsection ( 2 ) be satisfied , an agreement must be make under section 38 ( 1 ) of the Highways Act 1980 ( power of highway authority to adopt by agreement ) prior to the occupation of land or building result from development . ( 2 ) the condition be — ( a ) that a declaration have be make under section 62 ( 4b ) of this Act which specify that all or part of the highway be intend for adoption ; and ( b ) that the land or building to be occupy front one or more highway section intend for adoption . ( 3 ) any agreement must include all highway section intend for adoption that front the land or building to be occupy . ( 4 ) for the purpose of this section , " front " have the meaning give for " front " in section 203 of the Highways Act 1980 . " " this new clause would require developer to declare , when seek planning permission , that they intend for a highway authority to adopt the road they construct as part of their development , and enter into an agreement with the highway authority before occupy any building next to the relevant road . amendment 87 , in clause 2 , page 3 , line 33 , leave out subsection ( 3 ) . this amendment retain the requirement for the Secretary of State to lay before Parliament a statement set out their response to a resolution of either House of Parliament or the recommendation of a committee of either House relate to a propose national planning policy statement . amendment 128 , page 4 , line 9 , leave out paragraph ( a ) . this amendment would require the Secretary of State to lay before Parliament a response to a resolution make by either House or recommendation make by a committee of either House in relation to amendment to national policy statement . the requirement to do so be otherwise remove by 2 ( a ) . amendment 145 , in clause 25 , page 34 , line 34 , after " electricity supplier " insert " and generator " . this amendment would extend the financial benefit scheme for people live near network transmission infrastructure to those live near new energy generation infrastructure . amendment 146 , page 34 , line 38 , after " plant " insert " , energy generation , " . this amendment be relate to Amendment 145 . amendment 147 , page 35 , line 2 , after " system " insert " or be intend to generate electricity . " this amendment be relate to Amendment 145 . government amendment 93 . amendment 3 , page 53 , line 22 , leave out clause 40 . this amendment aim to conserve the list building conservation area and schedule ancient monument consent requirement that would otherwise be disapplie for transport project here . government amendment 94 to 98 . amendment 122 , in clause 46 , page 58 , line 10 , leave out " ( 5 ) " and insert " ( 6 ) " . this amendment be consequential to Amendment 123 . amendment 123 , page 58 , line 38 , at end insert — " ( 5A ) after subsection ( 5 ) , insert — ' ( 6 ) reference in this Part to public charge point be to be take as include cross - pavement charging solution . ' " this amendment will extend the easement be provide to public charge point of installation without the need for a section 50 street work licence to approve cross - pavement charging solution . each site remain subject to local Highways Authority approval , enable control over liability , maintenance and parking arrangement . amendment 124 , page 59 , line 9 , at end insert — " ' cross - pavement charging solution ' mean a local highway authority approve device , solution or apparatus to safely convey electricity from premise across or under a footway to a vehicle that be capable of be propel by electrical power derive from a storage battery ( or for discharge electricity store in such a vehicle ) ; " . this amendment be consequential to Amendment 123 . Amendment 125 , page 59 , line 23 , at end insert — " cross – pavement charging solution section 105 ( 1 ) ; " . this amendment be consequential to Amendment 124 . amendment 127 , page 60 , line 5 , at end insert — " reference to public charge point be to be take as include cross - pavement charging solution . " this amendment be consequential to Amendment 125 . amendment 141 , page 60 , line 5 , at end insert — " ( 10 ) the Automated and Electric Vehicles Act 2018 be amend as set out in subsection ( 11 ) and ( 12 ) . ( 11 ) in section 10 ( public charging or refuelling point : access , standard and connection ) — ( a ) in subsection ( 1 ) , after paragraph ( b ) insert — ' ( ba ) the accessibility of public charging or refuelling point ; ' ; ( b ) after subsection ( 3 ) insert — ' ( 3A ) Regulations under subsection ( 1 ) ( ba ) may , for example , require the operator of a public charging or refuelling point to ensure that the point comply with minimum specification for placement of a charge point display , bay size , and the height and weight of the charge cable . ' ( 12 ) in section 14 ( transmission of datum relate to charge point ) , in subsection ( 2 ) after ' energy consumption ' insert ' , accessibility ' . " amendment 139 , in clause 47 , page 60 , line 12 , leave out " ( 2 ) " and insert " ( 1A ) " . this amendment be consequential to Amendment 140 . amendment 140 , page 60 , line 12 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) after subsection ( 1ZZA ) insert — ' ( 1zzb ) reference in subsection ( 1 ) to function of a local planning authority include recovery of cost to authority result from enforcement of any breach of planning permission . ' " this amendment allow local planning authority to levy a fee or charge to recover any cost to they associate with enforce planning rule . it be link to Amendment 139 . amendment 133 , page 60 , line 25 , at end insert — " ( ba ) the requirement for proportionality in the level of the fee or charge , base on the nature and size of the development to which the fee or charge will apply ; " . this amendment would require authority to consider the proportionality of the level of any fee or charge they set , base on the nature and size of the work to which the fee or charge will apply . amendment 126 , page 60 , line 35 , at end insert — " ' cross - pavement charging solution ' mean a local highway authority approve device , solution or apparatus to safely convey electricity from premise across or under a footway to a vehicle that be capable of be propel by electrical power derive from a storage battery ( or for discharge electricity store in such a vehicle ) ; " . this amendment be consequential to Amendment 123 . amendment 129 , page 61 , line 3 , after " impose " insert " , and must be such an amount as the authority , Mayor or specify person consider to be a proportionate contribution towards the carrying out of their function under Part 2 of the Planning and Compulsory Purchase Act 2004 . " this amendment , which be link with Amendment 130 , would expand the planning fee ringfence to allow local planning authority to spend revenue from planning fee on local plan - make function under Part 2 of the Planning and Compulsory Purchase Act 2004 . amendment 130 , page 61 , line 15 , at end insert — " ( ba ) function under Part 2 of the Planning and Compulsory Purchase Act 2004 . " see the explanatory statement for Amendment 129 . amendment 1 , page 67 , line 1 , leave out clause 50 . this amendment would ensure that plan committee retain their exist power . amendment 74 , in clause 51 , page 72 , line 27 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) a spatial development strategy must prioritise for new development previously - develop land . " this amendment would require that spatial development strategy prioritise development on brownfield land over other location . amendment 15 , page 72 , line 29 , at end insert — " ( 2A ) a spatial development strategy must have regard to the need to provide 150 , 000 new social home nationally a year . " amendment 21 , page 72 , line 38 , at end insert — " ( 4A ) for the purpose of subsection ( 4 ) , ' infrastructure and public service ' must include — ( a ) primary and secondary healthcare provision , include mental health provision ; ( b ) social care provision ; ( c ) education , skill and training provision ; ( d ) infrastructure for active travel and public transport ; ( e ) sufficient road capacity ; ( f ) access to such commercial amenity , include shop , as the strategic planning authority deem necessary to support resident of the strategy area ; ( g ) recreational and leisure facility ; and ( h ) publicly accessible green space . ( 4b ) a spatial development strategy must include target for the provision of strategically important infrastructure and public service which be — ( a ) consider to be appropriate by the relevant planning authority and delivery body ; ( b ) periodically amend to account for change in population size or dynamic within the strategy area ; ( c ) annually report against with regard to the strategic planning authority ' s performance . " this amendment would clarify the meaning of strategically important infrastructure and public service , require target for such provision to be set , and for performance against such target to be annually report . Amendment 77 , page 72 , line 39 , after " describe " insert " ( subject to the condition in subsection ( 5A ) ) " . amendment 148 , page 73 , line 1 , leave out paragraph ( a ) and insert — " ( a ) an amount or distribution of housing the provision of which either — ( i ) be consider by the strategic planning authority to be of strategic importance to the strategy area , or ( ii ) meet housing need within , or relate to , the strategy area . " this amendment would enable strategic planning board authority to choose whether housing allocation base on local need or strategic importance . amendment 71 , page 73 , line 7 , at end insert — " ( c ) a specific density of housing development which ensure effective use of land and which the strategic planning authority consider to be of strategic importance to the strategy area . " this amendment require strategic planning authority to include a specific housing density in their plan which ensure land be use effectively where it be consider strategically important . amendment 149 , page 73 , line 7 , at end insert — " ( c ) the timetable for , and annual target relate to the delivery of , housing specify or describe under this subsection . ( 5A ) in subsection ( 5 ) ' housing need ' have such meaning as a strategic planning authority may determine in consultation with local planning authority within the strategy area . " this amendment be consequential to Amendment 148 . it require a strategic planning board to set target for the delivery of any housing specify under this section , and allow a strategic planning board to define housing need in consultation with relevant local authority . amendment 78 , page 73 , line 7 , at end insert — " ( 5A ) where a spatial development strategy specifie or describe an amount or distribution of housing , the strategy must not — ( a ) increase the number of home to be develop in any part of the strategy area by more than 20 % , or ( b ) reduce the require number of home to be develop by more than 20 % in any part of a strategy area which be an urban area , when compare to the previous spatial development strategy or the amount of housing currently provide in the relevant area . ( 5b ) in subsection ( 5A ) ' urban area ' have such meaning as the Secretary of State may by regulation specify . " this amendment would place limit on change to housing target in a spatial development strategy . amendment 134 , page 73 , line 7 , at end insert — " ( 5a ) for the purpose of subsection ( 5 ) , any amount or distribution of housing or affordable housing include Gypsy and Traveller site provide privately , by local authority , or by other register social landlord . " this amendment would include Gypsy and Traveller site in the strategically important housing identify in spatial development strategy . amendment 16 , page 73 , line 10 , at end insert — " ( 6a ) where a strategy area include a chalk stream , the spatial development strategy must include policy on permissible activity within the area of the stream for the purpose of prevent harm or damage to the stream or its surround area . " this amendment would ensure spatial development strategy include policy to protect chalk stream . amendment 70 , page 73 , line 10 , at end insert — " ( 6a ) a spatial development strategy must — ( a ) list any chalk stream identify in the strategy area ; ( b ) identify the measure to be take to protect any identify chalk stream from pollution , abstraction , encroachment and other form of environmental damage ; and ( c ) impose responsibility on strategic planning authority in relation to the protection and enhancement of chalk stream habitat . " this amendment would require a special development strategy to list chalk stream in the strategy area , outline measure to protect they from environmental harm , and impose responsibility on strategic planning authority to protect and enhance chalk stream environment . amendment 75 , page 73 , line 10 , at end insert — " ( 6a ) a strategic planning board have a duty to ensure that any development specify or describe under subsection ( 4 ) or ( 5 ) do not take place on green belt land unless there be no practicable option for development in exist urban area , include by — ( a ) increase the density of exist development , and ( b ) regenerate an exist development , in an urban area . " this amendment would ensure that a strategic planning board must only propose development on green belt land where development in urban area be not possible . amendment 76 , page 73 , line 10 , at end insert — " ( 6a ) where a spatial development strategy propose the development or use of agricultural land , the strategy must consider — ( a ) the grade of such agricultural land ; ( b ) the cumulative impact of project develop or use such agricultural land . " amendment 17 , page 73 , line 33 , at end insert — " ( 11a ) a spatial development strategy must — ( a ) take account of Local Wildlife Sites in or relate to the strategy area , and ( b ) avoid development or land use change which would adversely affect or hinder the protection or recovery of nature in a Local Wildlife Site . " this amendment would ensure that spatial development strategy take account of Local Wildlife Sites . amendment 91 , page 73 , line 33 , at end insert — " ( 11a ) a spatial development strategy must include policy relate to the provision and protection of land for community gardening and allotment " this amendment would require planning authority to include their policy in relation to the provision of allotment and community garden land in their spatial development strategy . amendment 67 , page 74 , line 3 , leave out from " mean " to end of line 6 and insert " housing which be to be let as social rent housing . ( 15 ) for the purpose of this section , ' social rent housing ' have the meaning give by paragraph 7 of the Direction on the Rent Standard 2019 and paragraph 4 and 8 of the direction on the Rent Standard 2023 . " this amendment would define affordable housing , for the purpose of spatial development strategy , as social rent housing , as define in the Directions on Rent Standards . amendment 23 , page 74 , line 5 , after " 2008 , " insert — " ( aa ) housing provide by an almshouse charity , " . Amendment 81 , page 76 , line 29 , leave out from " must " to end of line 38 and insert " consult — ( a ) resident of the relevant area ; ( b ) business locate in the relevant area ; and ( c ) representative of those that the authority consider may have an interest in any relevant area . " this amendment would change the exist requirement in the Bill for a strategic planning authority to notify specified party to a requirement to consult local resident , business , and representative organisation . amendment 18 , page 77 , leave out line 33 and insert — " ( 5 ) a strategic planning authority must prepare and consult on a statement of community involvement which provide for person affect by the strategy to have a right to be hear at an examination . " this amendment would require strategic planning authority to consider notify disabled people about the publication of a draft spatial development strategy . amendment 72 , page 77 , leave out line 33 and insert — " ( 5 ) any person who make representation seek to amend a draft spatial development strategy must , if they so request , be give the opportunity to appear before and be hear by the person conduct out the examination . " this amendment require that anyone who submit representation to amend a draft spatial development strategy have a right to appear in person and be hear during the examination of the strategy . amendment 142 , page 81 , line 4 , at end insert — " ( 4A ) no review of a spatial development strategy may be undertake within five year of the publication of the relevant strategic planning authority ' s first spatial development strategy follow the passing of the Planning and Infrastructure Act 2025 , except where such a review be consent to by the Secretary of State . " this amendment would mean that an authority ' s first spatial development strategy may not be review for the first five year except with the agreement of the Secretary of State . amendment 143 , page 81 , line 26 , after " strategy " insert " , but this may not , within a period of five year follow the publication of the relevant strategic planning authority ' s first spatial development strategy follow the passing of the Planning and Infrastructure Act 2025 , take the form of a full review of the strategy and the scope of any alteration must be agree with the Secretary of State . " this amendment would mean that an authority may not conduct a full review of its first spatial development strategy in the course of prepare alteration in the first five year . amendment 144 , page 82 , line 5 , at end insert — " ( 2A ) subsection ( 2 ) do not apply within the first five year of the publication of the relevant strategic planning authority ' s first spatial development strategy follow the passing of the Planning and Infrastructure Act 2025 , except with the consent of the Secretary of State . " this amendment would mean that an authority may not replace its first spatial development strategy within five year . amendment 24 , page 89 , line 28 , leave out clause 52 . this amendment , along with Amendments 25 to 63 , would leave out Part 3 of the Bill . amendment 6 , in clause 52 , page 89 , line 35 , after " to " insert " significantly " . Amendment 82 , page 90 , line 4 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) an environmental delivery plan may be prepare by a local planning authority , or incorporate into a local plan or supplementary planning document . ( 1b ) where an environmental delivery plan be prepare by a local planning authority , reference in section 48 to 60 to Natural England should be read as refer to the relevant local planning authority . " Amendment 25 , page 90 , line 14 , leave out clause 53 . this amendment be link to Amendment 24 . amendment 26 , page 91 , line 12 , leave out clause 54 . this amendment be link to Amendment 24 . amendment 7 , in clause 54 , page 91 , line 27 , leave out " an " and insert " a significant " . this amendment would require that an improvement make to the conservation status of an identify environmental feature within environmental delivery plan should be significant . amendment 150 , page 91 , line 28 , at end insert — " ( 3A ) an EDP must — ( a ) require developer to demonstrate that they have seek to avoid and minimize any negative effect on the identify environmental feature , and ( b ) only permit adverse effect on the identify environmental feature where they can not be avoid and where the adverse effect will be compensate for . " this amendment would ensure the mitigation hierarchy apply to development cover by edp . amendment 137 , page 91 , line 30 , after " appropriate " insert " and if there be imperative reason of override public interest " . amendment 83 , page 91 , line 33 , at end insert — " ( 4A ) subsection ( 4 ) do not apply where an identify environmental feature be a protect feature of a protect site and be — ( a ) a chalk stream ; ( b ) a blanket bog . " Amendment 138 , page 91 , line 33 , at end insert — " ( 4A ) where an identify environmental feature be a protect specie , the EDP should — ( a ) set out conservation measure that address the environmental impact of development on that feature within the relevant Local Nature Recovery Strategy area , and ( b ) where Natural England consider it appropriate and there be imperative reason of override public interest , seek to improve the conservation status of the same feature elsewhere . " Amendment 27 , page 92 , line 10 , leave out clause 55 . this amendment be link to Amendment 24 . amendment 28 , page 92 , line 19 , leave out clause 56 . this amendment be link to Amendment 24 . government amendment 99 . amendment 69 , in clause 56 , page 93 , line 8 , at end insert — " ( 10 ) an EDP must include a schedule set out the timetable for the implementation of each conservation measure and for the reporting of result . ( 11 ) a schedule include under subsection ( 10 ) must ensure that , where the development to which the EDP apply be in Natural England ' s opinion likely to cause significant environmental damage , the corresponding conservation measure result in an improvement in the conservation status of the identify feature prior to the damage be cause . ( 12 ) in prepare a schedule under subsection ( 10 ) Natural England must have regard to the principle that enhancement should be deliver in advance of harm . " this amendment would require Environmental Delivery plan to set out a timetable for , and thereafter report on , conservation measure , and require improvement of the conservation status of specified feature before development take place in area where Natural England consider development could cause significant environmental damage . amendment 29 , page 93 , line 10 , leave out clause 57 . this amendment be link to Amendment 24 . government amendment 100 . amendment 136 , in clause 57 , page 93 , line 19 , at end insert — " ( 2A ) when prepare an EDP , Natural England must — ( a ) demonstrate that there be reliable scientific evidence to suggest that implement conservation measure as part of an EDP could contribute to a significant environmental improvement in the conservation status of the relevant environmental feature at an ecologically appropriate scale ; ( b ) be able to establish sufficient baseline datum on relevant protect feature to enable an accurate assessment of the environmental impact of development on the identify environmental feature ; and ( c ) take account of the environmental principle set out in section 17 of the Environment Act 2021 and publish a statement explain how it have do so . " this amendment would require Natural England to provide scientific evidence on the expected effectiveness of the propose conservation measure when prepare an EDP . government amendment 101 and 102 . amendment 30 , page 93 , line 32 , leave out clause 58 . this amendment be link to Amendment 24 . government amendment 103 . amendment 84 , in clause 58 , page 94 , line 14 , at end insert — " ( j ) any impact landowner , ( k ) sea fishing business , where the EDP cover an area which be adjacent to their fishing ground , ( l ) the owner of fishing right , where the EDP include or otherwise affect river or lake use for fishing . " government amendment 104 and 105 . Amendment 31 , page 94 , line 31 , leave out clause 59 . this amendment be link to Amendment 24 . amendment 8 , in clause 59 , page 95 , line 2 , leave out " be likely to " and insert " will " . this amendment seek to strengthen the overall improvement test . amendment 9 , page 95 , line 2 , after " sufficient to " insert " significantly " . this amendment seek to strengthen the overall improvement test . Amendment 32 , page 95 , line 13 , leave out clause 60 . this amendment be link to Amendment 24 . amendment 33 , page 95 , line 21 , leave out clause 61 . this amendment be link to Amendment 24 . Amendment 34 , page 96 , line 27 , leave out clause 62 . this amendment be link to Amendment 24 . amendment 5 , in clause 62 , page 96 , line 33 , at end insert — " ( 2A ) an EDP may not be amend if the amendment would reduce the amount , extent or impact of conservation measure that be to be take to protect the identify environmental feature . " this amendment would mean that the Secretary of State could not amend an environmental delivery plan so as to reduce the measure to be take to mitigate the negative environmental impact of a development . amendment 35 , page 97 , line 20 , leave out clause 63 . this amendment be link to Amendment 24 . amendment 10 , in clause 63 , page 98 , line 8 , after " to " insert " significantly " . amendment 36 , page 98 , line 21 , leave out clause 64 . this amendment be link to Amendment 24 . government amendment 106 . amendment 37 , page 99 , line 33 , leave out clause 65 . this amendment be link to Amendment 24 . government amendment 107 and 108 . amendment 38 , page 100 , line 33 , leave out clause 66 . this amendment be link to Amendment 24 . amendment 90 , in clause 66 , page 100 , line 37 , leave out from " that " to end of line 40 and insert ' ' the conservation status of environmental feature be maintain and improve whilst support development to proceed where ecologically appropriate . " this amendment would state that the purpose of the nature restoration levy be to enable development while maintain and improve environmental feature . amendment 39 , page 101 , line 1 , leave out clause 67 . this amendment be link to Amendment 24 . amendment 40 , page 101 , line 29 , leave out clause 68 . this amendment be link to Amendment 24 . amendment 41 , page 102 , line 36 , leave out clause 69 . this amendment be link to Amendment 24 . amendment 42 , page 103 , line 9 , leave out clause 70 . this amendment be link to Amendment 24 . amendment 4 , in clause 70 , page 103 , line 13 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) the regulation must require Natural England to ensure that use of money receive by virtue of the nature restoration levy be not unreasonably delay . " the amendment would ensure that funding would be available for upfront nature restoration and mitigation on development site . amendment 11 , page 104 , line 5 , leave out " separately " and insert " to the body establish under section [ independent oversight of administration of nature restoration levy ] " . this amendment be consequential on NC8 . amendment 12 , page 104 , line 9 , after " money " insert " , and to report to the body establish under section [ independent oversight of administration of nature restoration levy ] accordingly " . this amendment be consequential on NC8 . this amendment would require Natural England to report to an independent oversight body on the use make of nature restoration levy money . amendment 13 , page 104 , line 10 , after " report " insert " to the body establish under section [ independent oversight of administration of nature restoration levy ] " . this amendment be consequential on NC8 . this amendment would require Natural England to report to an independent oversight body on expect charge collection and use of nature restoration levy money . amendment 14 , page 104 , line 16 , after " paragraph ) " insert " , and to report to the body establish under section [ independent oversight of administration of nature restoration levy ] accordingly " . this amendment be consequential on NC8 . this amendment would require Natural England to report to an independent oversight body on money pass to another public authority . Amendment 43 , page 104 , line 17 , leave out clause 71 . this amendment be link to Amendment 24 . amendment 2 , in clause 71 , page 104 , line 27 , leave out from " levy " to end of line 30 and insert — " ( 4A ) provision under subsection ( 4 ) must include a condition that the nature restoration levy must be pay before development begin . " this amendment would require that the levy be pay up front , so that nature restoration can begin immediately . amendment 44 , page 105 , line 8 , leave out clause 72 . this amendment be link to Amendment 24 . amendment 45 , page 106 , line 32 , leave out clause 73 . this amendment be link to Amendment 24 . amendment 46 , page 107 , line 18 , leave out clause 74 . this amendment be link to Amendment 24 . amendment 47 , page 107 , line 24 , leave out clause 75 . this amendment be link to Amendment 24 . amendment 48 , page 107 , line 32 , leave out clause 76 . this amendment be link to Amendment 24 . amendment 49 , page 108 , line 19 , leave out clause 77 . this amendment be link to Amendment 24 . Amendment 50 , page 109 , line 27 , leave out clause 78 . this amendment be link to Amendment 24 . amendment 51 , page 110 , line 38 , leave out clause 79 . this amendment be link to Amendment 24 . amendment 52 , page 111 , line 9 , leave out clause 80 . this amendment be link to Amendment 24 . amendment 53 , page 111 , line 25 , leave out clause 81 . this amendment be link to Amendment 24 . amendment 54 , page 112 , line 33 , leave out clause 82 . this amendment be link to Amendment 24 . Amendment 55 , page 113 , line 29 , leave out clause 83 . this amendment be link to Amendment 24 . amendment 56 , page 114 , line 3 , leave out clause 84 . this amendment be link to Amendment 24 . amendment 57 , page 114 , line 33 , leave out clause 85 . this amendment be link to Amendment 24 . amendment 58 , page 115 , line 10 , leave out clause 86 . this amendment be link to Amendment 24 . amendment 59 , page 116 , line 19 , leave out clause 87 . this amendment be link to Amendment 24 . amendment 60 , page 117 , line 1 , leave out clause 88 . this amendment be link to Amendment 24 . amendment 61 , page 117 , line 10 , leave out clause 89 . this amendment be link to Amendment 24 . amendment 62 , page 117 , line 27 , leave out clause 90 . this amendment be link to Amendment 24 . amendment 63 , page 118 , line 29 , leave out clause 91 . this amendment be link to Amendment 24 . government amendment 115 to 119 and 109 to 111 . amendment 65 , page 163 , line 12 , leave out schedule 5 . this amendment be consequential to Amendment 54 . amendment 66 , page 170 , line 3 , leave out schedule 6 . this amendment be consequential to Amendment 60 . amendment 20 , in schedule 6 , page 174 , line 37 , leave out paragraph 41 . amendment 131 , in schedule 6 , page 175 , line 1 , leave out subparagraph 41 ( 2 ) . this amendment remove provision that amend the reason for the killing or taking of badger . amendment 132 , in schedule 6 , page 175 , line 16 , leave out subparagraph 41 ( 4 ) . this amendment remove provision that amend the reason for the killing or taking of badger . government amendment 112 to 114 , 120 and 121 . Amendment 64 , in clause 109 , page 150 , line 38 , leave out subsection ( 3 ) . this amendment be consequential to Amendments 24 to 63 . it be a real pleasure to bring this landmark Bill back to the House on Report . let I begin by thank hon . member on both side of the Chamber for their engagement with the Bill over recent month . in particular , I thank the hon . member for Hamble Valley ( Paul Holmes ) , for Ruislip , Northwood and Pinner ( David Simmonds ) , for Broxbourne ( Lewis Cocking ) , for Taunton and Wellington ( Gideon Amos ) , for Didcot and Wantage ( Olly Glover ) and for North Herefordshire ( Ellie Chowns ) , as well as hon . friend on the Government Benches , for their consider line - by - line scrutiny of the Bill in Committee . over the past 11 month , the Government have act decisively to restore economic stability , increase investment and reform our economy to drive up productivity , prosperity and living standard in every part of the country . to build the home and critical infrastructure we need , we have already deliver the most significant reform to our planning system in a generation , include the publication of a revise , pro - growth national planning policy framework , which the Office for Budget Responsibility conclude will permanently increase the level of our real gdp by 0 . 02 % by 2029 - 30 — the equivalent of £ 6 . 8 billion in today ' s price . we be make further progress on our plan - for - change mission of rebuild Britain and kickstarte economic growth this week by progress this critical legislation . the Planning and Infrastructure Bill will speed up and streamline the delivery of new home and critical infrastructure , help we to achieve our ambitious milestone of build 1 . 5 million safe and decent home in England , and make planning decision on at least 150 major economic infrastructure project in this Parliament , as well as support our clean power 2030 target by ensure that essential clean energy project be build as quickly as possible . I declare an interest as a member of the Ulster Farmers Union , the mother body of which be the National Farmers Union . other will comment on this , but the UFU have tell I that it be concerned about lose farmland for housing . should it not be the policy of Government to ensure that brownfield site be use first ? if they be use first , farmer will have the opportunity to retain their land to produce food , which be important . do the Minister feel there must be balance in what be put forward tonight to ensure that that happen ? I thank the hon . gentleman for that intervention — he know I have great affection for he . he tempt I into a debate that do not directly relate to the Bill , but I can tell he the following : the Government ' s position be brownfield - first when it come to development . he know that we strengthen the national planning policy framework to give great weight to brownfield release . we have consult on a brownfield passport to ensure that bring forward previously develop land become the default and that people get a yes in those circumstance . when it come to agricultural land , very strong protection already exist . they remain in force in term of what be in the NPPF . will the Minister give way ? I will give way briefly , and then I will make some progress . when the Minister say that agricultural protection be very strong , that simply be not true , be it ? in the new NPPF that the Government bring in after be elect , they remove the important clause that explicitly protect land use in food production . I slightly take issue with the hon . member ' s interpretation . we make targeted change , but the strong protection that apply to agricultural land exist . he know that , and I have speak to he before about the fact that , in particular part of the country , we see high number of application for thing like solar farm . but as I have say to he before , even under the most optimistic scenario , less than 1 % of agricultural land will be bring forward for solar farm application , and those protection remain in place , so we be confident that that be robust . will the Minister give way ? I will take this one last intervention because these be not matter relate to the Bill , and then I want to move on . this relate directly to the Bill . not only do it relate directly to the Bill , but there be dozen of amendment all relate to this one single issue . the fact of the matter be that , under the proposal as they stand , we will lose vast swathe of prime agricultural land because planning consent will effectively be drive straight through . that be simply not satisfactory . I do not know whether the right hon . Gentleman hear the point I just make . even under the most optimistic scenario , less than 1 % of agricultural land will be turn over to solar farm use . some of the hyperbole that have be associate with the issue over recent month be unwarranted . I say directly to he , because I want to move on and speak to the Bill , that these be matter that relate to the national planning policy framework , rather than to any proposal in this piece of legislation . I be more than happy to sit down with he and talk about they outside of the context of this debate , but I do want to make some progress . we make a number of improvement to the Bill in Committee to ensure that it operate as intend and that its expected benefit be fully realise . in many case , the change be a direct result of constructive feedback from key stakeholder and parliamentarian . the result be the strong and more impactful Bill before we . I will briefly outline the more substantive change make to the Bill in Committee , include in relation to the nationally significant infrastructure project , statutory consultee funding and the nature restoration fund , before turn to further amendment that the Government table last week . I thank the Minister for the very open way in which he have approach this process so far . he be absolutely right that the Government make many positive change and concession in Committee , but he will be aware that many stakeholder remain concerned about the Bill ' s impact on nature . as the Bill progress , be he minded to listen to representation from people who be absolutely behind he on his growth mission but who want to ensure that there be no further loss of natural habitat in one of the most nature - deplete nation on the planet ? my hon . friend and I speak just day ago about that issue . we be of course more than happy to continue engage with and listen to the view propose by hon . member from across the House and by organisation . if he will allow I to make a little progress , I will deal specifically with the nature restoration fund in fairly short order . let I begin with the improvement make to the consenting process for critical infrastructure . as set out in my write ministerial statement of 23 April , the Government have remove the overly prescriptive and burdensome statutory consultation requirement for major economic infrastructure project that be unique to the NSIP system establish by the Planning Act 2008 . over this Parliament , that change could result in a cost - saving of over £ 1 billion across the project pipeline . by speed up delivery , increase capacity and reduce constraint cost , it will also contribute to low household bill . we have decide to proceed with the change because considerable evidence attest to the fact that the statutory requirement in place be drive perverse outcome . rather than provide a mean by which engagement drive well outcome , statutory pre - application procedure have become a tick - box exercise that encourage risk - aversion and gold - plating . the result be consultation fatigue and confusion for community ; long , more technical and less accessible documentation ; and an arrangement that actively disincentivise improvement to application , even if they be in a local community ' s interest , because applicant worry that a further repeat consultation will be require . in remove the statutory requirement to consult as part of the pre - application stage for NSIP application , and bring requirement more closely in line with other planning regime , the Government be not downgrade the importance of high - quality pre - submission consultation and engagement . we still want the NSIP regime to function on the basis of a front - load approach in which development proposal be thoroughly scope and refine prior to be submit to the Planning Inspectorate , and we still expect high - quality , early , meaningful and constructive engagement and consultation to take place with those affect as part of that process . give that such engagement and consultation routinely take place and lead to improve proposal in other planning regime without such statutory requirement , and because the development consent order examination procedure reward high - quality application , we be confident that developer will continue to be incentivise to undertake it . to support that change , the Government intend to publish statutory guidance set out strong expectation that developer undertake consultation and engagement prior to submit an application . we will work with stakeholder to design that guidance — a public consultation will be launch in the come month — so that it encourage good practice without recreate the flaw of the current system . we have also make a number of other change relate to the nationally significant infrastructure project regime , include by amend the Bill to ensure that promoter can gain access to land to carry out survey assess its condition and status and inform environmental impact assessment , and to make the process for post - consent change to development consent order more proportionate to the change request . my inbox be full of correspondence from Harlow resident who can not get a home and can not get on the housing ladder . they find that the planning framework mean that it take too long to get house build . the main purpose of the Bill be to speed up that process and build people the home that they need . my hon . friend be right : the Bill do streamline the delivery of new home and critical infrastructure . although the change I have just refer to relate not to home but the regime for nationally significant infrastructure project — big clean energy project , water reservoir and so forth — there be other change in the Bill that do support a more streamlined local planning process . before the Minister move on , will he give way ? I be go to make some progress , because I know a lot of hon . member want to get in and there be lot of point I need to make before I can bring other in . I turn to other important change make to the Bill in Committee . to support our grid connection queue reform , we introduce a small set of amendment to ensure that the relevant clause operate as intend and that they support we to move from a first come , first serve to a first ready , first need , first connect approach . to help address the lack of capacity and resource within statutory consultee , we have introduce a new sustainable funding model for the statutory consultee system . the new surcharge that will be able to be apply to planning application fee will be use to fund body , include statutory consultee , that provide advice and ancillary support that enable good decision making . alongside the localisation of planning fee provide for by clause 47 , the new surcharge will allow we to address capacity and resource issue and support a fast and well quality decision - make process . finally , we have make change to the nature restoration fund . before I detail the various improvement make , let I take this opportunity to remind the House why part 3 of the Bill be so important . put simply , when it come to development and nature , the status quo be not work . it be not work for development because constraint like the requirement for nutrient neutrality in sensitive river catchment be stifle the building of new home and infrastructure . equally importantly , it be not work for nature , because the need to meet environmental obligation on the basis of site by site assessment and intervention all too often do little to drive the recovery and restoration of our protect site and specie . be the Minister not concerned that he have lose the audience among wildlife organisation and trust that say they be offend by minister ' portray nature as a blocker to development rather than an enhancement to life and the economy , and be now ask for part 3 of the Bill to be scrap ? I will come on to address that call , which I know be be make , but in general the Bill aim for , and I have always focus on , a win - win for development and the environment . we have extremely productive engagement with engo in the development of the Bill , and we continue to have fruitful conversation with they , aside from the campaign that I know be be fight out there in the country and in some of the national medium . while critic of this part of the Bill may be content to maintain the suboptimal status quo , in full knowledge of the fact that it be frustrate the building of new home and fail to drive the restoration of nature , this Government be not . to those who believe this Government might buckle and scrap part 3 of the Bill entirely , I simply say , " you have underestimate the resolve of this government and this Minister . " the case for move to a more strategic approach that will allow we to use funding from development to deliver environmental improvement at a scale that will have the great impact in drive the recovery of protect site and specie , be compelling . that be why so many organisation indicate their in - principle support for the purpose and intent of part 3 when the Bill be first introduce . will the Minister give way ? I will make some progress . as Beccy Speight , the chief executive of RSPB , put it at the time : " with bold leadership , collaboration , and smart planning through initiative like the Nature Restoration Fund , we can build a future where nature , climate , people and the economy thrive together " . I welcome the enhanced environmental protection in the nature restoration fund . my constituency of Bournemouth West have some unique heathland habitat , many of which be protect as site of special scientific interest . they hold deep value for the local community , so can the Minister reassure I that these unique habitat will be protect as well under this Bill ? I thank my hon . friend for that intervention . we must make a distinction between irreplaceable habitat , where the model do not remove the strong protection that exist for they , such as ancient woodland in the national planning policy framework , and habitat where Natural England will be allow to take a view as to whether conservation measure that apply to they meet the overall improvement test in the Bill , and any intervention in those circumstance will be drive by what be in the environmental good interest of the relevant feature . there be , therefore , protection in place that address my hon . friend ' s concern . in recent week , there have be a not inconsiderable amount of spurious commentary attempt to convey a false impression of what the nature restoration fund do . on that specific point , will the Minister give way ? if the hon . Lady will let I develop my argument a little , I be more than happy to give way to she in due course . as such , I feel obliged to tackle a number of the most flagrant misconception head on . first , some have claim that the nature restoration fund be drive by a belief that development must come at the expense of the environment and that the Government be create a licence for developer to pay to pollute — a " cash to trash " model , as some have dub it . in reality , the nature restoration fund will do the precise opposite . I have be consistently clear that build new home and critical infrastructure should not — and need not — come at the expense of the environment . it be plainly nonsense to suggest that the nature restoration fund would allow developer simply to pay Government and then wantonly harm nature . instead , it take payment from developer and hand they to Natural England , a public body with regulatory duty to conserve and enhance our natural environment , to develop environmental delivery plan , set out how various conservation measure will not only address the impact of development , but go far to demonstrate how they will improve the conservation status of the environmental feature . the Minister be make a strong case for the legislation , on which he have work very hard . however , do he accept that many concern be raise in Committee , on which we both serve , about Natural England ' s ability to undertake the duty that he be ask it to undertake , and that he be unable to give an answer about the extra funding that may be need for that to happen ? will he elaborate on that ? the shadow Minister ' s memory be different from mine : I do provide those assurance . we have already allocate £ 14 million in the Budget to support the delivery of the nature restoration fund , and through measure set out in the Bill , we will move to a system of full cost recovery so that Natural England have the resource it need to carry out those function . rise — I know lot of Members wish to contribute to the debate but I will make some progress . if I may finish the argument I be try develop about take on those misconception , I will give way to the hon . member for North Herefordshire ( Ellie Chowns ) very shortly . we have be perfectly clear that the new approach be not a means of make unacceptable development acceptable , which be why the Bill give Natural England the ability to request planning condition to ensure that appropriate action be take by developer as part of use an EDP . I thank the Minister warmly for give way . he dismiss " spurious " criticism of part 3 of the Bill , but would he use that phrase to dismiss the very expert criticism of the Office for Environmental Protection ? in complete contrast to the Secretary of the State ' s claim that the Bill do not reduce environmental protection , in its independent expert advice , the OEP say that it do and that the Bill constitute " a regression " in environmental protection ? the simple answer be no , I would not characterise the OEP ' s advice as " spurious " , but I be characterise some of the argument that have be make over recent day and week as such . the OEP be not say that the Bill be a " cash to trash " model , but some people out there in the public discourse be make that claim . rise — I will not give way again . we have to make this argument to take on the critic of the Bill who be intentionally try to malign the objective — on that point , will the Minister give way ? I will not . I have just be very clear that I be not go to give way again as I want to make some progress . rise — the hon . member for North Herefordshire be more than welcome to have another go at intervene in due course . I know that she will be put forward her view later . the Government ' s view be that the Bill be not " regressive " . as I have say , environmental delivery plan will secure improve environmental outcome that go far than simply offset harm as require under current legislation . as the hon . Lady know , because we have extensive debate in Committee , we be give very serious consideration to the OEP ' s technical advice on how the Bill might be strengthen in various area . another claim that have be put forward have be that the Bill strip protection from our protect site and specie , allow for untrammelled development across the country . again , that amount to nothing less than wanton misrepresentation . the very strong protection for important site set out in national planning policy be untouched by the legislation . it be only when an EDP be in place , follow consultation and approval by the Secretary of State , that developer can avail themselves of it to discharge the relevant obligation . in the same way that developer can build only once they have meet exist requirement , development support by the nature restoration fund will only be able to come forward when there be a credible and robust EDP in place that will deliver well environmental outcome . the Chair of the Environmental Audit Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Chesterfield ( Mr Perkins ) , have rightly flag the importance of these plan rely on robust scientific evidence , which be why they will only ever be put in place where they can be show to deliver well environmental outcome . finally , there have be a suggestion by some that the new approach provide for by the Bill would allow for the destruction of irreplaceable habitat or for irrecoverable harm . again , that be patently false . not only do all exist protection for irreplaceable habitat remain in place , but the overall improvement test in clause 59 simply could not be meet if an EDP propose to allow irrecoverable harm . Natural England would not propose such measure , and the Secretary of State could not sign they off if it do . if any Secretary of State sign they off , they would be open to judicial review on the basis of that decision . in short , the nature restoration fund will do exactly as its name suggest : it will restore , not harm nature . it be smart planning reform , design to unlock and accelerate housing and infrastructure delivery , while improve the state of nature across the country . by shift to a strategic approach , leverage economy of scale and reduce the need for costly project - level assessment , it will deliver a win - win for development and the environment . while the Government have no time for spurious and misleading attack on the nature restoration fund , I be acutely conscious of the view express both within and beyond this House from those who be supportive of the purpose and intent of part 3 of the Bill — those who be not call for it to be scrap , but be not yet convince that the safeguard within it be sufficiently robust or that there be the require certainty that it will deliver in practice the potential environmental benefit it offer . I find it remarkable that the Minister repeatedly accuse the over 30 lead environmental group , include the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds , which have describe the Bill as a " cash to trash " model , as make " spurious " remark , give that he quote the chief executive of the RSPB , Beccy Speight , to try to shore up his own argument . however , the quote that he take be from a much early comment make before the debate in Committee . more recently , she have say : " the evidence clearly show nature isn ' t a blocker to growth . the Government have identify the wrong obstacle to the problem it ' s try to overcome " . she go on to say that , with no possibility for improve the Bill through amendment , " the complete removal of Part 3 of the Bill be the only responsible option leave . " it be for the chief executive of the RSPB to justify why she have change her view on the Bill when the Bill have not change . if anything , as I will come on to explain , quite a lot of amendment that the Government make — order . the list of member wish to speak be extensive , so I hope that the Minister will be come to a conclusion shortly . I be not plan to , Madam Deputy Speaker , because I need to set out some important change that the Government have make and the amendment that we be propose . however , on the basis of your stricture , I will not take any further intervention . the Bill have not change ; if anything , it have be strengthen in Committee in way that I will set out . to assuage what be entirely reasonable question in respect of an approach that be novel , we have already make some target improvement to part 3 in Committee , include require environmental delivery plan to demonstrate how conservation measure will be maintain and over what period ; strengthen the overall improvement test by clarify that the Secretary of State must be satisfied that it will be pass by the end date of the environmental delivery plan ; clarify that the negative effect the Secretary of State must consider relate to the maximum amount of development cover by the environmental delivery plan ; and ensure that Natural England have sufficient power of entry , use only when absolutely necessary , to survey or investigate land alongside appropriate constraint , include notice requirement and introduce further protection in respect of Natural England ' s use of compulsory purchase power . those change significantly strengthen the nature restoration fund and , I hope , will be welcome across the House . however , as I be at pain to make clear in Committee , and will more than happily restate once again today , I continue to reflect on the reasonable point make by hon . member and the advice of the Office for Environmental Protection with a view to deliberate on what more might be do to ensure everyone be confident that the outcome for nature provide for by this part of the Bill will be positive . for the purpose of clarity , that include give serious consideration to way in which we might instil further confidence in respect of the rigour of the overall improvement test , provide for great certainty in respect of the delivery of edp , and ensure that there be more clarity about the evidential basis and environmental rationale for strategic network level conservation measure . as we do so , I put on record my thank to all those who have continue to engage constructively with the Government with a view to provide reassurance that the nature restoration fund will operate as intend . as ever , I will listen carefully to the contribution make by hon . member in respect of part 3 of the Bill , and I look forward to a constructive debate on these clause . in Committee , we discuss the need to do more to rapidly increase the coverage of swift brick across the country as an important mean of arrest the long - term decline in breed swift population . in respond to the debate , I intend to cover some of the way forward that the Government intend to take . before I close , I must turn to a number of substantive amendment that the Government propose to the Bill , start with a further change to the NSIP regime . we have already include an ambitious package of reform in the Bill that will deliver a fast and more certain consenting process for critical infrastructure . as part of our mission to speed up the process overall , it be critical that examination be focused and efficient and that examine authority continue to report to the Secretary of State within the regime ' s statutory timeframe . follow feedback from stakeholder and a review of recent examination , we be make an amendment with a view to reinforce good practice in examination already adopt by some examine authority . at the start of the examination process , the examine authority be require to make an initial assessment of the principal issue — an IAPI — for each application , which will detail the key matter specific to an application . although the Planning Act require that an initial assessment of the principal issue be make at the start of the examination , there be no requirement for it to be use for or to influence anything in the subsequent examination process . we believe that that initial assessment stage could be work hard to set the foundation for effective and streamlined examination . that be why we be amend the Bill to ensure that the initial assessment of principal issue be a meaningful step that ensure that more focused examination can occur . through the amendment , examine authority will be require to make procedural decision about how they intend to examine an application in the light of the IAPI . that will support their ability to ensure that examination be focus , with time prioritise on the issue that be most critical to the project , as set out in the IAPI . the change will also give more certainty up front to all those involve in examination , so that they have more clarity about what to expect during the examination process . I turn to an important propose change relate to transport infrastructure . as hon . member will be aware , the Bill contain important reform to the Highways Act 1980 and the Transport and Works Act 1992 that will streamline and improve the efficiency of deliver road infrastructure scheme and ensure that process within the regime in the 1980 Act be fit for purpose and proportionate . deliver a fast and more certain consenting process for transport infrastructure project build connectivity and tackle congestion and overcrowding . follow engagement with the Department for Transport and the Welsh Government , we be make a small number of technical amendment to these reform . the amendment clarify beyond doubt that the responsibility for consent marine licence in Welsh offshore area remain with the Welsh Ministers . they also ensure that part of clause 31 do not apply to instrument make by Welsh Ministers under the Highways Act 1980 . that demonstrate our commitment to devolution and to work with all party constructively to achieve mutually beneficial outcome . finally , we propose two further technical change to the nature restoration fund . the provision in part 3 of the Bill have always allow for the nature restoration fund to operate in English water out to 12 nautical mile . however , give the different regulatory requirement and protect site at sea , we be make amendment to ensure the effective operation of the nature restoration fund in the marine environment — in particular , to enable marine - licensable activity in English water out to 12 nautical mile to be cover by an environment delivery plan to support the development of new harbour and port . in line with the provision for terrestrial edp , any such plan in the marine space will need to take into account the relevant marine plan , marine policy statement and UK marine strategy as appropriate . that will ensure that edp support the Government ' s marine priority . in bring forward the nature restoration fund , it be also necessary to ensure that the provision work effectively to support development deliver through different consenting regime . to achieve that , we be make amendment relate to the Harbours Act 1964 and the Marine and Coastal Access Act 2009 that will ensure that the strategic benefit of environmental delivery plan can help to unlock the delivery of transport project and well support nature recovery in those area . I reiterate that we will continue to consider whether element of the new nature restoration fund model could be strengthen to give great confidence that positive environmental outcome will be achieve . I look forward to continue to engage with stakeholder and parliamentarian on this important issue . I commend the Government amendment to the House . I thank hon . member for their effort to improve the Bill and for the scrutiny and challenge that the Bill have receive so far , and I look forward to listen to the remainder of the debate . I call the shadow Minister . I think I just speak once at the end . you just wish to speak at the end — marvellous . [ interruption . ] actually , I will say a few word . why resist the temptation to say a few thing ? I thank the Minister for his hard work in lead the Planning and Infrastructure Public Bill Committee and all member who serve on that Committee over the past few week . he spend a long time in Committee say that he would reflect on a number of really important point that hon . member across the political divide have make , but he have do no such thing . he say that he have reflect and that he will also reflect after the event of today and tomorrow , but he have make no substantive change to the Bill base on the real and genuine environmental concern of many member across the House . I do not intend to detain the House too long , because I know that I have a wind - up speech , but we be worried about the centralising zeal of this government when it come to planning , as I say on Second Reading . we be worried about the erosion of the power of locally elect , democratic politician to make decision about their local area , serve their local people . I agree with the hon . Gentleman that local community should have much more control over what happen to the housing stock in their area . will he reflect on his party ' s opposition so far to the proposal from the Liberal Democrats for a different category of planning use for both short - term let and second home , give that community such as mine be ravage by so many home be unavailable to local people ? will he change his party ' s position and show that if the Minister be not listen , he be ? the conservative party have always believe in the right of locally elect councillor and plan committee to make decision for the people they serve ; we have say that consistently through the passage of this Bill . the hon . member for Taunton and Wellington ( Gideon Amos ) have table new clause 1 to ensure that planning committee have their current power reinstate under the Government ' s proposal . the Minister be say this afternoon , as he will say tomorrow , that he do not trust any planning committee or any Labour - control council to make decision base on the wish of the constituent in their local area . we think that that be a disgrace . do my hon . friend agree that our constituent expect to have their voice hear on a local planning committee ? provide that council be well - train , the system that we have be work quite well . oh , be it ? the hon . Gentleman say , " be it ? " from a sedentary position , but I absolutely agree with my right hon . friend . very few planning application be refuse by plan committee , and very few planning application do not go through because of the action of plan committee . we on the Opposition Benches happen to trust our locally elect councillor and local leader to make decision for our constituent . it be quite clear that Government member do not trust they , as they be vest more power into the hand of the Minister and the Secretary of State . obviously , the hon . Gentleman be a member of the party that be in power for the last 14 year . the result of that 14 - year period be that we be a nation with a housing crisis and huge number of people in inadequate accommodation or no accommodation at all , and that we be the most nature - deplete nation on earth , so the system clearly be not work . do he have any real sense that there need to be change , or be he say that we can carry on with the system that we have ? I would have more truck with the hon . Gentleman ' s argument if anything that his government propose have the intention that he have outline . just this morning , Savills have indicate , know what the propose legislation will do , that the target of 1 . 5 million home will not be meet and that only 880 , 000 house will be build by the end of this Parliament . when it come to the environmental protection that the Minister have outline , it be quite clear that many of the concern of member across this House should be listen to . the environmental proposal make by the Minister will have a detrimental impact on local area by ship the problem elsewhere . do the hon . Member have any proposal ? the hon . Gentleman ask whether I have any proposal . the last Government build the large number of house in history . there be many thing that we agree need to be do , and there be some area of this Bill that we agree with , but the hon . Gentleman need to realise that take power away from locally elect councillor be a disgrace . the Minister be say to the hon . Gentleman and his councillor that they should not be trust to make decision on behalf of their local community . I be sure he will not be happy with that when he get to his annual general meeting in a few month ' time to be reselecte as a parliamentary candidate . there be other concern about this legislation . as we have say , the Government have consistently say that they want to build 1 . 5 million home , but the independent Office for Budget Responsibility — a body that Labour hold in high regard when it be in opposition — have forecast that the Government will fail to deliver on their manifesto commitment and will fall short of that figure . as I have say , that be echo today by Savills , which estimate that the Government will build just over half the number of house that the Deputy Prime Minister have promise , even after come out of her very testing meeting with the Chancellor . the Government ' s proposal to reduce the number of legal challenge available to opponent of major infrastructure development from three to two — and in some case just one — should alarm anyone who believe in check and balance . legal scrutiny be not an inconvenience ; it be the backbone of our democratic system . infrastructure project often have far - reach environmental , social and economic consequence , and by curtail legal recourse , we be not remove red tape but remove the public ' s right to hold power to account . in the name of speed , the Government be undermine the legal mechanism that protect we from Government overreach . as I have say , the clear implication of the Minister ' s proposal today be that power will be remove from locally elect plan committee . that be a disgrace , and it be in addition to a gerrymandering housing algorithm that punish rural area and reward labour councillor in urban centre for failure . we be tell that the Bill will speed up planning decision , but at what cost ? local planning authority be indeed struggle , under - resource and overburden , but grant they fee - raise power without guarantee central support be like ask a drown man to swim hard . more alarmingly , the shift of decision - make power from elect councillor to unelected planning officer under the guise of efficiency diminish local democracy . it take key decision out of the hand of public representative and place they in the hand of a bureaucracy increasingly dictate by central policy . we be also tell that the Bill will make plan more strategic . that be a noble aim , but let we not forget that the strategic failure of recent year have be due not to too much local input but to too little co - ordination . the requirement for regional spatial strategy be scrap by this Government ' s predecessor . now , the pendulum swing once again , with combined authority be tell to draft regional plan ; however , those same authority be be starve of the funding and staff require to do so . we risk repeat history , only this time with few safety net and a weakened capacity to challenge flawed strategy . I chair the all - party parliamentary group on flooding and flooded community , which be concerned that there be 6 . 3 million property currently at risk of flooding — a figure that be forecast to rise to 8 million by 2050 because of climate change . however , the Bill do not really address climate change or any kind of flood resilience . will the hon . Gentleman join I in urge the Minister to consider the amendment table by I and other that deal with building property in area that be at risk of flooding and lack flood resilience ? of course . we discuss this topic at great length in Committee , and many good amendment be table . however , as I understand it and as I think the hon . Lady agree , have reflect consistently the Minister have not strengthen the environmental protection or the measure to deal with flood risk to housing that will be build in future . in fact , I would argue that those protection have be weaken . I hope the Minister will go away and look at these issue again . turn to environmental protection , we in the conservative party say that they be under threat . the creation of environmental delivery plan sound suitably wishy - washy , but this new centralised model turn bespoke ecological assessment into a bureaucratic chequebook exercise . while developer may cheer the ability to pay into a nature restoration fund instead of take direct responsibility for mitigation , we should ask whether this be really restoration , or whether it be greenwashe . on Natural England , I remind the Minister once again that the Bill Committee hold a huge evidence session . he consistently say that he have confidence in Natural England ' s ability to undertake the responsibility he be seek to impose on it , but time and time again he have outline that he have allocate what I would argue be a mediocre sum of money to Natural England . he be ask that organisation to make decision and improve environmental protection for people across this country , but he still have not outline what funding model will be in place . the chief executive of Natural England herself state , in very generic term , that she be not entirely sure that she or her organisation would be able to undertake those operation go forward . the Minister should listen to the huge concern across this House that Natural England be not the right organisation to undertake those responsibility — rather , it should be local council and local mayor . they should be the one who represent their constituent and speak for local people , and who can make the change they need on environmental protection . the conservative party have table two amendment that I hope — rather fruitlessly , I suspect — the Minister will look kindly on . he do not look favourably on many opposition amendment in Committee ; he say that he have strengthen the Bill , but that be just through labour amendment . however , I hope that he will look seriously at new clause 39 and 43 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Ruislip , Northwood and Pinner ( David Simmonds ) . new clause 39 would prohibit solar power development on high - quality agricultural land . that be a vital safeguard for the future of british farming and national food security . at a time when global food supply chain be increasingly fragile , it be essential that we protect our most productive agricultural land from irreversible development . this clause will ensure that the UK ' s good farmland be preserve for grow food , which be what it be intend for , rather than be cover in solar panel . the clause do not oppose renewable energy ; rather , it call for a smart , more balanced approach that direct solar project to brownfield site , rooftop , and low - grade land , so that we do not undermine our capacity to feed ourselves . do the hon . member recognise that only up to 1 % of agricultural land could actually be dedicate to solar panel ? do he also recognise that a former president of the National Farmers Union have say that solar help farmer to generate income ? the hon . Gentleman say " only up to 1 % " , but give the international situation , this country should be produce its own food , and that land should be protect . he may need to catch up , because I understand that the NFU now want the Bill to go far and completely ban solar panel on high - quality land . I suggest that he speak to the NFU again , and then come back to this House and back new clause 39 . the NFU speak up for our farmer , so we should listen if it be not happy with what be in the Bill . instead of give I a quote from a former NFU employee , the hon . Gentleman should listen to the NFU ' s current leadership , and then maybe change his comment . do the hon . member believe that farmer be able to choose how good to use their land ? of course I believe that farmer know how to make good use of their land , but this Government be take power away from farmer , whether by increase the power to issue compulsory purchase order for land that farmer want to use to produce food , or by reduce the money that they will get from the cpo that the Government be advocate for . farmer see more and more agricultural land be take out of use . I suggest that the hon . Gentleman read the Bill and the measure that the Minister be bring forward , which undermine our farmer and stop they from be able to do the job that they want to do . will the hon . member give way ? I will move on to another clause , because Madam Deputy Speaker probably want I to sit down soon , as might many other member . [ hon . member : " hear , hear ! " ] I know I would get universal acclaim eventually . new clause 43 be also table by my hon . friend the Member for Ruislip , Northwood and Pinner . village across our country need to be protect , and the Bill simply do not do that . it eradicate the relevance of local plan and power of local people to make decision to protect the strategic gap around our village . I hope that the Minister will look favourably on the new clause , which would provide village with protection equivalent to those provide to town under the national planning policy framework . it be a vital measure for protect the character , identity and heritage of England ' s village before they be lose to unchecked sprawl . for too long , plan policy have prioritise urban growth without give equal attention to the unique pressure face by rural community . new clause 43 seek to correct that imbalance by require the Secretary of State to issue or update guidance that grant village equivalent protection to those afford to town under the NPPF in order to safeguard village from be swallow up by neighbouring development , preserve green buffer between settlement , and protect the historic fabric and rural character that define these community . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Castle Point ( Rebecca Harris ) for her work in bring about the amendment , follow a truly baffle plan appeal decision on green belt in her constituency . that decision would result in the merging of two settlement with completely different character and identity , simply because one be class as a village and one be class as a town . many member will have have such problem . the Minister need to go away and look at the protection of village and green belt in the Bill , because it be not deliver that . a number of amendment have be table that Opposition member think would make the Bill well . new clause 82 , table by the hon . member for Bournemouth East ( Tom Hayes ) , relate to play area . many development be not deliver with play area , and those should be bring forward . amendment 69 , table by the hon . member for North East Hertfordshire ( Chris Hinchliff ) , would require environmental delivery plan to set out a timetable for , and to report on , conservation measure , and it would require improvement of the conservation status of specified feature before development take place . we Opposition member believe that there need to be change to planning policy , but the Minister have squander a chance . he have not listen to member who genuinely want to strengthen the Bill by make planning policy fast , while protect our environment and enhance the role of our locally elect councillor . as a result , he have leave we unable to strengthen the Bill by work together . this be a waste opportunity . he will not deliver his housing number . he will take power away from local community and stifle the planning process . we Opposition Members will always stand up for our locally elect councillor . it be a shame that this Government simply have not do that . rise — More than 55 Back Benchers hope to contribute , and colleague know what time this debate have to end . it be unlikely that everybody will get in , so colleague may want to reconsider and submit to speak tomorrow instead of today . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . I be mindful of what you say , Madam Deputy Speaker , and will try to keep my remark short . I rise to speak to the amendment in my name . in this Report stage , I will briefly touch on why the Bill be so vital . it be fair to say that we all , as constituency MPs , have our frustration with the planning system , but ultimately we must remember why this Bill matter . we be in the middle of a housing crisis . a generation of young people be spend more and more of their income on unaffordable private rent , while the dream of home ownership fade even far . we have 1 . 3 million household on local authority waiting list for social housing and more than 165 , 000 child grow up in temporary accommodation . that figure have rise by 15 % in the last year alone . I be the Chair of the Housing , Communities and Local Government Committee , and our first report look at the life of some of the child in temporary accommodation . what we find be truly shameful . family be live in damp , cold and mouse - infest home . baby be not able to crawl or learn to walk because of a lack of floor space . most shockingly , we find that temporary accommodation have be a contribute factor in the death of at least 74 child in the past five year . as a fellow London Member of Parliament , I recognise everything that my hon . friend have describe . be she surprised , as I be , to hear from the shadow Minister that the planning system be fine and should not change ? as I outline in my opening comment , the planning system do not work . it be break , just as we have a broken housing market and a housing crisis . I mention the 74 child who die in the past five year ; 58 be under the age of one . as member of Parliament represent different part of the country , we might disagree with aspect of development in our constituency , and we must not let developer off the hook when they often fail to deliver quality in new housing . my hon . friend be make a powerful speech , and she touch on developer . my new clause 67 focus on developer ’ obligation when they have commit , at the planning application stage , to deliver a certain number of affordable home . under my new clause , they would have to stick to that . they should not be give scope to use issue around viability or profitability to reduce the number of affordable home that they deliver . do she agree that that option should not be open to developer if they want to build home ? I thank my constituency neighbour for that important point . we have to be honest : the market face developer be challenging . their cost have increase , but we see waiting list across our borough increase daily . More and more people face an acute housing shortage . it be therefore important that when developer consult and go to plan committee with their development plan , they stick to what they have commit to . developer must build the infrastructure that our community need , and we must ensure that home be build to the high safety standard . we must be in no doubt that , unacceptably , we have for decade fail to build the home that we need . if we want to give young people home , stop family face the scourge of homelessness , and ensure that every child have the good start in life , we must say yes to build more home . in particular , not enough new social home have be build . that be why I table new clause 50 . I completely agree that not enough social home be be build . do the hon . Lady think we should have a target for social home in the Bill ? I thank the hon . member for that point , and I be come to some of the point on target ; essentially , this subject be why I table new clause 50 , and I be grateful for the support of colleague from all part of the House . social rent , as we know , be the most affordable housing tenure , as the rent be calculate through a national formula . usually , the rent be set at around 50 % of local market rent . that be exactly the kind of housing we need if we want to make progress towards end homelessness during this Parliament . the Minister tell the Select Committee that the Government want to prioritise the building of new social rent home as part of their social housing ambition . my new clause 50 would require the Government to set a national target for the number of social rent home that they want to deliver per year . the target would not be bind on the Government or the sector , but it would demonstrate the scale of the Government ' s ambition . target be important to how our planning system work in England . local and national housing target make sure that our planner , developer and housing association know how many home the Government intend to deliver , and they allow community to plan effectively . the Government have be clear on their overall national housing target , but the Select Committee believe that the Government must set out how they intend to hit that 1 . 5 million target , and we want to ensure that include a target by tenure . in the absence of a specific housing target , the number of new social rent home have plummet from hundred of thousand in the 1970s to consistently below 10 , 000 in the past decade . my hon . friend be make a powerful point , which we have discuss on the Select Committee . do she agree that to reach the target of 90 , 000 social home a year , we must set clear target now ? otherwise , we will not be able to get a grip on the housing crisis when it come to deliver socially rent home . I thank my fellow Committee member for make that point . as the shadow Minister outline , a number of key sector have make claim and be worried about the target that the Government have set . it be an ambitious target , and we want the Government to hit it , but without urgent action , that might be difficult for they to do . in the absence of such a target , far few family be get off the waiting list , out of homelessness and into secure and safe affordable home . as the new Select Committee have not endorse a specific number of social rent home , my new clause do not hold the Government to a target ; rather , we want the Government to consider what be need and , most important , what be possible within the financial constraint and the sector ' s capacity . in recent year , several organisation have call for social rent target at different level . as we have just hear from my hon . friend the Member for Gillingham and Rainham ( Naushabah Khan ) , the most common figure be 90 , 000 social rent home per year , which have be endorse by Shelter , Crisis , the National Housing Federation , the Affordable Housing Commission , and the predecessor of my Committee in the last Parliament . the hon . Member have make some excellent point about the need to set a target for social home . I believe that the destruction of council house stock be one of the most regressive action that the country have ever take , and that we need to replenish that stock as a matter of urgency . however , I fear that 90 , 000 a year be not enough . do she agree that we need to aim for 150 , 000 ? the hon . Member make a really important point . what we be ask the Government to do , in the new clause — and what many other member across the House be ask they to do — be ensure that , within that 1 . 5 million target , there be a clear ambition in relation to how many of those home will be social housing . we need to take a step first before we start increase that target , but I agree that 90 , 000 be a drop in the ocean , give the number of people across the country who be on the social housing waiting list . when he be in office , the former Secretary of State — now Lord Gove — say that he want to see at least 30 , 000 social rent home a year , which he call a " stretching but achievable " target . my new clause would give the Government six month after the passing of the Bill to set their own target . by that time , we expect the Government to have publish detail of a new affordable home programme and a long - term housing strategy . the Minister have tell the Select Committee that the long - term housing strategy will set out how the Government will meet their 1 . 5 million target , and we hope that will include a breakdown of the figure by tenure and a target for social rent housing . my amendment 129 and 130 be technical amendment to the Bill ' s planning fee ringfence . we know that local planning authority be badly under - resource . accord to the Royal Town Planning Institute , one quarter of planner have leave the public sector between 2013 and 2020 . the sector have therefore welcome the Bill ' s plan to ringfence the revenue from planning fee so that local authority must invest those revenue in planning department . however , in evidence to the Committee , plan representative tell we that the current ringfence in the Bill be too restrictive , as it would not allow planning department to spend the money on develop their local plan . the Minister be up to date with local plan , and , as he know , local plan coverage be vital if the Government ' s planning reform be to succeed . the fact be , however , that only a third of local authority have an up - to - date local plan in place . it therefore seem to be a miss opportunity that the ringfence , as currently draft , would not allow local authority to invest in plan - make use revenue from fee . the Government wish to see universal coverage of local plan , so I hope that the Minister might consider make this modest change in the other place to extend the fee ringfence . with those local plan in place , and with the Government ' s wide planning reform bed in , hopefully we will start to see real progress towards build the home we so desperately need . but even then , we must face the reality that plan reform alone will not to be enough to deliver 1 . 5 million home during the current Parliament . the private sector will need to take time to adjust to the new regime , and developer will need year of lead - in time to bring forward those application . the private sector will build home only at the rate at which they sell without need to reduce price , whereas with social housing a family can receive the key to a secure home as soon as it be build . we must remember that the last time England be build 300 , 000 home a year , more than 100 , 000 of they be social housing . the Government have promise to deliver the " big wave of social and affordable housing for a generation " , and that will require the big boost in social housing investment for a generation . in truth , the spending review will make or break the 1 . 5 million target . it be now time for the Government to be bold , and to deliver on their housing ambition . if they do so , they will find council across the country ready to match their ambition . I particularly welcome Southwark Council ' s work , and the work of its outgoing leader , Councillor Kieron Williams , in spearhead the " secure the Future of Council Housing " campaign . in just under a year , Southwark have join 112 other council across England in send the clear message that it be there to get more home deliver , and to fix the broken housing system . I urge the Government to match that goal , back up their stated ambition , and set a social housing target follow the spending review . we must ensure that social rent housing — the most affordable tenure — form a substantial part of the new housing that result from the Bill . rise — order . may I remind member that we be push for time ? after the next Front - Bench speech , I shall be impose an immediate five - minute time limit . I now call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . let I start by thank all the member of the Bill Committee , the Clerks , and the official whose joy at receive our 78 amendment I can only imagine to have be unbounded . the House will be pleased to hear that I will now be focus only on those that we have prioritise for this debate . on Second Reading , the Liberal Democrats and Plaid Cymru be the only party to vote against the Bill . all the other be content to support it ; Labour and Green party member nod it through , while the Conservatives — the official Opposition — abstain . I hope that they will all consider their position more seriously on this occasion , and reconsider support some of the measure in the Bill , but if today the Liberal Democrats be again the only party to vote against the Bill — tomorrow . tomorrow , as the hon . Gentleman have remind I . if , tomorrow , the liberal Democrats be the only party to vote against the Bill because of the harm that it do to the right of community and local people , to fairness and to nature , all three of which be cornerstone of what liberal believe in , we shall bear that standard proudly — and we shall do so again . I have table new clause 65 , which would require housing development application to include provision for green space within 15 minute of new home , support nature and help people to lead happy , healthy life . do my hon . friend agree that the Government have miss an opportunity to require new housing development to be design in a way that would be not only good for nature and the environment , but good for the health and wellbeing of resident ? I agree with my hon . friend , who be a great champion of green space in development . in our contribution , we be show how the protection of nature could be strengthen in the Bill without entire chunk of it be delete . I shall say more about that later . as we hear from the Chair of the Select Committee , the hon . member for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green ( Florence Eshalomi ) , when it come to right for individual , real freedom often depend on decent home that people can afford and where they can bring up their family . when home be genuinely affordable for local people , they will command real community consent and support in the planning process . unless we give a commitment to a massive increase in the number of social and council rent home , we will not be respond to the need of those people , and we will fail to meet head - on the criticism that housing development today be more about profit than about people . my constituency contain less than the national average proportion of social rent housing , at 7 % . do my hon . friend agree that it be shocking that the new Government have be asleep at the wheel , and have lack the ambition to deal with the desperate need for more social rent housing during their first 11 month in power ? I thank my hon . friend for champion the need for social and council rent home , which be exactly what the Liberal Democrats be do . we welcome the £ 2 billion commitment that the Government have make to social housing , and we be listen carefully to what they be say about the spending review , but there be still no target for new social home in either this Bill or any of the relevant Government policy . that absence need to be put right . we agree with many of the amendment that the hon . Gentleman ' s party have put forward . he outline a target for new social home . how would he afford that , and where would the money come from ? the hon . Gentleman lead I on to the next part of my speech . our amendment 15 , which would support the delivery of 150 , 000 new social home per year , would be fund by the taxation proposal set out in our costed manifesto . that would provide an extra £ 6 billion per year , on top of the exist affordable housing programme and section 106 contribution . accord to the Centre for Economics and Business Research , that would be enough to enable we to deliver 150 , 000 social home per year by the end of the Parliament . on the right of community , more people engage with their local council on planning than on almost any other area , but far too often that engagement become a dawn recognition that all the key power and lever on planning have be take away from local area by successive government , leave local community and the elect councillor who represent they increasingly powerless over the development that take place around they . housing number be set by a formula make in Whitehall and dictate not by population , but by demand and supply ratio , even though study show that that have never yet reduce the price of a single house . private builder will quite reasonably act to sustain the price of their product , and add consent in this context be only likely to unleash development in inappropriate area . do my hon . friend agree that we see in the recent Westminster Hall debate that the standard method for calculate the number of home not only do not reduce price , but inevitably ratchet they up and increase they ? my hon . friend be very perceptive and hard - work on this issue . he raise a significant problem with the current standard method , and I pay tribute to he . it be not just the standard method that be dictate from Whitehall ; so too be rule on second home and short - term let , so community can not stem the loss of family home for local people — something that our new clause 20 would put right . rule on transport and highway capacity be also set by Whitehall , so local authority such as my own Cheddon Fitzpaine parish council can not question they . in the battle between underfunded local authority and developer with big profit to make , whitehall rule also mean that commitment to deliver affordable housing and infrastructure can all too often be evade on ground of viability — something that our new clause 112 would tackle by require an absolute minimum of 20 % social housing in any development . no wonder trust in local politic be at such a low . that have only be make bad by the chaos of the previous Conservative Government : with one rule for they and another for everyone else , basic fairness go out the window . the UK may rightly be rank among the top 20 country in the world by Transparency International , but nothing undermine fairness more than foul play , even if it be , as we know , very rare . our new clause 11 would ensure that never again can Ministers favour a planning application from a donor without that be expose in the public record . it can not ever be right for a planning decision to be take by those who will financially benefit from it . trust in the fairness of local democracy be so often shape by how much trust people have in the local planning process . our amendment 1 would remove from this Bill the power it give Whitehall to control the running of council , and the right of councillor to make decision on planning application . the power in this Bill mean that , for the first time , even a unanimous decision by every single councillor will not be enough to enable they to change a decision that their officer or planning consultant make on their behalf . give employee and consultant power over the head of the elect representative who employ they be a dangerous step , and no Parliament should endorse it . it be not just elect councillor who will lose their vote on planning . member of this House will lose their vote when it come to change to national policy statement that set the rule for the large national infrastructure project , from Hinkley C and Swansea tidal lagoon to the world ' s big offshore and onshore wind and solar farm . our amendment 128 would allow the Government to change national policy statement to reflect change in the law , but it would preserve this House ' s right to decide whether national policy on massive project should be change . People be not the problem . ordinary people be not blocker , and they should not be sweep out of the way . as I have say , they and we want to see new home and development , but these particular change , which so damage right and trust in a damage system , will not deliver any significant growth or development , because council planning committee already approve over 90 % of the planning application that come before they . Lib Dem - run Somerset council have consent to thousand of new home and be build hundred of new council house , include for the first time in a generation in part of the county , and it want to build more . just as people and community should have right , we need to stand up for the right of nature . People want to see our river and waterway clean up and our environment protect — river such as the Tone in Taunton , where community , by achieve new designation , have uncover poor water quality and a desperate need for investment . precious chalk stream across the country have no protection at all , and our amendment 16 would give they the protection they require . People want to see development that tread lightly on the land and reduce harmful emission . I agree with some of the thing that the hon . Member be say , but we all want to build fast . under the local district plan in Stroud , we have be wait four year for our housing plan , and this Bill will free we from the quagmire that be our current planning system . last Friday , I meet representative of the Gloucestershire Wildlife Trust and the Severn Rivers Trust , who have serious concern about part 3 of the Bill . do the hon . Member agree that we should have a short pause on part 3 and keep some of it ? I certainly agree that part 3 require amend . our amendment seek to do that , as I will come to shortly . People want to see development that tread lightly on the land and reduce harmful emission . our new clause 2 would enforce the zero carbon standard for all new home , on which the Liberal Democrats and Labour Ministers work so hard before the Conservatives cancel the whole zero carbon home programme in 2015 . net zero standard cut bill as well as carbon emission , so do my hon . friend share my incredulity that a Government who have be force to u - turn on winter fuel payment be refuse to back new clause 2 , which would cut bill for people of all age ? it be absolutely right to say that we should be move to zero carbon home . in fact , one study show that have they be introduce in 2015 , new homeowner would have save £ 9 billion . our new clause 25 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Chichester ( Jess Brown - Fuller ) , would give key national landscape partnership , such as in the mellow and beautiful Blackdown hill in my constituency , a seat at the planning table . as we see specie become extinct before our eye , people want to see new home and nature thrive together . crucially , our new clause 1 would put back the pre - eminent principle in all this : wherever possible , we must first do no harm to the environment on the site that be be impact . of course , there be circumstance such as phosphate mitigation , where off - site measure can deal with the problem , but by completely remove from edp the hierarchy of mitigate impact first and foremost on site , the Bill provide what the National Trust have call a " licence to kill nature " . do the hon . Member agree that the problem with the Bill be misdiagnosis ? the problem be not nature hold up house building , or local authority — which have be starve of cash for the last 15 year — hold up housing , but developer that be sit on 1 . 4 million home with planning permission , because they be land banking and profiteering . that be the problem that the Bill be not get to . we do not have to destroy nature , and we do not have to undermine our future environmental protection . the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right to draw attention to the thousand of home that have plan permission and have not be build , include the 11 , 000 we have in Somerset . while I welcome what the Government have say about bring those forward , a real " use it or lose it " power be miss from the Bill . the Liberal Democrats have table new clause 3 so that , unless those home be build , the local authority would have power to take over the land and to build the house . that would ensure a real " use it or lose it " penalty for those that do not build out the permission that they have . pit community and nature as the enemy of progress and development would be a massive mistake . take power away from councillor be take it away from local people , and take power away from member of Parliament be take it from the hand of the people who elect we to this place . both be example of centralisation and " whitehall know good " thinking , in which local view count for little and nature for even less . there be another way to build the hundred of thousand of home we need . it be to invest in 150 , 000 social home per year to pump - prime our industry , give community the funding for the job , transport , green space and energy infrastructure that our constituent want , build the new GP and healthcare facility before build the house and home our community will need , and build they in way that will support rather than harm those community . I be grateful to my hon . friend for give way , particularly as it sound as though he be come to his conclusion , but I want to give he the well possible chance to talk about new clause 115 . my constituency of Surrey Heath be make up of small village divide by green - belt land and Ministry of Defence property . without the protection afford by new clause 115 , I fear that the distinctiveness and sense of place of those village will be gradually lose . can he comment on how new clause 115 would protect the distinctiveness of place ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for the point he make . it be vital to protect the character of exist place and community that be so value , which be why we want a more locally drive approach to assess housing number and local plan make . finally , if we build the GP surgery , the healthcare and the other infrastructure before the home , we will be build in the interest of our community , not against they . that be the kind of community - lead development that Liberal Democrats want and that our amendment would help to bring about , and I humbly urge member to support they . I rise to set out the case for amendment 136 and 150 and new clause 62 , in my name . I be very pleased to hear what the Minister have say so far . the Bill would tackle the long - stand conundrum of how to deliver the ambitious house building target to which the Government be rightly commit , while protect the environment and enhance , not reduce , protection for nature . before I turn to my amendment , I want to speak briefly about the extent to which the Bill achieve those aim . I absolutely share the Government ' s commitment to free up the planning system and ensure that few people be unable to get on to the housing ladder and few child grow up in unsuitable , overcrowded and temporary accommodation . I see the impact of this country ' s failure to build the home it need in my surgery every single week , so I support the Government ' s aim to speed up that process . I also agree that planning have too often be a barrier to those ambition , and the Government be absolutely right to attempt to remove this blocker . freeing up unnecessary restriction , however , must not mean allow further nature degradation , nor do it have to . the Government have say that these ambition will be achieve alongside nature recovery . wildlife population in England have fall to around 67 % of their 1970 level ; as I say a few moment ago , Britain be now one of the " most nature - deplete " place on earth . Most of England ' s rare and vulnerable habitat be in poor condition . alongside build the home and infrastructure that our society need , we must rebuild our natural capital — the air , water , soil and biodiversity — on which our society depend . it sound as though the hon . member , like I , have a deep passion for ensure that we maintain nature , so do he agree that a simple measure would be to accept new clause 30 , which would extend permit development right for pond of up to 0 . 2 hectare , provide vital freshwater habitat for up to two third of all freshwater specie , exactly as he have be say ? I thank the hon . Member very much for that intervention , and I look forward to hear her speech in support of her new clause . I do think that have merit and be worth consider , and I look forward to hear she make her case in more detail . the Environmental Audit Committee , which I chair , initiate an inquiry into housing growth and environmental sustainability to scrutinise the Government ' s national planning policy proposal . achieve growth and deliver for people , climate and nature together be a vital but challenging task . there be many provision in this Bill that I welcome , and I thank the Minister for his effort and his detailed engagement . I be grateful that he make time to meet I recently to discuss my propose amendment . overall , I support the Government ' s intention in part 3 , and I think those party that wish to simply scrap the approach entirely be wrong . it be right to introduce a more strategic approach to satisfy developer ' environmental obligation . if do well , the environmental delivery plan and the nature restoration levy propose in part 3 could simplify and accelerate the process of meet exist environmental requirement , where development impact protect site or protect specie . importantly , I see the merit of this strategic approach in deliver large - scale and more effective nature conservation measure where development have unavoidable impact on protect site and protect specie . however , the strength of concern from knowledgeable stakeholder should give the Government serious pause for thought . the Office for Environmental Protection , which be mention early , publish advice for the Government state that the exist provision in the Bill would amount to a regression in environmental law , so it be welcome that the Minister continue to be open - minded about make further amendment . I look forward to hear about the engagement in another place , where I be certain that further amendment will be bring forward . the Environmental Audit Committee have hear evidence that there must be strong safeguard for the propose nature restoration fund to genuinely deliver on its potential for nature . my objective in table amendment to this Bill be to engage constructively with the Government ' s approach to part 3 , and to strengthen it so that it deliver for nature and development at the same time . to turn first to amendment 136 , I very much welcome what the Minister have to say about scientific safeguard , and I look forward to what he come forward with . this amendment would ensure that environmental delivery plan be use only where there be scientific evidence that they will work . in other word , there must be robust evidence that a particular negative effect on a protect site or protect specie can be mitigate or compensate for at a strategic level , rather than on a site - by - site basis . although the strategic approach that will be deliver by edp can work well for some habitat and specie , such as nutrient or newts , they do not always work for other . this amendment would safeguard against the EDP approach be apply to inappropriate specie or habitat . the Government have recognise this principle and have commit to a modular approach to expand edp with new plan apply feature by feature , and exist protection remain in place for those not yet cover . I support this approach , and I encourage the Government to enshrine this principle in legislation to give certainty that the scientific safeguard to which they have commit can not be alter by any future Government without revisit this legislation . on amendment 150 — order . in view of the pressure on time , I will limit my remark to amendment 141 , in my name . the Bill , as we have hear , seek to do many thing , but one of they be to accelerate the roll - out of electric vehicle charge point around the country to facilitate the move to electric vehicle . driver with disability , and there be 1 . 35 million of they , will also be expect to move to electric vehicle , but public charging point be often unsuitable for they to use . the amendment be design to address that . there be a British Standards Institution standard , PAS 1899 , which set out minimum standard by which charge point operator can ensure that electric vehicle driver with accessibility need be able to use public charging infrastructure both reliably and safely . it be develop in conjunction with the Motability Foundation and the Government , and be publish in October 2022 . it address common accessibility concern , such as the placement of a charge point , minimum bay size , and the height and weight of the charge cable . the problem be that the standard be not mandatory and thus far nobody can find a single public charging point that meet that standard . that be a fundamental question of equality which become more acute as the charge network become more extensive . even without the additional impetus that the Bill be intend to provide , a new charger be currently be instal every 29 minute . ensure those charger be accessible to people with disability be therefore both urgent and sensible , not least because retrofit accessibility on to an already instal network will be much more expensive . the amendment would ensure that if voluntary compliance with PAS 1899 do not improve , the Government have power to enforce compliance progressively . it would also allow local authority to monitor that compliance and oblige charge point operator to collect and report datum on the compatibility of individual charge point with key accessibility benchmark . it do that by add to the regulation - make power in the Automated and Electric Vehicles Act 2018 , which currently seek to ensure that the charge network operate to the benefit of consumer with regard to acceptable method of payment , maintenance and compatibility with different type of electric vehicle . it be surely logical to add accessibility for people with disability to that list and to do so now , while we have a relatively rare legislative opportunity . I want to take the opportunity to thank the Electric Vehicle Association England , the Motability Foundation and other organisation for their work on these proposal and their support for they . I hope the Government and the Minister will look favourably on these relatively modest change , which I argue could have a big impact on the ability of driver with disability to use the charge network that we be ask all motorist to use , and which can therefore ensure we all make the journey to electric motoring together . I rise to speak in support of amendment 137 and 138 in my name . I declare an interest as the co - chair of the local nature recovery all - party parliamentary group and a proud specie champion for the hen harrier . I be deeply committed to the protection and restoration of our natural world , and I have table the amendment to ensure there be adequate protection for protect specie . I recognise the need to take the housing crisis extremely seriously . I support numerous amendment on affordable home and social housing , include new clause 32 , table by my hon . friend the Member for North East Hertfordshire ( Chris Hinchliff ) , which would mandate that national and local housing plan incorporate and justify specific target for both affordable and social housing . it be clear that we need to build more housing , but we must ensure that that include enough social home , because a just society must care for both people and planet . in defence of nature we must remember that nature be not a luxury ; it be essential . it sustain our health , our economy , our climate and the rich web of wildlife that make our planet thrive . from the air we breathe to the food we eat and the water we drink , nature underpin every aspect of our survival , yet we be , as have be say , live in one of the most nature - deplete country in the world and the consequence be become impossible to ignore . our peatland , woodland , wetland and sea , once vibrant with life , be deteriorate . these ecosystem be not just carbon store ; they be vital habitat for countless specie . as they degrade , they not only release more carbon than they absorb , but drive wildlife into decline . iconic specie be vanish , pollinator be disappear , and once common bird and mammal be become rare , push many specie close to extinction . without urgent action to restore these ecosystem , we can not hope to meet our climate goal , or halt the alarming loss of biodiversity . every specie lose weaken the resilience of nature and our ability to adapt to a change climate . protect nature be not just an environmental imperative ; it be an economic , social and moral one . the loss of pollinator threaten our food supply . the destruction of our coastal habitat increase our vulnerability to storm and flooding , and the collapse of ecosystem put both human and animal live at risk . my amendment require that if a protect species be identify as an environmental feature , the environmental delivery plan must include a clear strategy for conservation measure to address the impact of the development on that specie within local recovery strategy area . if Natural England determine that that be not possible , or there be an override public interest not to do that , it must aim to conserve the same specie at a different site . recognise the realistic risk of local extinction and the threat face specific specie , this approach reflect a fundamental truth : protect nature be not optional ; it be essential . our ecosystem be interconnect , and the loss of even a single specie can have cascade effect on biodiversity , climate resilience and human wellbeing . by embed strong , enforceable protection for specie into development planning , we be not only safeguard wildlife but reinforce the natural system that sustain our economy , our health and , importantly , our future . give the really important point that the hon . Lady be make about the environment and how it be so strongly connect to our economy and public health , do she agree with I — I appreciate that this be on a slight tangent , but she will see where it be go — that the planning rule for big digital billboard , which themselves can emit 11 home - worth of energy , not to mention the light pollution that seriously affect nature and human health , be illogical and inconsistent ? the rule say that planning application can only be consider on highway safety and immunity ground , and not on environmental impact or on the impact on human health . would it not be well if local authority could make decision on those ground as well ? the hon . Lady make an interesting point and I be sure the Minister be listen . in a time of ecological crisis , every action must contribute to halt and reverse nature loss , because nature be not just part of the solution ; it be the solution . I hope the Minister will sit down with I to discuss these point far , as the Bill enter the other House . I rise to speak to new clause 59 , in my name , which consider the impact of our planning system on our creative and cultural industry and infrastructure . these space be the foundation of our world - beat creative industry and be also very important for our local community . they be the engine of an industry which be grow at twice the rate of the rest of the economy . they be the R & D lab of a sector that be big than our automotive , aerospace and life science industry combine . yet the creatives industry be under threat , include from our disruptive planning system and onerous licensing regime . my Culture , Media and Sport Committee have hear that live music venue will be back to shut at the rate of two a week by the end of the year . that be in addition to electronic music venue and club , which have be shut at the rate of three a week . my amendment seek to help prevent those closure by put a duty on planning decision maker to apply the agent of change principle , which have exist since the national planning policy framework in 2018 . they require developer to ensure that their development do not disrupt exist business in future , as well as place of worship , school , transport infrastructure and so on . first , the new clause would be good for venue . of the 86 grassroot music venue that close in 2024 , one in four shut for operational reason , include noise abatement order , neighbour dispute and intervention by the local council . in the previous Parliament , the Committee I chair hold a roundtable in Manchester at the Night and Day Caf é , an iconic venue . we be there to meet representative of live music venue from across the north , yet the operator could not attend their own roundtable because they be instead attend a court hearing with Manchester city council to settle a three - year noise abatement dispute — a costly and pointless legal dispute at that , as it start due to a single complaint by a tenant who have move out long before the issue be resolve . secondly , the new clause would be good for developer and new neighbour . consistent application of the agent of change principle will de - risk and speed up planning and development . it will ensure that the need of an exist cultural venue be consider from the start and save developer from late - stage objection and lengthy , expensive legal dispute down the line . it will require developer and decision maker to think about the presence of exist venue and will benefit future tenant and homeowner , who should be less impact overall . finally , the new clause would help local authority . it be council that have the duty to detect statutory nuisance and investigate noise complaint ; it be council that serve noise abatement order ; and it be council that get drag into expensive and often pointless bun fight with local venue , as the Night and Day Caf é example illustrate . encourage council to consider at the planning stage how developer and venue can find a nice equilibrium in their interest can only help to save they time and money , which be surely more efficient than settle matter in court . the new clause have widespread support . it take forward the recommendation of the CMS Committee in the previous Parliament and be support by the whole live music sector , from the operator of our small club , pub and venue to the big arena and stadium . it will benefit the breadth of our cultural infrastructure , from our historic theatre to our pulsate nightclub . it be build on evidence give by live , UK Music Creative UK , the Music Venue Trust , the Night Time Industries Association and the National Arenas Association . the new clause be not about venue versus developer ; instead , it be about ensure we have the balance right between build enough good home and make sure the place we be build keep the thing that make life worth live . everyone in Westminster and our constituency agree that our high street have be in decline , so it be vital that we protect the place that be special to we , our constituent and our community — the place that provide a platform for our creator and our world - beat creative industry , where we can make memory , celebrate and have fun . I hope the Government will support my new clause and , if not today , commit to make this law as soon as possible . live music be in crisis . the Government need to listen . I rise to speak to amendment 87 , in my name and the name of most Select Committee Chairs — certainly most of those who cover Departments — include the Chair of the Business and Trade Committee , my right hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Hodge Hill and Solihull North ( Liam Byrne ) , the Chair of the Energy Security and Net Zero Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Sefton Central ( Bill Esterson ) , the Chair of the Environmental Audit Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Chesterfield ( Mr Perkins ) , the Chair of the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee , the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) , the Chair of the Housing , Communities and Local Government Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green ( Florence Eshalomi ) , and the Chair of the Transport Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Brentford and Isleworth ( Ruth Cadbury ) . the amendment relate to the Government ' s new approach to the consultation around national policy statement , and in particular to the parliamentary scrutiny of those statement . there be currently a process by which Select Committees join force to examine national policy statement and provide recommendation to the Government , but the Government be propose to introduce what they call a new " reflective amendment " procedure where an amendment to planning policy reflect new legislation , change to Government policy or a relevant court decision since the policy guidance be put in place . we all know that the Government ' s aim be to speed up the planning process , but we need to be clear that reduce parliamentary scrutiny can have long - term consequence . I be therefore seek reassurance from the Minister as to how this will be manage . this proposal will remove the requirement to respond to either a resolution of either House of Parliament or recommendation from a Committee of either House of Parliament on the propose change ; instead , the Government would write to the appropriate Select Committee at the start of the public consultation period , which be typically six to 12 week , and the Committee would then have the option of invite Ministers to discuss the propose change during that time . my fellow Chairs and I be concerned about this change reduce the Committees ' influence and enshrine in law that the Government do not need to respond to the scrutiny or recommendation of Select Committees . rise — I give way to the hon . Gentleman , who have table a similar amendment . I be grateful to the hon . Lady and the other Select Committee Chairs for take up an issue that we take up in Committee , and about which there have be concern across the House . the Government may wish to change NPSs in the light of legal judgment , but do she agree that change to they for policy reason , particularly when they affect massive project like Hinkley Point C and Sizewell , should continue to come before the House ? if I move on to what will happen , I think the hon . Gentleman will be reassure . there be a big point here , which I do not have time to elaborate on in this debate . this change be part of a trend of Government not appreciate the role of thoughtful , thorough scrutiny from outside the whitehall bubble — this be a disease affect government of all party — and of scrutiny from mps with detailed knowledge of the subject matter . the hon . Gentleman , of course , have a strong track record on this issue outside this place , from before he become a Member of this House . those who scrutinise through Select Committees often understand the system , and how a change in policy or law can have a different effect within policy guidance because of the interaction it will have . the bad - case scenario here would be that a Committee do not have time to examine a proposal , or , if it do have time , that the Government ignore the recommendation . I be grateful to the Minister and his official for the time they have spend engage with I and the Clerk of the Liaison Committee , on behalf of the Select Committees , to try to mitigate those bad - case risk . in theory , these change could sound quite reasonable , but in practice , there be a risk that the Government could lose a useful voice that also reflect the view of other body . Select Committees also get the chance to question Ministers in public , which be important for transparency and accountability . Select Committees can also give force to the view and expertise — share in public , very often orally — of body with knowledge of the technical change that could be introduce and wrap into new or revised policy guidance . we have all be there when , at the Dispatch Box , a Minister promise that another Minister will attend a Committee and be question , but we be talk about have as little as six week to work with . we have all be in a situation in which a Minister ' s diary be so busy that it be difficult for they to attend , and that would not be good enough in this case . I hope the Minister will give some reassurance that he will , through the normal channel in Whitehall , ensure that every Department be aware of the requirement for a relevant Minister to attend within a period that allow the Committee to produce a report or respond to the Government , which do not mean at the end of a six or 12 - week consultation period . I hope the Minister can give I those reassurance . I would like he to be very clear on the record . I acknowledge the effort make in Committee to talk about this , and some of the pledge make then , but it be important that these change and the Minister ' s view and pledge be make clear in this Chamber . in Committee , the Minister say that " minister will make themselves available to speak at the Committee during that period , in so far as that be practical . " he also say that " not all select committee will respond in the relevant period , therefore elongate the process " . – – [ Official Report , Planning and Infrastructure Public Bill Committee , 29 April 2025 ; c . 103 . ] I can clarify for and reassure the Minister that it be the intention of those on Committee corridor to ensure that these thing be deal with in a proper and timely fashion . I hope that the Minister will ensure both that minister attend in a timely fashion , and that there be a proper approach that ensure that committee get advance notice of a new planning policy statement or revised statement , so that they have time to plan and get their duck in a row in order to enhance the work of Government by give they , if necessary , critical - friend comment . Scrutiny in whatever form be absolutely vital . if , as I hope , the Minister will put that on the record today , I will not push my amendment to a vote . it be vital that parliamentary scrutiny be protect as much as possible . it be clear that we be today debate methodology , rather than value . certainly , I do not dispute the Minister ' s value at all ; we all want to see growth , need meet , and the environment protect . the question that we be debate today be the good methodology for achieve those outcome . I have submit a number of amendment cover three area , which I will rattle through as quickly as I can , all of which support the theme that my hon . friend the Member for Taunton and Wellington ( Gideon Amos ) advance today , and indeed that he have pursue in Committee in previous week . amendment 148 relate to housing target . it propose allow local authority to adopt target that reduce housing need , rather than simply target to build home . house building target be in many area part of the problem , rather than the solution to housing need . for example , since the 1960 , Cornwall ' s housing stock have be among the fast growing in the United Kingdom . it have almost treble , yet housing problem for local people have get significantly bad over that time . simply set house building target result in massive hope value be attach to every single community around Cornwall . have work as a chief executive of a charity that try to build affordable home , I can say that establish house building target make it more difficult to address the housing need of local people . target that be about reduce need would change the dynamic of the planning system in place that face these problem . unfortunately , the approach to house building target that have be adopt by party over the previous decade be build on the delusion that private developer will collude with government to drive down the price of their finished product . we can no long carry on in that delusion . we can not and should not pursue counter - productive methodology . amendment 149 and new clause 108 be consequential on the fundamental change propose in amendment 148 . my hon . friend the Member for Taunton and Wellington have speak about introduce a use class order to address the prevalence of non - permanent occupancy in some area . the previous Government be look at bring in a use class for holiday let , but that should be extend to second home and all home of non - permanent occupancy . new clause 92 , which be consequential on new clause 91 , propose introduce a sunset clause for planning permission to ensure that there be not a perverse incentive for people to apply to change a property ' s use in order to enhance the value of their property when they sell it . this be not about the politic of envy but the politic of social justice . I think those who represent area or constituency with large number of second home properly understand how these thing operate . finally , I table a number of amendment relate to affordability , include new clause 89 on affordable development and new clause 90 . new clause 89 would prohibit cross - subsidy — or at least open - market development — on rural exception site . those site should not be call rural exception site ; they should be call rural norm site . that should be the methodology for deliver affordable home in rural area . it should be drive by want to have affordable home in such location . my hon . friend be make an excellent case . in North Norfolk , people want house building that genuinely meet local need and help address the housing crisis , which be affect everyone in my constituency . on affordability , do he agree that we need to empower local authority to define what " affordable " mean in their area ? my hon . friend be right about that . affordability be define for rented accommodation — either 80 % of market rent or the local housing allowance , whichever be low — but it be not sufficiently define for the intermediate market in rural area , which include share ownership and discount sale . there be way that affordability can be achieve , and that should be do within local planning . we should give local authority the power to define , for the purpose of their community , what be and be not affordable , and we should strengthen the role of neighbourhood development plan in that respect as well . new clause 90 would put a cap on developer profit . a lot of people do not understand how planning authority make their viability assessment when development be bring forward . there be an assumption of a developer profit of 20 % , but when developer ask for amendment to the way that their planning application be view , they will often have undertake two different valuation , and will come with both . one they present to the planning authority , and one they keep in their back pocket . one of the valuation come with violin , and a sob story about how they will lose out because of the development , and how they be do it only for the community . the other valuation be the reality . we know that they be make a killing out of other people ' s poverty . I be pleased to support this important Bill and the Government amendment to it , which will deliver the housing , infrastructure and environmental protection that my constituent need . first , I welcome the Government ' s enhancement to the environmental delivery plan . they provide great clarity , legal safeguard and appropriate flexibility to ensure that the plan restore and enhance our precious natural habitat . the current piecemeal approach to offset environmental harm be not work . the Government ' s sensible approach maintain exist protection for nature , and add to they with the ability to fund high - impact strategic nature recovery project . I be very lucky that there be several significant nature recovery project in my constituency , such as Sulham wood and meadow , which I have the pleasure of visit last week . this project be maximise biodiversity on 130 hectare of marginal arable land , and be plant 24 , 000 tree , 4 km of new hedgerow and a new walnut orchard . we need more big project like this . I would like to highlight the opportunity the Bill present for our country ' s chalk stream . I be proud to represent a constituency that boast many wonderful waterway , include the entire length of the River Pang — a beautiful , wind chalk stream that be a point of local pride . it be say to be the inspiration for the " Wind in the Willows " , and it be love by family , dog walker and angler alike . but the precious Pang be in crisis . in just a few short year , the water quality have plummet to poor . citizen scientist and angler test the river , such as Professor Mike Wilson and Pete Devery , consistently report sample with completely unacceptable level of phosphate and e . coli . the phosphate pollution from Thames Water sewage work be so bad that luminous green from the resultant algae can be see in satellite image . I thank all the campaigner , citizen scientist and volunteer with whom I have be work throughout my campaign to restore the Pang . I also thank the Action for River Kennet — ARK — project , the Rivers Trust , the Angling Trust , Pang Valley Flood Forum and Berks , Bucks and Oxon Wildlife Trust , as well as all member of the Pang Flagship Chalk Stream Partnership , which support a range of initiative to restore the Pang . they be all dedicated advocate whose restoration effort be make a real difference . chalk stream be rare and valuable habitat . their mineral - rich , stable water be home to a plethora of specie . the hon . Member be talk about chalk stream , which be the rainforest of the UK . a chalk stream in my constituency have have over 4 , 000 hour of non - stop sewage , and it sound like the River Pang have be a victim of something similar . amendment 16 be so important to protect our chalk stream , and local people say to I , as development come , that this be actually groundwater . would she support amendment 16 ? I thank the hon . member for her contribution . I will come to my view on that amendment . give that 85 % of the world ' s chalk stream be in England , it be right that we consider chalk stream England ' s rainforest . we have a duty , as their custodian , to protect they for future generation . while some chalk stream have protection , such as site of special scientific interest status , many , include the Pang , lack even that . the Bill , alongside our landmark water legislation , be an opportunity to expand the protection for chalk stream . I be grateful for the conversation I have have with the Minister on this issue , and I know how committed he be to our chalk stream , so I ask if he will commit to strengthen the protection for our chalk stream as this Bill progress . the Bill be an opportunity to build the home and infrastructure that this country need , boost our economy , and protect precious habitat like the Pang . I look forward to continue to support it . I rise to speak to new clause 74 in my name . first , I thank all member from party across the House who sign up to my new clause . I also thank Mr Speaker and his team for the novel offer he make this morning on how we might have deal with new clause 74 . new clause 74 be very simple . it seek to ensure that promise make to all of we as mps by prospective developer when consider application for large - scale housing development be honour . I have lose count of the number of developer who have make promise about so - call flagship housing development , gain the support of the MP and other local community stakeholder , apply for outline planning permission and then be grant it on the basis of a good mixture of home . in one case — that of Lutterworth East — a pledge be make by the developer to build a minimum of 40 % affordable home . those developer give the pledge , obtain the support and gain outline planning permission , but then , a few month or a year or two later , they seek to renege completely on the pledge give . Lutterworth East be one such example that should be informative for all hon . member . it be a cautionary tale that we ought to have at the forefront of our mind when developer come to we make pledge . Lutterworth East be the development where 40 % minimum be to be affordable housing . but what have the developer do , a mere two year after be give planning permission ? that developer , without have to seek new planning permission , simply apply to amend the section 106 legal agreement — put a gun to the head of the local planning authority , which have no choice other than to accept it for fear of lose housing for its target — to reduce the 40 % affordable housing not to 30 % or to 20 % ; it seek 0 % affordable housing . that be a disgraceful breach of trust . the local planning authority , whose local plan require 40 % minimum affordable home , allow a significant decrease . they settle on 10 % , which mean that , in the case of Lutterworth East , over 800 family will be deny an affordable house . the Minister be not currently in his place , but I say to the Government that the Bill wholly lack any suggest power to deal with that . I ask they to take on board the case of Lutterworth East and examine why the developer be allow to renege wholly on its commitment in a way that totally exclude the local community . there be no public consultation , because it be not an application for planning permission ; it be merely a change . I be really move by what the hon . Gentleman be talk about . many of we will have have similar experience . we have be hear so much about the importance of local decision making . I can not help but think if only there have be the necessary investment in skill in the planning team who make the decision and determination , and that they have have a planning committee behind they who , by all account , could have say , " you need to bring the application back in . " do he agree that we need to invest in local planning team so that they can resist such totally inappropriate application from developer ? I welcome the hon . Lady ' s suggestion , and I would welcome more resource go into local planning team , but what we have here be a problem , which she may well encounter in her own constituency . hon . member should be very careful indeed when developer promise X , Y and z affordable , social and accessible home , even with legally bind section 106 agreement , because those agreement can be change at whim when a local planning authority be put under pressure . do the hon . Gentleman agree with the Liberal Democrats that , give the unreliability of section 106 agreement and developer live up to they , as he demonstrate , the good way to get affordable home for his constituent and mine be through an increase amount of social housing deliver by the local council ? I would welcome that . the Government need to take into account Lutterworth East and to ask themselves why a Labour parliamentarian and a conservative parliamentarian have have to go beg to the Government to look into the matter . the Government purport to want to see more social housing , more affordable housing and more accessible housing , but with Lutterworth East they have have the opportunity to look into that and have choose not to rectify the issue . in conclude — I be aware that other wish to speak — I simply ask the Government whether they be willing to have a meeting with I and the Labour parliamentarian in question to discuss what they could do on this matter , give that the developer , incredibly , be none other than a county council . may we please start by acknowledge something that still have not be acknowledge enough : the current planning system be break ? nowhere be that clear than in our environmental and habitat regulation , which part 3 of the Bill be hope to fix , and which many amendment — amendment 69 in particular — would make significantly bad . let we start with a couple of clear example . first , we have the low Thames crossing . some £ 250 million be spend on a planning application span over 350 , 000 page . that be more than 250 time the length of " War and Peace " at a cost that be more than Norway pay to build the world ' s long road tunnel . fifteen year on , not a single spade be in the ground . secondly , we be currently build the most expensive nuclear power station in the history of the human race at Hinkley Point . why ? for the last eight year , EDF have be stick in regulatory wrangling over — I kid you not — a fish disco : an acoustic system design to guide fish away from water intake . million spend and still not a single resolution . my personal favourite be the infamous bat tunnel , where £ 120 million of taxpayer ' money be waste on a tunnel that might save a handful of bat from a nearby forest , though many expert argue it will more likely put they in harm ' s way . that be not plan ; it be parody . while we argue about newts and bat tunnel , what be really happen in Britain be that 150 , 000 child or more be grow up in temporary accommodation , with all the consequence mention by my hon . friend the Member for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green ( Florence Eshalomi ) . my hon . friend say we have not confront how the planning system be break . do he agree that we have not hear enough about how many child be homeless this evening and will be in the month ahead because we be not grapple with the housing crisis , and that we can not do that until we address the infrastructure crisis ? hundred of thousand of child will wake up tomorrow morning in temporary accommodation as a consequence of this , and million of family will continue pay some of the high energy bill in the western world . when russian tank roll into Europe , we be dangerously reliant on foreign oil and gas because our planning system consistently block the clean , home - grow energy generation that we so desperately need . I see some liberal Democrat Members laugh . I note that , in many case , it be their council that block that energy infrastructure from be build . will the hon . member give way ? in one of the wet country in Europe , we could face summer water shortage because we have not build a single major reservoir in over 30 year . here be the real kick in the tooth : we have pay all those price for rule that have fail even on their own term . we have create endless hoop to jump through and pour public money into bizarre mitigation scheme while Britain have become one of the most nature - deplete country on Earth . we have lose over half our ancient woodland and one in six specie be at risk of extinction . we have get few bird , few butterfly and few mammal , and yet more paperwork than ever before . we should ask this : if these rule be not help people and they be not help nature , who on earth be they for ? we throw money at scattergun mitigation — fish discos and bat tunnel — while fail to invest in strategic , landscape - scale restoration that actually work . we force every project to fit every issue on site , even when that be more expensive , less effective and totally irrational . that mean ten of thousand of individual site - by - site protection , which be bureaucratic , inconsistent and scientifically out of date , and all despite the fact that modern ecological science be clear that nature recovery depend on scale and connectivity , not isolate microproject . when I be build the second runway at Manchester airport , I have similar rant to my hon . friend ' s . I come to hate great crested newts , which be get in the way of build that second runway . surely there have to be a solution with balance , one that do not cost a quarter of a billion pound for look at the land around the low Thames crossing , but allow Government and local government to put thing such as swift brick into housing . there have to be balance . I start by appreciate the description of a rant — I will keep rant on this point until I do not have to speak to my constituent wake up in temporary accommodation because of this country ' s failure to build . I note that there be a middle ground ; in fact , it be even well than a middle ground , because through this Bill and the change we be propose we can improve the situation for nature and improve the situation for building , include incentivise developer — for example through the biodiversity net gain process — to put swift brick in place . what we currently have be not a conservation system , but a cargo cult , mimic the symbol of protection while the reality on the ground get bad . contrast that with what protect nature actually look like , from this government : a strategic land use framework that support farmer to deliver climate and nature benefit across 1 . 6 million hectare of land — more than half the size of Wales ; ban bee - kill pesticide ; back a transition to regenerative farming and planting forest on double the amount of land that will be need to build the 1 . 5 million home . will my hon . friend give way on that point ? I will make some progress . now we have a Bill that will finally move we towards environmental delivery plan that take a far more strategic approach to improve nature and increase the building that this country so desperately need . I want these change to go far . we need to look at the culture within our regulator , especially Natural England , which have become too much of a blocker to building , but this Bill be a step forward , and the amendment propose would be a step backwards . I end with this plea , especially to hon . member on my own Benches who seem to find themselves defend this broken status quo : " before you vote tonight , talk to the people who will still be here after you ' ve go home . speak to the person clean your office this evening , and ask they what it be like when rent swallow up over half your salary because we have fail to build our way out of this housing crisis . speak to the person who cook your lunch in the Tea Room , and ask what it be like to raise kid in a country with sky - high energy bill because we fail to build home - grow energy generation . ask yourself who you be here to serve : the broken spreadsheet or the people who send we here ? " if we keep put more and more barrier into our planning system , it be hard - work family across this country who will pay the price . let we fix our planning system and get Britain build again . I thank the Minister and the member of the Bill Committee for their hard work on this legislation . I regret , however , that the Minister have be so resistant to amendment from my hon . friend the Member for Taunton and Wellington ( Gideon Amos ) and from other on the liberal Democrat Benches , which I now rise to support . my constituent in Bicester and Woodstock want to see a planning system that deliver decent , affordable home for those exclude from housing , that recognise that investment in infrastructure must come before housing development and that do not create a false distinction between development and protect nature . Linda and Gary live in my constituency . Gary have complex need and Linda be his carer . their property be not suitable ; Gary can not shower or get to the garden by himself . Linda and Gary have be bid to West Oxfordshire district council for a property suitable to meet Gary ' s need for more than a year , but they have be continually unsuccessful . as many hon . member have state , we have a crisis of social housing in this country . that be why Liberal Democrats want to see an additional 150 , 000 social home build every year through amendment 15 , and why new clause 112 be so important , prevent developer from duck the delivery of social home . we also need developer to develop the building that have be consent . in Cherwell district council in my constituency , more than 8 , 000 home have be consent but not build . that have lead to a crisis , with village such as Ambrosden and Launton at the mercy of opportunist developer who have hoover up site not contain in the local plan . new clause 3 would put an end to the land banking of consented site , force developer to use they or lose they . on Second Reading I highlight to the Secretary of State that there be three nationally significant infrastructure project propose in my constituency . these mega - scheme relate to energy and transport . they may bring local benefit , but my constituent be deeply concerned by the way decision be take out of the hand of local representative . they be especially concerned that these NSIPs sit outside local plan , so that their cumulative impact be not consider when other decision be take . amendment 128 would ensure oversight of national policy statement and allow member of this House to scrutinise the Government ' s approach to national project . local infrastructure be also critical . in my constituency , Bicester , Kidlington and a number of village anticipate rapid housing growth in the come year , yet our physical and social infrastructure be already struggle to cope . my constituent want assurance that housing growth will be precede by sufficient investment in GP surgery , dentistry and school and college place , as well as water infrastructure , energy capacity and transport network . new clause 46 would require local infrastructure to be complete , while new clause 4 and 23 would ensure that water and drainage infrastructure be sufficient for development . the Minister acknowledge in his speech that many organisation and leader devote to protect nature , such as the Berkshire , Buckinghamshire and Oxfordshire Wildlife Trust and , I believe , the chief executive of the RSPB , Beccy Speight , be deeply concerned by the way minister have characterise measure to address the nature emergency as blocker to development . the Minister dispute that , so it be disappointing that the Government have not accept new clause 9 , which would have have the modest goal of encourage swift brick and other measure for wildlife in new development . I hope he will also reconsider new clause 1 , which set out the Government ' s principal commitment to take all reasonable step to avoid adverse environmental effect , and I urge the Government to accept new clause 17 , which would ensure a fair level of community benefit for new energy infrastructure project . at the same time , this Bill miss an opportunity to raise the environmental standard of new home . I welcome the Minister ' s commitment at the weekend that new home will have solar panel by default , and the tribute he pay to my hon . friend the Member for Cheltenham ( Max Wilkinson ) for campaign on that issue . however , I regret that the Government have not accept new clause 2 , which would have set a zero carbon standard for new home . the Minister and I have frequently discuss the write ministerial statement of December 2023 under the previous Administration , which undermine the effort of West Oxfordshire district council in my constituency to set a low carbon standard for the development of Salt Cross . I appreciate that he may not accept new clause 2 , but will he at least agree today to withdraw that write ministerial statement and to release the development of high - quality home that will be good for the environment and good for their new resident ? I rise to speak in favour of the Planning and Infrastructure Bill because it will build high - quality housing , reform energy grid connection and deliver critical energy infrastructure . I also rise to speak in favour of new clause 82 , table in my name and back by 71 mp with cross - party support , to achieve happy , healthy childhood . we should bring forward a statutory duty in England , like those in Scotland and Wales , to ensure inclusive and sufficient play opportunity . the foreword to the first and only play strategy to be publish , by a Labour Government in 2008 , state : " time and space to play safely be integral to our ambition to make England the good country in the world for child and young people to grow up " . that ambition remain , but the strategy be scrap because , a few year after its publication with a £ 235 million budget , the coalition Government draw a red line through everything . we need to prioritise play in this Parliament . why ? because in the intervene year , hundred of playground in our constituency have be board up and allow to rust . this have be especially true in disadvantaged community . our poor community have be the great casualty of austerity , and we know the consequence . screen time dominate and we have a rise in social medium . politician be very good at tell child to get off their screen without provide the alternative play opportunity . with more play and less screen time , we can have well mental health outcome for child . we can have more safety in our street and we can have well social development opportunity . play be prevention . when we improve life quality and life chance , we save the public purse significant sum in the long run because we reduce demand on the NHS , on our council and on our social service . my hon . friend be make an excellent speech , and he be clearly speak on the basis of a great deal of experience as a former senior councillor in Oxford . I wonder if he would like to dwell on some other aspect of this , because in many way , play also benefit child ' s social development and their ability to work and concentrate on learn at school . do he agree that there be many other benefit to play , and will he praise local authority such as Reading that be actively promote play area ? my hon . friend will know that I have spend a lot of time in read get to know his constituent and the community , and I do indeed praise the people that he be talk about . I agree that , with time and space for play , child will have the very good start in life , but this be not just about child ; it be also about their family . we be in an ongoing cost of living crisis . with play , and outdoor play in particular , we have free opportunity for parent and guardian to give their child the support , the social development and the leisure opportunity that they need and deserve . my hon . friend be make a powerful speech . in my constituency , the Scalby school playing field long serve the community as vital green space , but that space be under threat as the council be seek to remove protection , which could lead to its be sell . do my hon . friend agree that that be why this new clause be so necessary , as it would ensure that the council either keep the field or make equivalent provision of land for child to play on ? I make it a habit to agree with my hon . friend and I will keep that tradition today . I do indeed agree , and she rather anticipate the point that I be about to make . new clause 82 be so important because it provide key thing that our child need . it would require developer to deliver and fund adequate play in their community . it would ensure no net loss without equivalent provision as a consequence of development , but let I be clear : this be not about require every development to have a blanket requirement . it be not about hold every development hostage , because we know that development be important for growth in our community . it be about ensure that council be well equipped and that planning authority be support to take a view in the round of what play sufficiency would be in a give area , and indeed to use contribution from developer to fund adequate — indeed , excellent — play provision . I know that my hon . friend be passionate about this issue , as be I as a signatory to this new clause . in my constituency of Stafford , Eccleshall and the village , I have be work with a group of local parent on a joint campaign for safe , inclusive park for neurodiverse child . those space benefit not just neurodiverse child but parent who also need somewhere safe to go with their child and young people . in recognition of the cost of living crisis , do my hon . friend agree that these space should be provide for all child , not just those who be neurotypical , and that they should provide space for their parent too ? my hon . friend and I have talk many time about the importance of inclusive play , and I commend she as a fantastic champion for child with special educational need and disability to access those play opportunity . I agree with she entirely , and one thing that my new clause 82 would do be to introduce a requirement for planning authority to assess play sufficiency , particularly inclusive play sufficiency . that be a critically important point . in a nutshell , we need to have national policy framework and national planning action that will ensure that the voice of child and their family be properly listen to , that they be consult on their need , and that planning authority be require and support to introduce the outdoor play equipment and area that can so enhance their life chance . in so do , we would be build on the work of that last Labour Government that I be just talk about . if you ever want to enjoy a beautiful photograph that sum up all of what the last Labour Government be do , have a look at Ed Balls and Andy Burnham on a swing announce the 2008 national play strategy . it be a fantastic sight . genuinely , you can see in their face the joy that come from play and extend play opportunity . you can see that they be Ministers who be fantastically enjoy their job , and that be because they be deliver for child . that 2008 strategy be a critical development in the world of play , and the play sector respond so positively to it . it come with £ 235 million of investment to provide up to 3 , 500 new or refurbish playground . I still get send photograph by people who have see those playground with the Department for Children , Schools and Families logo on they , with its beautiful rainbow , and we should have more of that . to conclude , this Bill be critical for child ' s development . this be also a pro - growth new clause because we have in our play sector small family business who contribute to our economy to the tune of £ 250 million and be power employment and economic opportunity in our community . our country feel like it need a lick of paint at time . we need pothole fill , we need litter collect and we need playground repair . in so do , we can bring hope back to our community , and in do that we can help people to feel positive about the potential for politic to make change . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Bournemouth East ( Tom Hayes ) . that be an important speech and I concur entirely with his priority there . it be really important that we invest in the social infrastructure of play for the benefit of child , although not necessarily for the benefit of Ed Balls and Andy Burnham — an appalling image be conjure by the hon . gentleman there — but I concur with his general point . I want to speak in support of my new clause 87 , which would require the Government to designate more chalk stream as protect site within six month of the Bill pass . we know that 85 % of the world ' s chalk stream be in this country . there be only 220 of they , so they be a rare and very special habitat . Most of those chalk stream be in southern England , and I be glad to say that most of the most important one be in Wiltshire . Morgan ' s Hill on the edge of my constituency be a hydrological dividing line where a drop of rain can end up in the River Kennet and then the Thames , flow out to the North sea . alternatively it can go down the Hampshire Avon into the english channel , or it can go out west along the Bristol Avon and end up in the Atlantic . this be a very significant place , with water from Wiltshire flow through the whole of southern England . those chalk stream be 60 million year old and they have flow clear and clean all that time until very recently in the modern era . they be over - abstracted ; too much water be be take out because of overdevelopment and bad house building . they be contaminate with agricultural run - off and , of course , sewage spill . I pay tribute and give my sincere congratulation to all the campaigner in my constituency . we will all have similar organisation locally , but action for the River Kennet in particular be do great work to support that river and angler , school and farmer in our area . I also pay tribute to the Southern Streams initiative that support farmer across Wiltshire to restore the health of the soil and the water in our area . the last Government introduce some important new measure to restore and preserve the health of our chalk stream . these include the water restoration fund , which ensure that the fine levy on water company for sewage spill go to restore nature in the area that have be harm . we introduce a storm overflow discharge reduction plan , stewardship scheme that address the question of agricultural run - off and , in the Levelling - up and Regeneration Act 2023 , we ensure that chalk stream be consider as part of environmental assessment for new development . we also introduce the chalk stream recovery plan , which be sadly halt by the Labour Government when they come into power last year . they keep some of our legacy , I be glad to say , but they have pause the sustainable farming incentive and I be afraid to say that we expect cut to stewardship scheme in the spending review this week . crucially , they scrap the water restoration fund itself . Thames Water be fine over £ 100 million last month because of sewage spill in our area . that money should have go to support natural restoration in the Thames Valley area , include in Wiltshire . it have be take by the Treasury . we do not know where that money will go . the Government have also scrap the chalk stream recovery plan . my concern about the Bill , and why I table the amendment , be that it will put additional pressure on our chalk stream . yes , we need new building — absolutely , that priority be right and what we need — and build in our backyard , but the backyard of Wiltshire be Swindon . we need to see more intense development in urban area where the real demand for housing be . that will be a great blessing to Swindon and Wiltshire if we can make that happen . the new clause in my name would protect more chalk stream as protect site . I be glad to say that the Kennet and the Hampshire Avon be already sssi , but we need to see more stream designate in that way . it be not enough to protect only 11 of the 220 chalk stream in this country ; the more designation , the well . that would create genuine momentum behind the preservation of chalk stream , so that when development be be consider , we can be sure that these vital national natural asset be properly protect for the future . the Bill before the House have the potential to be one of the most pro - growth piece of legislation pass by this place for decade and to transform our country for the well , but the amendment propose will blunt its impact and make we all bad off . we should reject they for the prosperity of our constituent and the future of our country . every day in this place have to be about our constituent and the life they lead . in Chipping Barnet , time and again I see the impact of our failure to build home . take Maryam — a victim of domestic violence and mother of a seven - year - old , work a zero - hour contract . she find herself with nowhere suitable to live to the point that she be live in a car . or take Hayley — a wheelchair user live in a property that be not accessible for she . due to a lack of available housing that be appropriate for she , she be often housebound because she simply can not leave she home without support . these be the story of Britain today , but it do not need to be like this . this Bill give we a once - in - a - generation opportunity to fix many of the thing hold our country back . for too long , we have not build enough in this country , and we be pay a huge price for that . under - investment in our home and infrastructure have make we all bad off , both financially and socially , live in home that skewer the prospect of a good life . that be why I do not support the Opposition amendment . I also do not support amendment 69 propose by my hon . friend the Member for North East Hertfordshire ( Chris Hinchliff ) , which sadly miss the mark . Labour be elect on a manifesto that seek to prioritise growth and make people well off . the Bill demonstrate how that be possible , alongside improve protection for nature . the nature restoration fund be a genuine win - win , but its successful and timely implementation be put at risk by the amendment . will the hon . member give way ? I will make a bit more progress . let we take the example of nutrient neutrality . it be estimate that no few than 160 , 000 home across the country have be block by Natural England on that basis . that be because on - site mitigation on a site - by - site basis be often virtually impossible , and those home remain stalled . the environmental delivery plan that Natural England will produce will mean that rather than home be hold up by those rule , the very issue cause nutrient neutrality challenge can be address in a strategic way — well for building , for nature and for people . edp take the challenge of nutrient neutrality seriously and mean that builder can get stall site build , provide much - need new home . my hon . friend may have slightly confuse the point of amendment 69 , which be merely to address the concern raise by the Office for Environmental Protection and to ensure that the nature restoration fund work to deliver exactly the point that he describe with the right nature protection . I will come to the point my hon . friend raise in a second . if the amendment be adopt , the home that have be block to date would continue to be block , and vast number would face unacceptable delay or , indeed , never be build . what would happen under the amendment , as we can interpret it , be that we would first have to wait for the EDP to be draft , for the relevant funding to be secure and for the funding to be distribute to the relevant farmer or other who can help with the mitigation . the work would then have to take place ; the impact of the mitigation would have to be monitor ; and the monitoring would then have to conclude that it have be a success before any new home in an area could be build where nutrient neutrality be a concern . do the hon . Member agree that what he have just describe would lead to more delay in the system , which would mean that more planning permission be hold up — something that Opposition member have complain about ? if the amendment be pass , the requirement would also add a lot more expense to the system , which would mean more viability problem and few social home be build . I agree with those point . it would also make it virtually impossible to meet our manifesto commitment , on which we be elect , to build the 1 . 5 million home that we need over this Parliament . the hon . Member know that I be a big fan of his . he make a speech about our and other amendment block the delivery of home . will he therefore criticise his government , who have reduce the number of home require in his constituency through reduce the number of house be build in London under his mayor ? I expect the hon . Member know that the housing target have be reduce in London because of the additional premium that be put on by the previous Government just to make life more difficult for the Mayor of London , which we all know conservative love to do . we be try to be reasonable and proportionate in the location of the new home . as I be say , it be important for we to do all we can to ensure that we can hit our target of 1 . 5 million new home . as much as I respect my hon . friend the Member for North East Hertfordshire and his work in this space , I hope his amendment will not command the support of the House today . I know my hon . friend and Members on both side of the House be strong supporter of social housing , but without the unamended change in the Bill , we will not get the social home that we need to be build . People have speak movingly about those live in temporary accommodation . I spend four year or so as a child live in emergency and temporary accommodation . I be homeless for a number of year . back then — 15 or 20 year ago — there be not that many young child who be homeless and in temporary accommodation . there be now 160 , 000 child — one in 21 child in London , one in every single class — in temporary accommodation . we can not allow a system that fail both nature and those child to persist . I implore any colleague think of vote for the amendment to think of those child and the vital home that could be build , and build quickly and at pace . will my hon . friend give way ? I should make progress so that other can speak ; my hon . friend and I will have to talk later . this Bill and this Government be all about the economic growth that ultimately be the route to more job , more opportunity and high living standard — a well life for all of we in every part of the country . that be the potential of this Bill , and we must match the scale of the problem with the scale of our ambition . Britain ' s economic decline have go on for too long . family be suffer with a crippling cost of live crisis , drive by high housing cost in many part of the country and high energy bill everywhere . we just do not invest as a country ; we do not build , and year after year we find ourselves surprised that we be bad off and that we be stick in a doom loop from which no politician in recent decade , if we be honest , have have the gut to pull we out . we finally have a Government elect on a promise to wrest we from this decline , and legislation that take step in the right direction to do just that . of course , there be more to do — much more — but this be a strong legislative start . for the prosperity of all our constituent , I hope the Bill pass unamended today . I rise to speak in support of new clause 43 , 44 , 52 , 53 and 81 , if I have time . Mid Bedfordshire be a fast - grow area and have accommodate more than its fair share of new home in the past decade . since 2012 , the two district that my constituency cover have deliver over 35 , 000 new home , include the new town of Wixams . yet this Government would have we believe that those people in my constituency who have see housing growth outpace service , who be still wait for the long - promise GP surgery , for train station and for other infrastructure , and who fear that the character of their historic Ends village be be lose , be all blocker because they be concerned about what more badly plan development would mean for the overstretch amenity and service in their area . the Bill be an opportunity to lead . it be an opportunity not to pit blocker against builder but to deliver a system that turn blocker into builder . regrettably , as it stand , the Bill will fail , but it do not have to fail . my new clause 52 would create a fairer way of manage new town by reform the new town programme , which seem expressly design to make local community resent the town foist upon they . it would replace that new town model with one that do not involve a double whammy of house building — currently , community that want to do the right thing and build the house that people need find every patch of countryside be hoover up because the Government have add a new town on top of the developable area in their district . my new clause 53 would close the loophole that allow planning authority to grant development on floodplain . that be a perfectly sensible and pragmatic position . People in Maulden in my constituency know all too well how bad development compound the risk of flooding . they be honest hard - work people who want to enjoy the warm and dry home that their hard work have pay for , but the Government be back big - box developer , not they . the new clause would prevent developer from get away high and dry with their profit while our constituent pay the price in flooded home . new clause 44 , in the name of my hon . friend the Member for Ruislip , Northwood and Pinner ( David Simmonds ) , would do the same by ensure that where development do happen , developer must deliver and maintain sustainable urban drainage infrastructure . the current guidance be too vague and the current rule too lax to ensure that our resident be protect . my Mid Bedfordshire constituency have lot of beautiful village , but they be under threat from the creep spread of urban sprawl that threaten to merge they into a conglomerate mass of development , which fly in the face of the historically gentle and natural evolution of our beautiful estate village . I therefore endorse new clause 43 for its effort to stop our beautiful village from be lose to future generation . to put it more simply , the sense of urban sprawl be about the green belt not just between specific village but between community . we see that between Streetly and Pheasey in my constituency on the edge of Birmingham . do he agree that it would help to tackle the problem if the Government adopt a truly brownfield - first approach by develop the 1 . 2 million home that it be estimate be available on brownfield site ? I absolutely agree with my right hon . friend . those green space on the edge of and between town be at risk . it be not just the field that be at risk but people ' s access to green space , which be vital for mental health and wellbeing . in relation to new clause 44 , which my hon . friend support , do he agree that the Government could very easily accept it because it enable and encompass an exist piece of legislation and could make a vast difference to many of the development propose ? why do he think the Minister will not accept it ? the shadow Minister make the case for I , so I do not think I need to . I absolutely support new clause 44 . I will make a final point so that we can hear from another speaker . I be proud to support new clause 81 in the name of my hon . friend the Member for Mid Leicestershire ( Mr Bedford ) . community such as Wixams in Mid Bedfordshire too often find that the housing - first , infrastructure - second approach that our planning system prefer mean that they get all of the housing but none of the infrastructure — that be just not right . it be not right that , nearly two decade on from the first shovel go into the ground , it be still not clear when Wixams will get its long - promise GP surgery , while more and more house be plan around it . we must end that cycle and ensure that where infrastructure be promise , infrastructure be deliver . that be what the new clause will do . we have a once - in - a - generation opportunity to build a planning system that turn blocker into builder . we must do well than this Bill , which I fear will only build more blocker . rise — Order . I give Members notice that I will take the time limit down to four minute after the next speaker . I rise to speak in favour of the amendment in my name , particularly amendment 69 , which have 53 supporter from across the House . every family stick on a housing waiting list , and every child suffer the insecurity of temporary accommodation , represent a moral stain on our country . I welcome Ministers ' urgency in seek to address those corrosive failure , which , for million , underpin a lingering sense that our country be deeply break . however , I fear that the Government have misdiagnose the root cause of the housing crisis , which be fundamentally that private capital will never deliver the public good that we need . the evidence be clear that process that uphold democracy and nature be not the problem ; profit maximisation be . the planning system consistently approve more home than the private sector deliver , and when home be build , they be too often unaffordable for those at the sharp end of the housing crisis . last year , less than 2 % of home deliver through section 106 be for social rent . after 20 year of deregulation , hope that just one more wave will finally make the market deliver be simply not credible . it certainly do not justify strip away the few protection that we have leave for our natural environment , especially when the Government ' s own assessment could provide no concrete evidence that it would work . we be already one of the most nature - deplete nation in the world , and we can spend what little remain of our natural inheritance only once . if the Government press ahead with their proposal , the national account will soon be empty . there be the kernel of a good idea in a nature restoration fund , but the weight of evidence against the way that it have be draft be overwhelming : nature organisation , academic , ecologist and the Office for Environmental Protection have all raise serious concern . I welcome the tone of early commitment from Government Front Benchers , but amendment 69 give Ministers the opportunity to rescue something positive from the wreckage of this legislation by ensure that environmental delivery plan serve their purpose without allow developer to pay cash to destroy nature , and that conservation take place before damage , so that endangered specie be not push close to extinction before replacement habitat be establish . the amendment outline that conservation must result in improvement to the specific feature harm . that will protect irreplaceable habitat such as chalk stream . our natural capital , which underpin all prosperity in this country , decline by a third from 1990 to 2014 . this be a chance to reverse that trend . give that Letchworth Garden City in my constituency spring into life without a single mature tree be fell , we can build the home that we desperately need to clear our housing waiting list in harmony with nature . to conclude , the primary value to which our politic have seek to appeal have for decade be self - serve ambition , but as the party of change and of the people , Labour have a duty to serve a high virtue : hope . I be talk about hope for a future in which our nation no long imagine housing as an ever - appreciate financial asset , and instead build home that provide the secure and healthy environment essential for our physical and mental wellbeing , and that allow everyone to put down the root necessary to grow and fulfil their true potential ; hope for a future in which we create connected community of friendship and co - operation , rather than have the grey and miserable utilitarianism of commuter dormitory ; hope for a future in which we take every possible opportunity to restore the glory of british nature and can meaningfully say , for the first time in generation , that we have leave the nation rich than we find it ; in short , hope that we choose by design to surround every man , woman and child in these island with constant proof that life be beautiful . I declare my interest as co - chair of the all - party group on local nature recovery . when the Government first introduce this Bill , they brand it a win - win . they say that we could build the home and infrastructure that this country desperately need and protect and restore nature . we have see in my constituency — one of the fast grow area of the country , with a liberal Democrat - run local planning authority — that it be indeed possible to demand from developer both ambitious house building and high environmental standard that restore nature . we Liberal Democrats believe that a healthy childhood for all child include home that be energy - efficient and warm , not cold and damp ; access to green space for mental and physical health ; and infrastructure , include public transport , GPs and school . when do well , nature be a partner to the healthy home and green energy that our country need . however , through this Bill , the Government risk take a wreck ball to good - quality development . nature be not a blocker to development . we be point the figure at the wrong culprit , and this be cheap , false rhetoric . nature be not to blame . the Government ' s own watchdog , the Office for Environmental Protection , have publicly warn that the Bill in its current form will be a regression from current environmental protection , rather than increase the number of home , help nature and help we to meet our bind climate and nature pledge . instead it will remove vital safeguard and put protect site and specie at risk . over 30 lead environmental organisation , include the RSPB , the wildlife trust and the National Trust , have raise the alarm about part 3 of the Bill , with its very worrying plan to move to a " cash to trash " model for the nature restoration fund . I know the Minister have reject that characterisation , but in the Environmental Audit Committee we hear robust evidence from expert witness that we could call it a " pay some amount later for something , somewhere " fund . do my hon . friend share my dismay that the Government be not receptive to amendment to part 3 that would restore the mitigation hierarchy and protection for irreplaceable specie and ancient woodland ? I completely concur . we appreciate the work do by my hon . friend and other in the Bill Committee , and by table numerous amendment at this stage to help the Government improve the Bill . why do we need more stringent regulation and demand on developer , rather than less ? why do we need evidence and mitigation approve prior to development , rather than a " pay later for something , somewhere " nature restoration fund ? it be because we have the evidence to show what happen without much - need investment in enforcement capacity for local council . on the Environmental Audit Committee , we hear the conclusion of the Lost Nature report : for nearly 6 , 000 home across 42 development , only half of the environmental pledge be keep . the other be miss in action — a staggering 83 % of hedgehog highway , 100 % of bug box and 75 % of both bat and bird box . we need more . that be why I be speak to the target amendment my hon . friend have mention , to make sure we can have this win - win . his ew clause 1 would reinstate the mitigation hierarchy as a legal duty . simply put , the duty be : first , avoid harm ; then mitigate if that be not possible ; and only compensate and offset as a last resort . this principle have underpin environmental planning for decade and can not be cast aside . amendment 6 to 10 and new clause 26 and 29 aim to address the Office for Environmental Protection ' s concern and strengthen the overall improvement test for environmental delivery plan . I support new clause 21 , which require local plan to have due consideration to the local nature recovery strategy , which be currently silent in the planning system . amendment 16 and 70 would give protection to England ' s globally rare chalk stream — our rainforest and our groundwater . we have 85 % of the world ' s chalk stream , many of they in Lib Dem constituency , include mine , yet they remain unprotected . I hope the Government will consider amendment to the Bill , because we face a choice : pass this nature - wreck Bill as it stand , or fix it by adopt amendment to protect chalk stream , restore wildlife and create a planning system that work with nature , not against it . I know what the Liberal Democrats will be vote for . I rise to speak as a member of the Housing , Communities and Local Government Committee , and in support of new clause 50 . for too long , affordable housing have become a catch - all term that mean anything but . shared ownership and discount market scheme be product that may work for some , but for many , they offer no real housing security . what those people need be not the option of get a foot on the property ladder in the distant future , but a roof over their head now . they need security , stability and home that be truly affordable , and that mean social rent . if we be serious about tackle the housing emergency , then clear , national target for delivery of social rent home be essential . that be why I support new clause 50 , which would bring forward the accountability and direction that we need to get building and start deliver for those who have be let down for too long . as housing charity Shelter identifie , build more social rent home be the only last solution to the housing emergency . those home be genuinely affordable because their rent be link to local income ; there be secure tenancy ; and any rent increase be more predictable . in my constituency — I know colleague from across the House will recognise this from their inboxe — family be trap in substandard housing or temporary accommodation for year on end . many of we have , I fear , become desensitise to the story of family with no kitchen to cook in , no quiet space for child to learn , and no peace in which to rest . that be the daily reality for far too many family in the UK . this be a national scandal . let we be honest : it do not appear overnight . for over a decade , the previous Government fail to build the home that this country desperately need . they dismantle council house building , slash local authority budget , and leave the private rent sector unchecked . those failure have leave this Government with an inheritance of a hollow - out system that respond to homelessness after the fact , instead of prevent it at root . I welcome the fact that this Labour Government be change this reality for family in my constituency through significant policy change , and by allocate £ 800 million to the affordable home programme , and I be proud that a significant proportion of those home will be for social rent , but we need to go far . publishing or update planning guidance on how local and national decision maker can contribute to the delivery of social rent home can make a significant difference . that would align planning , investment and delivery with a share goal . we know the scale of the challenge . as many have note , we need to build 90 , 000 social rent home each year , not just for the remainder of this Parliament , but for the next decade , to meet current demand and get on top of the deep backlog . we must equip council and delivery partner with the resource , plan power and clarity of mission that they need . new clause 50 support that clarity , make sure that every local and regional planning decision be pull in the same direction . I agree with the Minister on the need for strategic planning , the potential that spatial development strategy have to unlock large - scale regional housing solution , and the power of land value uplift to fund affordable home . these be important tool , but they would be well support by clear target . set a national target for social rent home be not about whitehall dictate number from above ; it be about say that we be serious about tackle homelessness . I echo the word of this government : this country need builder , not blocker . central to that sentiment must be set a clear social housing strategy , so that we know not just that we must build , but how much we must build , and hold ourselves accountable for deliver those home . I will be brief as many colleague be wait to contribute . I will speak only to new clause 40 , which call for a review of the standard method of assess local housing need . a couple of colleague have already mention aspect of it , but I will talk about it for three reason : it put too many housing development requirement on rural area , rather than city ; in area like mine there be physical constraint , such as national park , which can cause difficulty ; and , as specify in the new clause , the system need to take account of different type of housing and their affordability . first , the new formula mean that too much housing be be put into rural area , away from urban area . as we have hear , in some part of London and Birmingham target be be reduce , but there have be a 50 % uplift in housing number nationally and a 100 % uplift in my constituency . this be not a north - south issue ; it be repeat in rural area throughout the country , include in the far north - west and the far north - east . it do not correct what some people may think of as an historical imbalance , where all the development be in town and not in the country , because over the past couple of decade development have be disproportionately in predominantly rural area rather than predominantly urban area . this be also bad for the Government ' s growth agenda because , as the Resolution Foundation and other have point out , skew development towards city and town be well for growth because of connectivity . secondly , I be concerned about physical constraint such as national park . development in a constituency such as mine , where over half the land area be inside a national park , create particular issue in the area just outside the national park . the Minister and his official have be listen and they have be very helpful ; I hope that they will continue to give the issue full consideration and that there will be a change . thirdly , a big thing that be include in the text of the new clause be about the mix in housing . new clause 40 state that the Secretary of State should " review the standard method for assess local housing need " and " should consider different type of property " look at the " price per square metre rather than price per unit . " in area such as mine , and in many constituency across the country , we want more affordable house to be build , but that be not what the formula deliver because often — not exclusively , but disproportionately — it be more attractive to developer to build large , five - bedroom executive house . that , combine with the fact that overall new build home trade at a premium to the exist housing stock , mean that the unaffordability of an area get bad as a result of the formula , not well . the formula then react upon itself to say , " you be now a more unaffordable area — now give we more of these executive home . " I do not think that be what minister want , so the new clause be a helpful proposal from the Opposition . I hope that Ministers will give it serious consideration , to ensure that the housing formula create incentive for high - quality but low - price housing . the new clause do not prejudge exactly how that should be do , but call upon the Government to look again at the system . I know the Minister be a reflective Minister and I hope he will do just that . I rise to speak to my amendment 134 , which seek to address a long - stand and deeply entrench failure in our planning system : the chronic undersupply of Gypsy and Traveller site across England . my amendment seek to increase fairness in the system and to enable , rather than hinder , the provision of adequate , culturally appropriate accommodation for Gypsy and Traveller community . for too long the accommodation need of Gypsies and Travellers have be overlook by the planning system . research by Friends , Families and Travellers and Dr Simon Ruston look at 100 local planning authority and find that site provision have barely change since the legal duty to provide they be scrap in 1994 . of the 149 public site in those area , 119 be build before 1994 , mean that just 30 have be develop in the past 30 year — that be only 30 new site across all 100 local authority in three decade . decision on Gypsy and Traveller site have frequently be underpin by prejudice , whether overt or institutional . too often , propose development be block or delay by local opposition that be not meet with political will or leadership . site delivery also suffer from a lack of inclusion at the strategic planning level , where Gypsy and Traveller site provision can be absent from local plan and exclude from land allocation . this absence be not an accident ; it be the result of year of structural marginalisation that the Bill must now correct . I acknowledge the positive step that the Government take in 2024 , which work toward address some of those failure . however , we must go far if we intend to support provision and address inequality in the planning system . we have see an increase in private site , which be welcome , but we often hear about the long , draw - out , difficult and expensive process that individual family go through to achieve planning permission . it be crucial to acknowledge that , just as with other community , home and land ownership be not within reach of many and social provision be much need . we be still see a troubling trend : the number of socially rent pitch be decline . accord to the Traveller caravan count live table , the number of socially rent pitch have fall in the past five year , with a reduction of 179 pitch . my amendment would ensure that Gypsy and Traveller accommodation need be explicitly include in strategic planning , which mean embed the site provision in the spatial development strategy under propose new section 12d to the Planning and Compulsory Purchase Act 2004 . those new strategy would help to shape housing across whole region . leave out Gypsy and Traveller site would repeat the mistake of the past . other key planning change need to be address in this Bill , but I will speak with the all - party parliamentary group for Gypsies , Travellers and Roma in due course . finally , I remind the House that the Government have commit to deliver 1 . 5 million new home by 2029 . if that ambition be to be truly inclusive , it must include everyone . that mean make space — literally and politically — for community that have be move on , fence off and forget . I urge the Government to consider these amendment at a later stage , not just for the sake of legislative clarity , but for the future of Gypsies and Travellers across the country . I rise to speak to new clause 61 , on the issue of cable ploughing — specifically , on the plan put forward by Green GEN Cymru . it propose a 90 - km power line , much of which would be suspend on pylon , across the breathtake Twyi valley , and an additional 65 kilometre of power line across the equally beautiful Teifi valley . this be not just any landscape ; it be the heart of rural Wales . these be not just two valley across rural Wales ; they be treasure by community that have live and work there for generation . from the beginning , resident and farmer make one thing clear : we support green energy , but it do not have to come at the cost of our countryside . we have call persistently for cable to be place underground so that we can embrace a sustainable future while preserve Wales ' s natural beauty and agricultural land . unfortunately , our voice have go unheard . surveyor have come on to the land without proper respect , disregard the right of landowner , and in some case people have feel intimidate and pressure into sign away land that have be in their family for century . I welcome the hon . member ' s contribution , as she be speak to my new clause 61 . this be a huge issue in Suffolk Coastal , where we have National Grid and ScottishPower Renewables make landfall , and farmer in my constituency have a similar experience to farmer in her constituency . after this debate , perhaps we can request a meeting with the Minister and share these example in person . I would love to have that opportunity . I thank the hon . Lady for put forward her new clause — it be a pleasure to sign up to it . we should not expect the behaviour that I mention from those who claim to be build a green future . let we be honest : if Green GEN Cymru have choose to place the cable underground from the start , as the new clause propose , it would have save itself significant trouble . it argue that that be too expensive , but what about the cost of delay and the legal cost of take landowner to court , which be what have be happen ? there be another cost : the cost of resilience . just look at what happen over the last winter during Storm Darragh and storm É owyn : overhead line fail , power be lose in my area for up to seven day and compensation from the National Grid have to be pay . if those cable have be place underground , the impact would have be minimal . long - term thinking be not just the right thing , but the practical thing to do . I remind the Chamber that Wales have the well - being of Future generation ( Wales ) Act 2015 , which be a commitment to development that be truly sustainable and do not compromise the ability of our child and grandchild to thrive just to cut cost today . let we ensure that the transition to clean energy serve the need of both the present and the generation yet to come . let we ensure that it be not do to our community , but do with they . let we deliver a future that be both green and ground . I rise to speak to amendment 91 , on allotment and community garden , and to new clause 60 , on landfill site , both of which stand in my name . the UK currently have a shortage of allotment , with nearly 160 , 000 people on english local authority waiting list . we need more space to grow . for the 8 million people in the UK who have no garden at home , share space such as community garden be a vital lifeline to nature . I be proud that my amendment 91 be support by the Royal Horticultural Society , the Horticultural Trades Association , member of the National Network for Community Gardening and the National Allotment Society , as well as by member across the House . without be overly prescriptive , my amendment aim to tackle the erratic provision of allotment and community garden across the country , make they an essential part of all spatial development strategy . in her correspondence with I , the Under - Secretary of State for Housing , Communities and Local Government , my hon . friend the Member for Bethnal Green and Stepney ( Rushanara Ali ) , say that because there be " nothing prevent " local authority from include those green space in their strategy , amendment such as mine be not need . I would like to refute that — that be precisely the problem . a person ' s space to grow should not be dependent on their postcode or the whim of their council . that be especially the case give that the loss of allotment land over the past 75 year — 60 % — have be eight time great in deprive community such as mine . in his 2024 annual report , Sir Chris Whitty say : " make … access to green space easy and more equitable , would go a long way toward remove barrier to improve physical activity level and could significantly improve the health of England ' s increasingly urban population . " these small but mighty green space be about more than just vegetable ; they be essential to support health , nature recovery and food security . they also supercharge biodiversity , because the quality of soil on allotment create a unique environment in which life can thrive . in the midst of a nature crisis , gardener and amateur horticulturist be our secret weapon . what be more , allotment create space for education and social project . with so many on waiting list or block from turn an unloved patch of land into a community garden , and with a desperate need for nature recovery , my campaign represent a win - win for the Government . I now turn to my new clause 60 , which come in direct response to a gross injustice for my own constituent . Droppingwell tip in Rotherham be close in the 1990 follow a determined campaign by local resident . it be subsequently cap and return to a natural state . two decade later , in 2016 , a permit variation be grant by the Environment Agency , allow landfill operation to resume without any notice to resident . while the Environment Agency have the power to conduct a public consultation , it choose not to do so . its argument be that as planning permission have be grant in the 1950 , no further scrutiny be require . vital issue such as traffic , noise , pollution , and the impact on neighbouring property be give no consideration whatsoever . it can not be right that landfill operator can so easily evade public scrutiny simply by reopen long - dormant site , nor can it be right that my constituent ' view have be totally ignore . while my new clause come too late for Rotherham , it would prevent the right of other community from be trample by ensure that planning permission for landfill site would automatically lapse after 10 year of dormancy . any proposal to resume landfill operation would be require to be subject to full scrutiny through the planning system . my amendment can make a real difference , and I hope Government Front Benchers will support they . I have always be very clear that my top priority be the protection of the Buckinghamshire countryside and all of our farmland for the production of food , not for development . it be through that lens that I rise to speak to a number of amendment that I think will make this horror show of a Bill that tiny bit well . first , I will speak to new clause 44 , which deal with sustainable drainage , and new clause 53 , which would stop development on floodplain . I can think of so many example in my constituency where development have either happen directly on the floodplain or cause horrendous flooding concern in community . in Ickford , the developer ' s expert say that flooding would be a " once in 100 year " eventuality , in an area that flood six time in six month . I stand with the water lap at the top of my wellie before that development be build to try to make a point , and now those home be build , guess what ? on Worminghall Road in Ickford , the house that be there before be regularly flood . likewise , the construction of HS2 have have an impact on flooding in Calvert Green . Calvert Green simply do not flood before HS2 pour concrete into the field next door , and now , guess what ? it do . I also support new clause 45 , which would stop plan permission in case where illegal development take place . I can think of example in my constituency , such as between the village of Askett and Longwick , where illegal development take place , yet the planning inspector have perversely now reward that bad behaviour by give planning permission . bad behaviour should not be reward and that new clause would stop it . other have speak about chalk stream , which be incredibly important in Buckinghamshire , and new clause 87 , which would designate chalk stream as protect site , be incredibly important . I want to spend a couple of minute focus on the big new clause . new clause 43 be about the protection of village . Mid Buckinghamshire be make up of many village , some of which can no long be recognise as village . Haddenham , which be not really a village any more , have grow exponentially and be now struggle for infrastructure , and now see the threat of another 700 home on top . Stoke Mandeville have 650 more home propose , which would see it essentially merge with Wendover . this be unsustainable and challenge the rural identity of Buckinghamshire . I strongly believe that those new protection should be put in place . new clause 51 would stop all solar development and battery storage development on any grade of agricultural land . this inefficient technology will not solve the problem we face as a country . the World Bank itself have say that only one country anywhere in the world be less suited to solar than the United Kingdom , and that be Ireland . it be simply not an efficient technology to solve our energy crisis . small modular reactor and nuclear power be the answer , not trash our countryside with solar and battery storage . finally , new clause 55 be an appeal on the basis of fairness . my constituency have already suffer at the hand of big infrastructure — predominantly High Speed 2 , but other project too . it be about fairness . where community against their will have be force to take these huge , massive infrastructure project — my constituent will live for more than two decade in a construction site — they should be let off some of the other housing target that be come along . they should be let off that further unwanted development , because they have already take enough . there have be many reference to the housing crisis and impassioned speech , which I have welcome . like every other constituency in London , we have a housing crisis on a scale not see before , and it have largely be cause by council house be sell off and not replace . what have happen in my area be a salutary lesson about infrastructure development . crossrail be go through and the Elizabeth line have now go through , so land value price have go through the roof . in central Hayes , I have more than 4 , 500 property be build . we have no lack of planning permission — in fact , we have plan permission come out of our ear — but most local people can not even think of afford what be be build . many have try to become leaseholder , and now they be be hit by huge increase in service charge , and some can not even sell on their property as a result . with new clause 49 , which no one have mention so far , we be ask the Government to look at how we can capture land value . there be a discussion to be have about a land value tax , and I think its time be come . many of those 4 , 500 property be describe as affordable , but they be not affordable to local people . that be why new clause 67 be so important , because we do not want affordable property ; we want social rent property . in fact , I would like simply to give our local authority the resource and to let they start build again , so that we can have place of a decent standard with a rent that people can afford . some 45 year ago , I be on the Greater London Council ' s planning committee , and I be chair of finance , too . by the way , we should have some confidence in local government be able to undertake infrastructure project , because be it not for the GLC — and I as well , actually — build the Thames barrier , most member here would be swim . that show what local government can do . we decry local government too often . I deal with developer throughout that process , and I can say that I have deal with some good developer and also some atrocious one . often they do not deliver , and often they do let we down , and that be why new clause 69 be so important . it merely ask for measure to be put in place during the planning process before a development be properly allow to go ahead : in other word , the mitigation be there . deal have be do in my constituency , such as section 106 deal , that have not really stand up , and the developer have walk away leave we to clear up the mess . new clause 74 , table by the hon . member for South Leicestershire ( Alberto Costa ) — who be not in the Chamber at present — draw attention to a classic example of what almost constitute betrayal on the part of developer who come along , develop the site , take the profit and walk away . in many instance , our local council do not even have the financial resource to challenge they legally . for that reason , I be also attract to new clause 33 , which say , " if a developer have let you down in that way , do not give they any more planning permission . " it give the authority the responsibility of say , " no more : you be not go to do that to we ever again . " in our area , we will , if we be serious , have to go for compulsory purchase order . amendment 68 would take " hope value " out of the CPO calculation , which be significant because in the past too many compulsory purchase have fail because developer have apply hope value , which have escalate the cost and prevent we from acquire property . I wish to speak about my new clause 46 to 48 . the Bill concentrate entirely on remove perceive barrier to development . unfortunately , in the Government ' s view those turn out to be nature and the general public , and to that end the Bill propose a huge reduction in the ability of local resident and councillor to make their voice hear , or to have any meaningful influence over outcome . that be such a pity , because gain consent be not an impossibility . neighbourhood plan be introduce under the coalition Government . do well , they represent the good version of local knowledge and local wish , but there be not so much as a single mention of they in the entire Bill . nothing could reveal more effectively how far the Government ' s focus be from the view of local resident , who be to be treat as " hostile " who must on no account be allow to have their say . for that reason I have table new clause 48 , which would require neighbourhood plan to be take into account in decision making . otherwise , I be not sure why they exist at all . I have also table new clause 46 and 47 , which be direct at the need for local infrastructure . new housing development come with two key promise : that it will bring affordable home for local people , and that the extra fund it bring will mean more civic amenity . both these promise be routinely break . for the last decade , the pace of house building have be rapid in my constituency . resident have be ask to support large - scale development because , they have be tell , it will bring new school and clinic along with it . in reality , they have see the house build but not the service . why do that keep happen ? People usually blame greedy developer , but the real fault usually lie with the Government . incredibly , although a school may in good faith be write into a local plan , sign and seal via a section 106 agreement , that guarantee nothing . when the time come to build the school , the Department for Education will often withdraw its support , and no DfE support mean no school . similarly , an apparently solid commitment to build a new gp surgery be so many empty word if the integrate care board later decide that it do not want to staff it . as budget pressure increase year on year , Government body will decide that it be cheap to cram more child into exist school , and more patient into exist clinic , than it be to add new one . unfortunately , the Bill do little to fix those problem . every time the Government mention support infrastructure , it turn out that they mean big national infrastructure . that be important too , but it do not solve local problem . the Government be view this problem through urban eye . urban centre usually already have sufficient infrastructure in place , but in rural area such as Horsham , settlement be literally double in size , but with the same level of service . as a former local councillor , I have experience at first hand how hard it be to shape development to meet local need when plan authority lack control over so many of the essential factor . no wonder resident object to new housing , when all they see be more strain on service that be already at break point . I hope the Minister will support my amendment . they be intend to improve this Bill , not to sabotage it . local participation be not something to be fear ; rather , it should be embrace . I be pleased to be a member of the Public Bill Committee , and I welcome the opportunity to speak in favour of the Bill . I will also speak to clause 4 and 46 , and to new clause 55 and amendment 1 , which I worry will far frustrate the planning process — the opposite of what the Bill try to achieve . as the Member of Parliament for Barking , I see and hear at first hand the impact of the housing crisis , as other do in their constituency . every week , I meet constituent who share with I their personal and desperate story about overcrowding , year spend in temporary accommodation , poor - quality housing and sky - high rent . let I say this about hope . Hope be demonstrate through the action of a Government who be commit to deliver 1 . 5 million home and who will tackle the housing crisis — a challenge that have be absolutely ignore for decade after decade . supply be one of the fundamental reason why community like mine be face a housing crisis . our planning system be hinder supply in a housing market that be already experience huge demand . it be a planning system that too often block or delay the necessary infrastructure that would support new home be build , particularly as overall business case for house building be intrinsically link to infrastructure delivery . on Second Reading , I speak about the pre - application consultation requirement for NSIP . like other , I have previously highlight the low Thames crossing , so I will not repeat that example , but it be really important that member keep in mind the amount of money that be waste through such process . that be why I be pleased that my hon . friend the Minister consider representation make by I and other in respect of reform the pre - application procedure specifically . I welcome clause 4 — alongside Government amendment 58 , 60 and 67 , and new clause 44 and 45 — which remove the statutory requirement to consult as part of the pre - application stage for NSIP application . the change will mean that delay be reduce and essential infrastructure be consent to fast . that will save up to 12 month from the pre - application stage and million , if not billion , of pound . it could make the difference between whether an infrastructure proposal be viable or not , and between whether home be build in an area or not . to be clear , that do not mean that applicant will avoid a duty to consult . as the Minister outline in his statement to the House on 23 April , local community and local authority will still be able to object to application , provide evidence of any adverse impact , and have their say as part of the post - submission NSIP process . as a vice president of the Local Government Association and a former council leader , I understand all too well how important it be that local people have a voice , but I also understand that a national housing crisis need a national solution , and this Bill be an important step in try to achieve that . at the heart of the debate be a recognition that the housing crisis can not be solve by individual local politician seek to gain political favour by campaign against new home in their area . I know how difficult it be for local authority to develop and agree local plan , but we can not have a situation in which even though 90 % of planning decision be currently make by planning officer , key project that would see infrastructure deliver in this country be hold up , as be the thousand , if not million , of home that we need to deliver . I absolutely support this important Bill , and I look forward — order . I rise to speak to a number of the amendment before we . I spend a lot of time with colleague on the Public Bill Committee , and some of the amendment be very good and some be not so good . I will try to rattle through as many as I can . I support new clause 43 , which stand in the name of my hon . friend the Member for Ruislip , Northwood and Pinner ( David Simmonds ) . our village should have the same protection as our town . village have a unique character across all our constituency , and I be privileged to represent six of they — Brickendon , Hertford Heath , Great Amwell , Stanstead Abbotts , St Margarets and Goffs Oak . I have see a local council that have build probably too much development in a village , and I have see that change the fundamental character of Goffs Oak . we should be try to protect that character , because when people move to village , they do so for the rural way of life and their unique character and identity . we should stop urban sprawl , and we should stop village link together . I support new clause 39 , because we should not be put solar farm on all our agricultural land across the country . I do mind about that , even if it be only 1 % , as the Minister and a number of Labour Members have make out — 1 % be 1 % too much . of course , I support solar panel , but why not put they on the roof of new house and factory ? [ hon . member : " we be . " ] they be not . I do not see the Government come forward to support the sunshine Bill — the New Homes ( Solar Generation ) Bill — which be a private member ' s Bill about put solar panel on new house , so we will not take any lecture from the Labour party on that . I fully support amendment 74 , and I be surprised that the Government be not support it . they have make a number of announcement about " brownfield first " , so why have they not put that in legislation ? why do they not accept this amendment and put that in the Bill if they be so determined to protect our green belt ? I be hesitant about say that , because I do not think they be determined to protect it . I do not think the Government care about the green belt in this country , because if they do , they would amend the Bill to safeguard the green belt and make development " brownfield first " . I also support new clause 46 , and I have speak a number of time about development , particular in my constituency of Broxbourne . as several member have say , development come forward , particularly under outline planning permission , paint in gold . as I have say before , there be to be a new school , a new gp surgery , a new road , a park , lot of community facility and lot of community money , but they be change completely in the full planning application , because the developer have take away all the infrastructure , and there be no new gp surgery , no new school , no new infrastructure and no new community facility . new clause 46 would go some way to make the infrastructure first , which be what our resident want . when planning permission be grant , it be easy for we as politician to support it and to get our resident more in favour of it if the infrastructure be go to come first . if our constituent see hundred of new home build with no infrastructure , particular no new GP surgery , that be when they get really feed up . I would also like to support new clause 63 , which be about plant tree along highway . I think plant tree next to the highway make a street beautiful and make place where people want to live . this Government be focus only on build 1 . 5 million home , which I do not think they will do . they be not focus on design , make the community of the future and make community liveable . my hon . friend be make a wonderful point about the new clause I have table . do he agree with I that this be about improve our environment and reduce pollution , and we need to think about all of that when we consider this Bill ? I thank my hon . friend for that intervention , and of course I agree . she make an important point , and I fully support her new clause . I know she be a keen advocate for this provision in her constituency ; it be about create community . as I have say , this Government be interested only in hit a national target , which I and lot of expert in the industry do not think they will meet . the Government need to think about how they be go to create the community of the future and the place where people want to live . that mean design they to be really nice , get developer around the table and agree design code , and make sure developer really put their money where their mouth be . we should ensure we have tree - line street , because when we go out in our constituency , as I be sure you do in yours , Madam Deputy Speaker , a tree - line street be absolutely beautiful to walk down . it be so much well for the people live there and everybody in the constituency if we make that a reality for lot of our resident . rather than just focus on build a set number of house , we should focus on create the community of the future and the place where our constituent want to live . I rise to speak in favour of amendment 69 and new clause 32 , which be both table by my hon . friend the Member for North East Hertfordshire ( Chris Hinchliff ) . I commend he for his work on the Bill . I believe the Government have get it wrong with their change to nature protection . I appreciate that Ministers will say that they come from a genuine desire to address the housing crisis , but the Bill remove the foundation of our nature law , include the mitigation hierarchy that require developer to avoid harm . nearly every major conservation group oppose the Bill and the Government watchdog , the Office for Environmental Protection , say that it degrade nature protection . amendment 69 offer practical improvement , ensure that environmental delivery plan achieve their stated purpose of make developer pay to offset damage to nature . it ensure that plan result in an improvement to the specific feature be harm , so that the Bill do not give a green light to degrade irreplaceable habitat . the Wild Justice " Lost Nature " report , which be produce by a team include my excellent constituent Sarah Postlethwaite , reveal that housing developer be frequently fail on their legally bind ecological commitment . its survey of 42 new housing development , include two in my constituency , show that only half the ecological enhancement promise , include hedgehog highway , bird box , bat box and plant tree , be actually be deliver . do my hon . friend agree that , while trust developer ’ promise , we must take up - front step to empower and expand Natural England and other authority to hold they to account ? yes , I wholeheartedly agree . amendment 69 also mandate that improvement be deliver before harm occur . without that , we risk specie be push close to extinction before their habitat be replace . bad of all , the Bill still will not deliver the affordable home we desperately need . the explanatory statement to amendment 69 state : " this amendment would require Environmental Delivery plan to set out a timetable for , and thereafter report on , conservation measure , and require improvement of the … status … before development take place in area where Natural England " — think there could be harm . how long do my hon . friend think that that would take in the case of nutrient neutrality and a developer who want to build a new social home ? I do not have a specific answer to that point . I can not give my hon . friend an answer to that . the Government ' s own impact assessment provide no datum that environmental protection be a blocker . nature in the Bill be be scapegoate to distract from a break developer - lead model . we have hear a lot about the failure of developer to build infrastructure , protect nature and provide enough social housing . do that not just show that the status quo be break , and why the Bill be so important and head in the right direction ? the current system be break , absolutely , but I do not think that hard - press planning officer be the problem . I think developer be the problem , and that be the point that I be come on to make . last year , less than 2 % of new home be social rent deliver through the planning system . private developer prioritise maximum profit with high - end luxury build , particularly in constituency such as mine . at the current rate , we would need to build over 5 million home to deliver just 90 , 000 social rent property , yet there be over 1 million people on waiting list . that be why I sign new clause 32 to introduce bind quota for affordable and social rent home . if we be serious , as I believe Labour be , about get family out of temporary accommodation and off waiting list , local authority need the power and funding to lead a new generation of council house building . we also can not ignore the fact that the developer - lead model create conflict with nature , as under - resource council be force to accept whatever site developer propose , regardless of how suitable or unsuitable they be for sustainable development . there be no amount of kill badger or red tape bonfire that will fix that . it be too simplistic to argue that this be a debate of builder versus blocker . the overwhelming majority of planning application be approve , which be why we have more than a million planning permission approve in the past decade that have yet to be build . developer continue to drip feed development into the system , prioritise property that maximise profit and be far from affordable for local people . it be time , therefore , to move away from the fail market dogma and , I believe , to return to labour value . the post - war Labour Government build million of home support by the planning system our party create , and it be time we do it again . I rise to speak to new clause 84 , in my name , and to add my support for new clause 51 on solar and battery energy storage system , and new clause 39 on solar . new clause 84 seek to prohibit the development of battery energy storage system on high - quality agricultural land . in a debate on this topic in this Chamber just last week , we hear from my hon . friend the Member for South Northamptonshire ( Sarah Bool ) that there be 78 GW of battery capacity that be either operational , await construction have receive planning permission or await consideration , which be equal to supply 200 million home — 10 time the number of house we actually have . this be ludicrous . there be numerous question over safety , fire risk , accessibility and proximity to home and community , yet these storage system be replace land that could be use for crop and graze for animal with metal container , eat into our national food security at a time that we should be increase food security and strengthen our food chain . Farmland , as we all know in this place , be irreplaceable — when it be go , it be go . we be see far too many planning application come forward that would risk green - belt land be trash , with the term " grey belt " use to create a grey area that planning inspector will take advantage of . I hope the Government be listen to this point , and those make by other on solar , as well . in the time I have , I want to support a number of other new clause and amendment that I know matter to my constituent , such as new clause 79 , on the duty to co - operate . it be not that we do not expect to have target in constituency such as mine ; we just do not expect to do all the heavy lifting . we do not expect to have to pick up the can and let fail authority such as Labour - lead Birmingham off the hook . the council certainly can not manage Birmingham ' s bin and it can not manage its housing , either ; three year on , none of the property in the Commonwealth village in Perry Barr have be let . it can not be right that housing target in area like Birmingham and London be be place on authority such as Walsall , where our target be be hike up — not least when evidence point to more people want to live in town and centre . surely what we should be do be regenerate these area and building on our brownfield . if we do it sensibly , it will protect the green belt , protect our environment and protect the green and open space that we all love and enjoy . I will also speak in support of new clause 45 , on intentional unauthorised development , something that really irk some of my constituent . they write to I and come to see I about developer or individual who flagrantly breach or ignore planning regulation or permission , create misery for their neighbour . how can someone simply get away with do that sort of thing without repercussion , when other abide by the rule and be leave pick up the piece ? I have already speak of my support for new clause 43 on prevent the merging of village . that be crucial to constituency like mine , which be on the edge of Birmingham , and have community that be at risk of be consume into its urban sprawl . finally , there be so much I could say on Natural England . I worry that the Government be give more power over plan to an unelected quango , while take power away from local authority and councillor . I rise to speak to new clause 58 in my name . it would place a clear environmental and climate duty on Forestry England and its parent body , the Forestry Commission . that be a simple but crucial step that be long overdue . Forestry England manage over 198 , 000 hectare of land across England , and with that come huge untapped potential . estimate suggest that around 100 , 000 hectare of ancient woodland and open habitat such as lowland heath could be restore . restoration at that scale could deliver a fifth of the Government ' s legally bind target to create or restore 500 , 000 hectare of wildlife - rich habitat , as set out in the Environment Act 2021 . that be a massive opportunity that we can not afford to waste . I wonder whether my hon . Friend agree that new clause 56 in my name would also enhance biodiversity . simple act such as provide bird box and swift brick can enhance the environment in the way that my hon . friend suggest . absolutely . we have see a huge loss in biodiversity in this country . as Lord Goldsmith , a Minister in the former Government , say in the other place , we be one of the most nature - deplete country in the world . make small change in planning law will increase biodiversity . the duty on Forestry England be simply too weak . its only exist nature duty be the biodiversity duty , update in the 2021 Act , but it be ineffective . it require Forestry England only to consider biodiversity , not contribute to nature recovery . that be not good enough . it lack clarity , enforceability and , crucially , any tie to our legally bind nature target . as a result , economic interest too often take precedence . Forestry England continue in many case to prioritise commercial forestry over restore biodiverse habitat , include area of ancient woodland . there be no legal climate duty on it , either . its climate work , while good , be entirely at the whim of political feeling at any time . this imbalance be root in history . the Forestry Commission be set up in 1919 to promote timber production , and that economic priority still dominate . it be reinforce by the growth duty in the Deregulation Act 2015 , which require the Forestry Commission and Forestry England to have regard to economic growth . however , as the nature and climate crisis have worsen , the law have fail to catch up . the result be miss opportunity , poor outcome , and action that directly undermine government policy , such as grant funding of invasive specie and the approval of development on deep peat . let we look at the fact . the target for restore damage ancient woodland be 5 , 000 hectare a year , yet under the last government , in 2023 - 24 , just six hectare be restore . that be indefensible . new clause 58 be a straightforward , cost - effective fix . it would rebalance the scale , and give Forestry England a proper legal duty to contribute to nature recovery and climate goal in a way that be in line with the Government ' s target . that mean no more miss change — just clear accountability , well outcome and well value for public money . I urge the Minister to look at new clause 58 and consider give Forestry England the clear mandate that it need in order to deliver for people , nature and the climate . I rise to support new clause 39 . build large - scale solar farm on productive agricultural land be short - sighted . the propose Maen Hir project , class as a nationally significant infrastructure project , will cover over 3 , 000 acre of agricultural land on Ynys M ô n . this be not just any land ; it be land that sustain rural livelihood and underpin the economic and cultural identity of the island . let we not forget why Ynys M ô n be know as M ô n Mam Cymru — the mother of Wales . our island have long be the breadbasket of the nation , play a key role in food production . this land be not just soil ; it be security . replace it with solar panel serve developer , not community . the climate crisis will make suitable agricultural land scarcer , which make protect what we have now even more important . once such land be lose to development , we will not get it back . that be not sustainability but short - term gain at long - term cost . we see serious inconsistency in how planning policy be apply . in Wales , under the planning process , good - quality agricultural land be consider for small - scale development , but when it come to large - scale NSIPs , such as Maen Hir , those protection seem to vanish . the contradiction between Welsh and UK Government policy be unacceptable . there must be a level playing field , regardless of the scale of proposal . we have already feel the impact of energy insecurity in recent year . let we not repeat the same mistake with food security . I ask the Government to rethink their approach ; to protect our agricultural land , our economy and our community ; and to support new clause 39 . I rise to speak in support of new clause 64 in my name . it seek to encourage a great focus on the delivery of affordable housing through rural exception site . I table it to prompt further consideration of the role that this policy can play in address the urgent need for affordable home in rural community . as many who represent area with significant rural population will know , we have a serious housing problem . waiting list grow fast in rural area than anywhere else , and young people be force out of village and town by the lack of affordable housing . parent face old age without the comfort of their child nearby . pub , post office and shop start to struggle for lack of customer . those business close , and a small village and the whole community feel the damage . rural exception site , which be usually find on the outskirt of small settlement , offer a modest but vital solution . develop for the provision of affordable housing to those with a connection to the area , they help sustain local economy , retain local people and skill , and keep family together . because they adjoin village , development take place on a gently human scale ; house radiate out from a historical core , respect the historical and rural situation . these be not soulless , disconnected housing estate . this be development on a scale that ensure that affordable housing be weave into the fabric of our community , not add on . it preserve and recreate the social mix once typical of our town , where , as Nye Bevan remember , " the doctor , the grocer , the butcher and farm labourer all live in the same street " . — [ Official Report , 16 March 1949 ; Vol . 462 , c . 2126 . ] that sort of community be now an exception , but let we reform rural exception site and offer a route back to that ideal . despite the potential , the rural exception site regime be alarmingly underuse . out of 145 local authority in the country , only 25 use rural exception site to deliver affordable home in 2021 - 22 . I thank the hon . member for St Ives ( Andrew George ) , who be not in his place , although he be here for most of the afternoon , for his support for my new clause . Cornwall lead the country by example : 50 % of what be deliver on rural exception site across the whole of England be in Cornwall , and 20 % to 30 % of housing deliver in Cornwall be through rural exception . why do we not equip other area across the country , include my county of Suffolk , to do the same ? increase awareness and engagement will double the output of affordable housing on such site , so let we encourage officer and local authority across the country to take a much close look at the guidance . that will give we a new engagement strategy for delivery partner , who will work with the local community and landowner , which will be crucial . by give rural exception site the prominence they deserve in planning , we increase the supply of affordable home but maintain the unique character and spirit of our rural community . I be hearten to read in the Government ' s response to the consultation on the revise national planning policy framework that further consideration be indeed be give to exception as a means of support rural affordable house . that be welcome , and I be optimistic about the potential for rural exception site to be bring forward in much great number , deliver small - scale affordable housing that be crucial to ensure that the english countryside have vibrant and inclusive community for generation to come . let we put the life back into the heart of rural England . I love tree , which be why I rise to support new clause 63 table in my name . I be sure that all of we in this House recognise the value of tree — not just their ecological importance , but the character and beauty that they bring to our community and high street . I hope that I can demonstrate why amend the rule to allow for sensible guidance on planting tree can help to liberate local authority from their default , over - cautious position , and kick - start a tree - plant revolution . new clause 63 seek to remove some of the ambiguity and misconception surround the regulation of tree plant along highway . the Highways Act 1980 include provision for local authority to maintain free - flow road , but those provision can and have be misinterpret to block tree planting . in particular , the licensing rule establish in section 142 of the Act should be relax to make it easy for local resident to plant tree . too often , even well - mean council impose unrealistic demand . in Windsor and Maidenhead , for example , individual plant tree must pay between £ 500 and £ 1 , 000 in administrative fee and secure £ 10 million in public liability insurance — hardly encouraging . Hampshire county council ' s strict interpretation of section 142 ( 5 ) have lead to a one - metre buffer around utility , block many ideal planting site , despite minimal risk to those service . let I briefly touch on the environmental case . a Woodland Trust report , " the benefit to people of tree outside wood " , find that roadside tree be highly effective at capture pollutant — especially important , give that traffic be a major source of air pollution in the UK . a study by Lancaster University even show that plant silver birch on a terrace street reduce harmful particulate matter inside nearby home by more than 50 % . tree also play a critical role in support biodiversity ; common roadside specie such as lime and flower cherry tree be not only beautiful , but vital for pollinator , help to maintain healthy ecosystem . cheshire be a proud dairy and beef farming county . we have some of the most carbon - efficient cow in the world , and we should be proud of that record , but if we can far improve our environmental impact , that can only be a good thing . in rural area , have tree - line road can help to reduce ammonium level and impact on habitat and the surround environment . again , placement of tree matter ; have more tree near semi - natural habitat that need protection have a great impact than have more tree in establish woodland . of course safety must remain a priority , and not every road be suitable for tree planting , but where space and condition allow , tree can improve road safety . study have show that tree - line street feel narrow , naturally encourage driver to reduce their speed . there be many more benefit that I could speak to , such as improve soil quality , but time be short , so I will finish by touch on the aesthetic benefit of tree near highway . they really do make a difference . they stand the test of time , they add character to the area , they take on cultural significance , and they improve our mental health , our perception and our appreciation of the area in which we live . by amend this Bill through new clause 63 , I hope we can empower local authority to plant the right tree in the right area where there be local support , and I be confident that we will notice the benefit of do so . I be privileged to be a member of the Bill Committee . I start the Committee as a supporter of this legislation , and I rise to speak now as an equally strong supporter of it . many of my constituent in Dartford be also extremely strong supporter of change . their town be regularly paralyse by overspill traffic from the overloaded Dartford crossing . that have be an issue for decade . the need for a new crossing be first suggest as long ago as the 1980 , yet despite a route have be agree in 2017 , development consent be grant only this year . hundred of million have be spend on the process so far . I strongly support the measure to streamline the NSIP regime and give more certainty on large and much - need project such as the low Thames crossing , mention by my hon . friend the Member for Milton Keynes North ( Chris Curtis ) . this Bill will make change to dramatically improve the situation , and that fact must not be lose as we debate the amendment today . I want to speak briefly to three of the new clause that I feel strongly about , cover net zero , sustainability and the social content of new development . a number of proposal have be table — include new clause 73 by my hon . friend the Member for Brent West ( Barry Gardiner ) and other — on the issue of swift brick . that be another issue that be discuss at some length in Committee , and member across the House recognise that we must do more to support vital specie such as swift . I welcome the step that have already be take by the house building industry on this issue , with a voluntary standard sign up to by 28 home builder , account for 100 , 000 home a year , commit to a bird nesting brick or box be instal for every new home build , as well as hedgehog highway as standard for every new development . I hope that Ministers will monitor the effectiveness of this voluntary measure and look at what further step might be take in future . I also support the sentiment in new clause 2 , table by the hon . member for Taunton and Wellington ( Gideon Amos ) , that would require new home to be build to a net zero carbon building standard and include provision for the generation of solar power . I hope , however , that he will welcome the announcement by the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero on Friday that the future home standard , when publish later this year , will require all new home , with a small number of exception , to include solar panel . not everything we want to see happen need to be include on the face of the Bill . I want to finish by speak in favour of new clause 82 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Bournemouth East ( Tom Hayes ) . this would require local authority to assess local play provision and to take reasonable step to improve play sufficiency . as other member have mention , hundred of playground have be lose over the past decade and a half . speak to any young parent and they will tell you the value of play , especially outdoor play , where their child can meet and play safely with other young child . I hope that Ministers will see the strength of feeling on this issue and , whether they accept this new clause or not , do more to help create space to play for family across the country . notwithstanding the amendment and new clause that have be discuss tonight , I be proud to have help move this vital piece of legislation nearer the statute book , and I look forward to the Bill help to get Britain build again . I will get straight to the point : there be two big problem with this Bill . first , there be no social housing target , which mean that it do not do anything to secure delivery of the fit - for - the - future social rent housing that we so desperately need , as colleague across the House have say tonight . secondly , it roll back vital nature protection , effectively give developer carte blanche to bulldoze nature to build luxury home that be accessible only to the rich . Green mp give the Bill a chance on Second Reading — will the hon . Lady give way ? I be sorry , I will not give way because there be so many colleague who still want to speak and we be short of time . Green mp give the Bill a chance on Second Reading , because a secure home be out of reach for too many people . rent be spiral , over 165 , 000 child be live in temporary accommodation and over 1 million people be stick on housing waiting list . it be scandalous that just 3 % of the housing build in the last decade be for social rent , and there be now a wait of more than 100 year for a family - sized social home . I serve on the Bill Committee for the past six - plus week and I work hard to persuade the Government to fix the serious flaw in the Bill , but unfortunately those call have so far be ignore . I be profoundly concerned that , in the glare absence of a social rent housing target , this Government be write a charter for developer ’ greed . that be why Green party mp have table new clause 78 , to push for safe , warm home in the community we love at a truly affordable price . it would require housing plan to set target for build zero - carbon social rent housing base on local need , because without an explicit social housing commitment , big developer will be able to line their pocket even far while ordinary people be still lock out of afford a decent home . I be hugely concerned , as be so many people and the nature organisation that we all trust . by the way , the Bill roll back nature protection . that be why I have propose amendment 24 to 63 , which would delete part 3 of the Bill entirely , because the Government repeatedly block cross - party effort in Committee to amend part 3 to reduce its harmful impact on nature . part 3 be harmful for three key reason . first , it weaken and undermine the requirement for nature protection to be achieve to a high level of scientific certainty . secondly , it create a " pay to pollute " system , allow developer to skip straight to offset , trash the long - establish principle of the mitigation hierarchy — that is , that development should first seek to avoid harm . thirdly , it upend the requirement for compensation to be deliver up front and create wiggle room for developer to avoid pay the true cost of the harm they do . the Government know the nature crisis in our country be severe , yet they repeatedly vote in Committee to reject a raft of constructive amendment to improve part 3 and ensure a win - win for housing and nature . I remind the House that the Labour party ' s 2024 manifesto point out that " the Conservatives have leave Britain one of the most nature - deplete country in the world , " but part 3 will make that terrible situation bad . it be not just the nature organisation that tell we that ; it be the independent expert advice of the Office for Environmental Protection , which say that the Bill constitute a " regression " in environmental law , directly contradict the assertion of the Secretary of State . if minister insist on bulldoze ahead on part 3 , I urge they at the very least to accept my new clause 26 . with cross - party support and wide backing , it seek to match the current degree of certainty for environmental protection . I also strongly support amendment 69 , in the name of the hon . member for North East Hertfordshire ( Chris Hinchliff ) , which would ensure that improvement be deliver before the damage they be compensate for . we can and must both protect nature and build warm , affordable , zero - carbon social rent home . the Government say it be what they want . sadly , it be not what the Bill deliver . without urgent change — order . I call Alex Brewer . the planning system certainly need change , but local people know their area , which be why local planning authority must retain their current power , as outline in amendment 1 . as we have hear , each area be different . in my constituency we be fortunate to have the Loddon and Whitewater chalk stream river nurture ecosystem and sustain biodiversity . the labour manifesto promise " more high - quality , well - design , and sustainable home … create place that increase climate resilience and promote nature recovery . chalk stream in this country be at risk . a third be over - abstract , a third fail their phosphorus target , and a third fail their fish and plant assessment . only 11 have any form of protection . we can not rely on the local nature recovery strategy or the national planning policy framework to protect those ecosystem . these river need bespoke national protection write into primary legislation in this House , as outline in amendment 16 . we can not make reparation after the fact . once chalk aquifer be destroy , they can not be replace . when we say irreplaceable , we mean it . the Government also say they want to make the UK a clean energy superpower . my colleague and I be thrilled that the Liberal Democrats ’ call for solar panel on new home be finally be implement . solar power be a key way to harness the power of the natural environment as we develop infrastructure for our community . support new clause 7 and put solar panel on all new car park would be the natural next step in the right direction . electric vehicle be key to achieve energy independence , but charge inequality be simply hold we back , undermine net zero and energy security . do my hon . friend agree that local authority must be empower to approve safe cross - pavement charging solution without expensive and time - consume street work licence or planning application ? I absolutely agree with my hon . friend on those policy . solar panel do not just soak up the sun and create clean energy ; they also provide shade , protect vehicle and , frankly , over a car park they look quite good while they be do it . we should be prioritise solar panel on the 250 , 000 hectare of rooftop and car park across the country , not on our precious green space . car park be often locate in energy intensive area — near hospital , shopping centre and office building — so it make perfect sense to generate the power right next to where it be need . do the hon . Lady agree that car park and rooftop might be a good place for solar , but this country ' s prime agricultural land be not ? we must find the right balance between agriculture and renewable energy . France have already take the lead by mandate that all car park with more than 80 space must be cover with solar panel . the Bill be the right place for we to implement a similar clause . solar photovoltaic produce about 10 time more energy per square kilometre than biomass . Solar be efficient , clean and ready to go . I be highly concerned that the Bill be overcommitte to biomass , which be not a form of renewable energy . in Britain , we have the knowledge and expertise to develop new housing , energy and infrastructure with nature in mind . the Government be treat this issue as an either / or , but we could and should be much more ambitious and have both . I rise to speak in support of my new clause 93 and amendment 122 to 126 , which aim to tackle the grow electric vehicle charge divide — an issue that be not only about infrastructure , but about fairness , affordability and climate action . nearly four out of every 10 household in the UK do not have a driveway . for many of they , the transition to EVs remain a challenge because bureaucratic barrier mean that they face charge cost that be 10 time more expensive compare with those who can charge their car at home . today , someone with a driveway can charge their ev overnight for as little as 7p per kilowatt - hour , but a driver without one may be force to pay up to 80p at a public charger . that mean over £ 1 , 000 more per year , and renter , resident of terrace home and low - income family bear the brunt . my amendment would cut unnecessary red tape and enable local authority to approve safe cross - pavement charging solution without expensive and time - consume street work licence or planning application . they would give council control while empower resident to take part in the ev transition . that be a vital step in close the gap between those who can charge affordably at home and those who can not . it would help to reduce reliance on overstretch public charger , support grid resilience and build confidence in the ev transition , while unlock green job and cut emission . this be also an issue of energy security . sky - high energy and fuel bill be hurt family and business , fuel the cost of living crisis . Russia ' s assault on Ukraine have reinforce the need to significantly reduce the UK ' s dependence on fossil fuel and to invest in renewable , both to cut energy bill and to deliver energy security . electric vehicle can help million of family to avoid a petrol premium , save on travel cost and strengthen our national security and independence . if we be serious about hit net zero , clean our air and reduce the cost of living , we must make ev adoption a genuinely accessible and affordable option for everyone , not just for those with a driveway . I urge member to support my common - sense , future - face amendment and new clause 93 . I rise to speak to my amendment 145 to 147 and to highlight the importance of new clause 39 , 84 and — if I have time — 83 . my amendment seek to correct a clear oversight in the legislation by extend the energy bill discount to those who live near energy generation site , rather than simply to those who live near energy transmission site . why be it that those who have pylon build near their home be compensate , while those who have solar farm — such as the propose Green Hill development near Grendon , Easton Maudit and Bozeat in my constituency — be not ? that arbitrary distinction expose the Government ' s proposal as not only inconsistent , but fundamentally unfair . such disparity understandably rile resident who must live cheek by jowl with solar farm . by simply extend the energy bill discount , the Government would at least put an arm around those who bear the burden , and would encourage community to embrace renewable . I encourage the Minister to take that forward , but I will not hold my breath . new clause 39 and 84 be essential . the number of propose battery energy storage system be — if member will pardon the pun — explode . they should not be build on high - quality agricultural land . the Government say repeatedly that food security be national security , but any plan that take agricultural land out of produce food lead the Government and this country down a very dangerous path . we must encourage and incentivise farmer to do exactly that : farm . the Government be create an either / or situation by allow battery energy storage system and solar on high - quality agricultural land . I urge member to support these new clause . new clause 53 propose by my hon . friend the Member for Mid Bedfordshire ( Blake Stephenson ) would prevent local planning authority from allow development on functional floodplain . I visit far too many home in my constituency last year that be devastate by flooding . by develop on these know site we be sleepwalk into a crisis . home will be devastate , with homeowner find their home uninsurable , and there will be risk to life . the Government be exacerbate the problem of flooding under this Bill . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . my understanding be that it be hope that new clause 82 have be select to be call for a separate decision of the House . my concern be that the House will be deny the ability to have that separate decision . I thank the right hon . member for his point of order . he will know that the Member who put forward the amendment have the right to withdraw it and have indicate that they will do so . it be at the Chair ' s discretion whether a separate decision be call for , and in this case it be my understanding that the amendment be not go to be move . far to that point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . my understanding be that the Member should shout and make it clear on the Floor of the House that he do not wish the amendment to be put to the vote , so that member can voice their opinion . I thank the right hon . member for his further point of order . if I do not call the Member to move his amendment , and it be not my intention to do so , there will be no separate decision . far to that point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . [ interruption . ] I be entitle to raise a point of order . I appreciate your ruling on this matter , Madam Deputy Speaker , but I ask for clarification because it be my understanding that if we have be inform that an amendment be for separate decision , the Chair ask the Member whose amendment it be whether they want to withdraw it , with the leave of the House , and I have never see that question not be put on the Floor of the House . I thank the hon . member for that point of order . it be simply not the case that it have to be withdraw on the Floor of the House ; this have happen on numerous occasion . I call the Minister . it be a pleasure to rise to respond to what have be a very comprehensive debate . [ interruption . ] a significant number of amendment have be speak to in the course of the debate — [ interruption . ] order . the right hon . member for Stone , Great Wyrley and Penkridge ( Sir Gavin Williamson ) should not be shout at the Clerks in that way . I have make my point . I call the Minister . a significant number of amendment have be speak to in the course of the debate and the House will appreciate that I do not have the time to address the vast majority of they . I will therefore focus on address as many of the key amendment and point of contention as I can . I have be extremely generous in give way in open the debate , but I hope that hon . member will now appreciate that to get through as many point as possible I will not be take further intervention . the debate this evening have evidence support from across the House for nature and for ensure we get the nature restoration fund right . I speak in detail about the Government ' s position in open the debate . as I repeatedly make clear in the Bill Committee and will reiterate this evening , we be listen to the concern raise by hon . member and stakeholder . we be clear that this be the right model to take we forward . we be of course open to way to improve the legislation , however , and on that basis , and to emphasise the point I make early in the debate , we be give serious consideration to way in which we might instil further confidence that part 3 will deliver the outcome we believe it will , such as provide great confidence in the rigour of the overall improvement test , as raise by the OEP and the hon . member for Taunton and Wellington ( Gideon Amos ) . we be also give due consideration to how we can provide for great certainty in the timescale for deliver conservation measure , as raise by my hon . friend the Member for North East Hertfordshire ( Chris Hinchliff ) , as well as seek to clarify the evidential basis and environmental rationale for strategic conservation measure , as raise by my hon . friend the Member for Chesterfield ( Mr Perkins ) . the status quo be not work . the case for move to a more strategic approach be compelling and I look forward to further consideration of part 3 in the other place . turn to the important issue of child ' s play area and play field , I thank the hon . member for Taunton and Wellington for table new clause 16 and my hon . friend the Member for Bournemouth East ( Tom Hayes ) for table new clause 82 . I particularly commend my hon . friend on all that he be do to make the case for high - quality , accessible and inclusive area for play . the Government agree that access to play space be vital , which be why strong protection be already in place . the national planning policy framework be clear that local planning policy should be base on robust and up - to - date assessment of the need for open space , sport and recreation facility , and opportunity for new provision , include place for child ' s play . in December , we strengthen the strong protection already in place in the NPPF by add explicit reference to safeguard " formal play space " . that mean that those facility can be lose only where they be no long need , or where there be a justified and appropriate alternative give the exist policy expectation , safeguard and source of support , we do not believe that it be necessary to add the sort of legislative requirement the amendment would entail . however , I recognise the importance of what the amendment seek to achieve , and the provision of play space be one of the area we be consider as we prepare a new set of national planning policy for decision making , on which we will consult this year . I commit to my hon . friend the Member for Bournemouth East to write to my counterpart at the Department for Education and at the Department for Culture , Media and Sport to ensure that we be act across Government to increase space for play . I will work with he to broker the necessary ministerial meeting that he seek . with those assurance , I hope that he and the hon . member for Taunton and Wellington will feel able to withdraw their amendment . turn to swift brick , which be mention several time during the debate , we recognise that they be a vital mean of arrest the long - term decline of the breeding swift population . while swift brick coverage be increase , with nearly 30 house builder have make a voluntary commitment to install one for every new home build , the Government want to do more to drive up swift brick installation . however , there be a principled difference of opinion as to the good way to achieve that objective . although I understand why many be attract to the argument that the only way to make a significant difference to swift number and other red - list specie be to mandate the incorporation of swift brick into all new - build property , through building regulation or free - stand legislation , I take a different view . in all sincerity , I do not believe that amend building regulation be the most appropriate way to secure the outcome that the House as a whole seek . as building regulation be mandatory , go down that route would compel developer to install swift brick in all new building , irrespective of what they be or where they be locate . on that point , will the Minister give way ? no , I will not . contrary to what hon . member might assume , amend building regulation be not a quick fix . it can take year for change to feed through into building design and we do not think that swift can afford to wait that long . for those and other reason , I remain of the view that change national planning policy be the more effective route to secure swift brick as a standard feature of the vast majority of new building . as the House will be aware , the revise NPPF publish in December expect development to incorporate feature that support priority or threaten specie such as swift , bat and hedgehog . however , as I have make clear to many hon . member over recent month , we have always intend to go far . we be specifically give consideration to use a new suite of national policy for decision make to require swift brick to be incorporate into new building , unless there be compelling reason that preclude their use or that would make they ineffective . that would significantly strengthen the planning policy expectation already in place , so that , for example , we would expect to see at least one swift brick in all new brick - build house . I believe that be the good way we can achieve the objective of see swift brick use as widely as possible , as the use and placement of swift brick can be integrate into the planning process and become a standard expectation in the design of new development . we will be consult on a new set of national policy for decision making later this year . so that no one can be in any doubt about our intention here , the Government have today publish new planning practice guidance set out how swift brick be expect to be use in new development , as an interim step ahead of the plan consultation . we also hear from several hon . member who want to see strong protection put in place for chalk stream . the measure in the Bill will not weaken exist protection for those valuable area for nature , but the Government continue to give careful consideration to this matter in the context of ongoing reform to national planning policy and I be more than happy to engage with hon . member from across the House on it . I turn to new clause 1 , table by the hon . member for Taunton and Wellington , which would have the effect of prevent the Government from implement a national scheme of delegation for plan committee . put simply , it be a wreck amendment , and the Government can not accept it for the follow reason . planning be principally a local activity , and the Government recognise the vital role that plan committee play . however , we must ensure that they operate as effectively as possible . at present , every council have its own scheme of delegation , and 96 % of planning decision in England be already make by planning officer . however , there be significant variation across the country , which create risk and uncertainty in the system . as such , we believe that there be a robust case for introduce a national scheme of delegation . since Committee stage , when we debate these issue at length , the Government have publish a technical consultation set out our detailed plan for reform in this area . I encourage hon . member to read that consultation , in which we propose splitting planning application into two tier , provide certainty about what decision will be delegate to expert officer and at the same time ensure that councillor can continue to focus on the most significant proposal for housing and commercial development to allow for effective local and democratic oversight of the most controversial application where warrant . I believe that if member engage with the detail of that conversation , they will recognise that what be be propose be not an attempt to ride roughshod over local democracy , but a sensible and proportionate change design to improve certainty and decision making in the planning system . however , on the fundamental point of whether we should introduce a national scheme of delegation , the Government ' s position be an unequivocal yes . for that reason , I can not accept the new clause in question . I turn briefly to the amendment table by my hon . friend the Member for Hackney South and Shoreditch ( Dame Meg Hillier ) and the hon . member for Taunton and Wellington relate to the Bill ' s new reflective amendment procedure for national policy statement . I reassure the House that our change be not about erode parliamentary scrutiny , but about ensure that scrutiny be proportionate to the change be make , and we absolutely recognise the value that such scrutiny bring to get important change right . as I have discuss with my hon . friend the Member for Hackney South and Shoreditch , several safeguard be in place that will ensure parliamentary oversight be protect ; I will happily restate they for the record . where we intend to make a reflective amendment , a statement will be lay in Parliament announce a review and we will write to the relevant Select Committee . minister will make themselves available to speak to that Committee as far as be practicable , and we will take into account the view of any Select Committee report publish during the consultation period . let I be very clear in response : the Government recognise the importance of Ministers attend Committee to explain the propose change , and I be happy to tell my hon . friend that the Deputy Prime Minister and I will write to colleague to ensure that be fully and clearly understand . importantly , the npps as amend must be lay in Parliament for 21 day , during which time this House may resolve that the amendment should not be proceed with . Parliament retain the ultimate say over whether a change should be enact . I hope that clarify the process and reassure my hon . friend and the House more widely . finally , I will address some of the amendment about provision of affordable and social housing , include new clause 32 and 50 , table by my hon . friend the Members for North East Hertfordshire ( Chris Hinchliff ) and for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green ( Florence Eshalomi ) . the Government be commit to the big generational uplift in social and affordable housing , and in our first 10 month in office we have put our money where our mouth be . we have announce new £ 800 million in - year funding to top up the 2021 - 26 affordable home programme , and we announce in the spring statement an immediate injection of £ 2 billion in new capital investment to act as a bridge to the future grant programme , which be to be announce this week in the spending review . to date , we have not choose to define a target for social and affordable housing , and there be good reason why that be the case , include the fact that the sector have face significant financial constraint and need regulatory certainty . that be make bad by many of the completely irresponsible and unacceptable decision make by the opposition when they be in government over the past 14 year . it would not be appropriate to set a target until after the sector be stabilise , know what be require and , importantly , be clear on what investment will be available to support delivery , which will become apparent only after the spending review . a range of complex factor contribute to the number of affordable house come forward in this country and impact on the sector ' s ability to build more home , but we will of course keep that matter under review . I will very briefly mention the green belt and the protection of village . as the House will be aware , we recently publish guidance in relation to the green belt . none of the long - stand green - belt purpose be touch by those change , include the purpose of preclude the merging of town . the guidance do not remove those appropriate and relevant protection from land around village , and any green - belt land — include land in , or near , village — that conflict with the relevant purpose would not be identify as grey belt . to conclude , I once again thank all hon . member who have participate in today ' s debate for their contribution . the Government will continue to reflect on the argument that have be make . I urge the House to support the target amendment to this Bill that the Government have propose , to ensure we can realise its full potential . question put and agree to . new clause 69 accordingly read a second time . debate interrupt ( Programme Order , this day ) . the Deputy Speaker put forthwith the Questions necessary for the disposal of the business to be conclude at that time ( Standing Order no . 83e ) . new clause 69 add to the Bill . New Clause 39 - prohibition of solar development on high - quality agricultural land " no permission may be grant for the building or installation of provision for solar power generation where the development would involve — ( a ) the building on or development of agricultural land at grade 1 , 2 , or 3a , and ( b ) building or installation at ground - level . " — ( Paul Holmes . ) this new clause would prohibit the development of solar power generation on high quality agricultural land . bring up . question put , that the clause be add to the Bill . Shockat Adam Jim Allister Lee Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell James Cartlidge James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock Jeremy Corbyn Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Ann davy Mims davy David Davis Charlie Dewhirst Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Rosie Duffield Iain Duncan Smith Luke Evans Nigel Farage Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier John Glen Helen Grant Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Adnan Hussain Bernard Jenkin Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Ayoub Khan Danny Kruger Ben Lake Katie Lam John Lamont Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Jerome Mayhew James McMurdock Esther McVey Llinos Medi Iqbal Mohamed Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Chris Philp Sarah Pochin Shivani Raja Jack Rankin Joe Robertson Liz Saville - Roberts Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Greg Smith Andrew Snowden Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Graham Stuart Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers John Whittingdale Gavin Williamson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright James Wild Rebecca Smith Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Luke Akehurst Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Lorraine Beavers torsten Bell Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Feryal Clark Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Deirdre Costigan Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Chris Curtis Nicholas Dakin Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Colum Eastwood Lauren Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove John Healey Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Stephen Morgan Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Melanie Onn Simon Opher Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Mike Reader Joani Reid Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Robin Swann Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Dan Tomlinson Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Imogen Walker Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Martin McCluskey Christian Wakeford the House divide : Ayes 113 , Noes 335 . question accordingly negative . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I wonder if you could fill a gap in my ignorance — I be sure you can . early today , Mr Speaker announce that the hon . member for Bournemouth East ( Tom Hayes ) , whom I will call my hon . friend because he be my county neighbour , would not move new clause 82 , to which I be a signatory . Mr Speaker have say that the new clause would be subject to a separate decision , and anybody would interpret that to mean that there would be a vote on it . my understanding , from previous experience , be that when the principal signatory to an amendment decide not to move it , any hon . or right hon . member who be a co - signatory to it be at liberty to move it , to test the will of the House . it may well be that the Standing Orders have change , and that I be negligent of that knowledge . if that be the case , I apologise to you , Madam Deputy Speaker , but what have change ? I thank the hon . member for his point of order . have he be in the Chamber early , he would have hear several early point of order on this question . he would also have hear I say that a decision on the new clause would be at the discretion of the Chair , and Mr Speaker indicate early that there would be a separate decision . the hon . member for Bournemouth East ( Tom Hayes ) , who table new clause 82 , indicate that he wish to withdraw it . a decision on it be at the discretion of the Chair . if the hon . member for North Dorset ( Simon Hoare ) wish to question that far , he be at liberty to do so . far to that point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . [ interruption . ] Labour Members may chunter , but I have a right to raise a point of order on process in this House . Madam Deputy Speaker , may I ask for your guidance ? I be a relatively new member , but it be my — [ interruption . ] I want to raise a point of order , and it be not up to they to say I can not . new clause 82 have be sign by over 60 member of this House . through the usual channel , I be tell , as shadow Minister , as be other , that the Speaker ' s Office have select the new clause for a separate decision . over 60 member have sign the new clause , and my understanding of precedent in this House be that any Member who have sign it can move it . it be a new and dangerous precedent if member can indicate before the debate that they wish to withdraw a new clause , and other member who have sign it be not give the choice to move it . may I seek your clarification , Madam Deputy Speaker ? it seem highly unusual that over 60 member have sign the new clause but none of they can move it , especially when we be give an indication that it would be subject to a separate decision on the Floor of the House . I thank the hon . member for his further point of order on this subject . I have provide the clarity for which he ask . the decision be at the discretion of the Chair . New Clause 43 - protection of village " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within six month of the passing of this Act , issue guidance for local planning authority , or update any relevant exist guidance , relate to the protection of village . ( 2 ) any guidance issue under this section must provide village with equivalent protection , so far as be appropriate , as be provide for town in relation to — ( a ) prevent village from merge into one another , ( b ) prevent village merge into town , and ( c ) preserve the setting and special character of historic village . " — ( Paul Holmes . ) this new clause would provide exist village with protection equivalent to that currently provide to town under the NPPF . bring up . question put , that the clause be add to the Bill . Shockat Adam Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Saqib Bhatti Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Danny Chambers James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Mims Davies David Davis Bobby Dean Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Rosie Duffield Iain Duncan Smith Luke Evans Nigel Farage Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Andrew George Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Helen Grant Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Adnan Hussain Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Ayoub Khan Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Julian Lewis Julia Lopez James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Brian Mathew Jerome Mayhew Charlie Maynard James McMurdock Esther McVey Calum Miller John Milne Iqbal Mohamed Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Sarah Pochin Shivani Raja Jack Rankin Joe Robertson Anna Sabine Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Caroline Voaden John Whittingdale Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young James Wild Rebecca Smith Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Luke Akehurst Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Lorraine Beavers torsten Bell Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Feryal Clark Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Deirdre Costigan Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Chris Curtis Nicholas Dakin Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Colum Eastwood Lauren Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove John Healey Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Stephen Morgan Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Melanie Onn Simon Opher Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Mike Reader Joani Reid Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Dan Tomlinson Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Imogen Walker Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Martin McCluskey Christian Wakeford the House divide : Ayes 167 , Noes 334 . question accordingly negative . clause 31 - Procedure for certain order and scheme Amendment make : 93 , page 47 , line 37 , leave out subsection ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) and insert — " ( 3 ) in section 326 ( revocation and variation of scheme and order ) — ( a ) in subsection ( 2 ) — ( i ) after " an order " insert " or scheme " ; ( ii ) after " section " insert " 10 , " ; ( iii ) after " 14b , " insert " 16 , " ; ( iv ) after " 27 , " insert " 106 ( 3 ) , " ; ( v ) after " order " insert " or scheme " ; ( vi ) after " subsequent order " insert " or scheme " ; ( b ) after subsection ( 2 ) insert — " ( 2A ) subsection ( 2 ) do not apply to an order or scheme under section 10 , 16 or 106 ( 3 ) make or confirm by the Welsh Ministers ( but see section 325 ( 1A ) ) . " ; ( c ) in subsection ( 6 ) , before " 14 , " insert " 10 , " . " . — ( Matthew Pennycook . ) this amendment exclude instrument make by the Welsh Ministers from a consequential amendment in this clause . clause 41 - deem consent under marine licence Amendments make : 94 , page 54 , line 22 , leave out from begin to end of line 19 on page 55 and insert — " ( 1 ) an order of the Secretary of State under section 1 or 3 may include provision deem a marine licence to have be grant by the Secretary of State for activity specify in the order ( be activity for which the Secretary of State be the appropriate licensing authority ) . ( 2 ) activity specify under subsection ( 1 ) must be carry out wholly in one or more of these area — ( a ) England ; ( b ) water adjacent to England up to the seaward limit of the territorial sea ; ( c ) an exclusive economic zone , except any part of an exclusive economic zone in relation to which the Scottish Ministers have function ; ( d ) a renewable Energy Zone , except any part of a renewable Energy Zone in relation to which the Scottish Ministers have function ; ( e ) an area designate under section 1 ( 7 ) of the Continental Shelf Act 1964 , except any part of that area which be within a part of an exclusive economic zone or renewable Energy Zone in relation to which the Scottish Ministers have function . ( 3 ) an order of the Welsh Ministers under section 1 or 3 may include provision deem a marine licence to have be grant by the Welsh Ministers for activity specify in the order ( be activity for which the Welsh Ministers be the appropriate licensing authority ) . ( 4 ) an order include provision under subsection ( 1 ) or ( 3 ) may also include provision — ( a ) deeming the licence to have be grant subject to such condition as may be specify in the order ; ( b ) deeming any such condition to have be attach to the marine licence by the Secretary of State or ( as the case may be ) the Welsh Ministers under Part 4 of the MCAA 2009 . ( 4A ) if an order include provision of the sort mention in paragraph ( a ) and ( b ) of subsection ( 4 ) , section 68 ( notice of application ) and 69 ( 3 ) and ( 5 ) ( representation ) of the MCAA 2009 do not apply in relation to the deem marine licence . " this amendment rework the provision for deem marine licence in Transport and Works Act order so that the Secretary of State and the Welsh Ministers may only authorise activity for which they be responsible under the marine licensing legislation . amendment 95 , page 55 , line 22 , leave out " Marine and Coastal Access Act " and insert " MCAA " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 97 . amendment 96 , page 55 , line 24 , leave out " Marine and Coastal Access Act " and insert " MCAA " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 97 . amendment 97 , page 55 , line 26 , at end insert — " ' the MCAA 2009 ' mean the Marine and Coastal Access Act 2009 ; ' marine licence ' mean a marine licence under Part 4 of the MCAA 2009 ; " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 94 . amendment 98 , page 55 , line 29 , leave out " Marine and Coastal Access Act " and insert " MCAA " . — ( Matthew Pennycook . ) this amendment be consequential on Amendment 97 . clause 51 - Spatial development strategiesclause 51 Amendment propose : 15 , page 72 , line 29 , at end insert — " ( 2A ) a spatial development strategy must have regard to the need to provide 150 , 000 new social home nationally a year . " — ( Gideon Amos . ) question put , that the amendment be make . Shockat Adam Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Steffan Aquarone Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Gregory Campbell Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael David Chadwick Danny Chambers Ellie chown Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Adam Dance Steve Darling Bobby Dean Carla Denyer Lee Dillon Rosie Duffield Nigel Farage Tim Farron Richard Foord z ö e Franklin Andrew George Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Monica Harding Pippa Heylings Adnan Hussain Liz Jarvis Ayoub Khan Paul Kohler James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Mike Martin Brian Mathew James McMurdock Calum Miller John Milne Iqbal Mohamed Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tessa Munt Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Manuela Perteghella Al Pinkerton Sarah Pochin Adrian Ramsay Anna Sabine Jim Shannon Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Ian Sollom Jamie Stone Robin Swann Luke Taylor Richard Tice Caroline Voaden Max Wilkinson Munira Wilson Martin Wrigley Claire Young will Forster Charlie Maynard Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Luke Akehurst Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Lorraine Beavers torsten Bell Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Feryal Clark Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Deirdre Costigan Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Chris Curtis Nicholas Dakin Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Josh Dean Kate Dearden Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Angela Eagle Lauren Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove John Healey Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Stephen Morgan Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Melanie Onn Simon Opher Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Mike Reader Joani Reid Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Dan Tomlinson Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Imogen Walker Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Martin McCluskey Christian Wakeford the House divide : Ayes 73 , Noes 323 . question accordingly negative . clause 56 - other requirement for an EDP Amendment make : 99 , page 92 , line 36 , at end insert " and ( 2A ) " . — ( Matthew Pennycook . ) this amendment be consequential on Amendment 100 . Amendment propose : 69 , page 93 , line 8 , at end insert — " ( 10 ) an EDP must include a schedule set out the timetable for the implementation of each conservation measure and for the reporting of result . ( 11 ) a schedule include under subsection ( 10 ) must ensure that , where the development to which the EDP apply be in Natural England ' s opinion likely to cause significant environmental damage , the corresponding conservation measure result in an improvement in the conservation status of the identify feature prior to the damage be cause . ( 12 ) in prepare a schedule under subsection ( 10 ) Natural England must have regard to the principle that enhancement should be deliver in advance of harm . " — ( Chris Hinchliff . ) this amendment would require Environmental Delivery plan to set out a timetable for , and thereafter report on , conservation measure , and require improvement of the conservation status of specified feature before development take place in area where Natural England consider development could cause significant environmental damage . question put , that the amendment be make . Diane Abbott Shockat Adam Gideon Amos Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Harriett Baldwin Peter Bedford Apsana Begum Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Saqib Bhatti Olivia Blake Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Richard Burgon Ian Byrne Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Danny Chambers Ellie chown James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Mims Davies Bobby Dean Carla Denyer Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Rosie Duffield Iain Duncan Smith Luke Evans Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Andrew George Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Helen Grant Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Chris Hinchliff Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Adnan Hussain Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Dr Caroline Johnson Kim Johnson Alicia Kearns Ayoub Khan Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Ian Lavery Brian Leishman Clive Lewis Julian Lewis Julia Lopez James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Rachael Maskell Brian Mathew Jerome Mayhew Charlie Maynard Andy McDonald John Martin McDonnell Esther McVey Calum Miller John Milne Iqbal Mohamed Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Tessa Munt Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Kate Osborne Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Shivani Raja Adrian Ramsay Jack Rankin Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Joe Robertson Anna Sabine Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Graham Stuart Zarah Sultana Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Nick Timothy Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Caroline Voaden John Whittingdale Nadia Whittome James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young Jeremy Corbyn Neil Duncan - Jordan Jack Abbott Luke Akehurst Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Lee Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Lorraine Beavers torsten Bell Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair carn Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Feryal Clark Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Deirdre Costigan Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Chris Curtis Nicholas Dakin Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Josh Dean Kate Dearden Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Angela Eagle Lauren Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Nigel Farage Linsey Farnsworth Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove John Healey Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume Patrick Hurley Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Andrew Lewin Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Amanda Martin Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Chris McDonald Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin James McMurdock Frank McNally Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Perran Moon Stephen Morgan Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Melanie Onn Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Sarah Pochin Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Mike Reader Joani Reid Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Jake Richards Lucy Rigby Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Richard Tice Stephen Timms Dan Tomlinson Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Imogen Walker Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Michael Wheeler Jo White Katie White David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Christian Wakeford Martin McCluskey the House divide : Ayes 180 , Noes 307 . question accordingly negative . clause 57 - Preparation of EDP by Natural England Amendments make : 100 , page 93 , line 19 , at end insert — " ( 2A ) in prepare an EDP that specify as the development area an area that include water adjacent to England ( see section 53 ( 2 ) ( b ) ) , Natural England must also have regard to — ( a ) any marine plan , ( b ) the marine policy statement , and ( c ) the UK Marine Strategy , so far as Natural England consider they to be relevant . " . this amendment require Natural England to have regard to the marine policy statement , marine plan and the UK Marine Strategy when it prepare an EDP that cover development in the territorial sea . amendment 101 , page 93 , line 20 , leave out " subsection ( 2 ) " and insert " subsection ( 2 ) and ( 2A ) " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 100 . Amendment 102 , page 93 , line 29 , at end insert — " ' marine plan ' have the meaning give in section 51 ( 3 ) of the Marine and Coastal Access Act 2009 ; ' marine policy statement ' have the same meaning as in the Marine and Coastal Access Act 2009 ( see section 44 of that Act ) ; ' the UK Marine Strategy ' mean the strategy develop under the Marine Strategy Regulations 2010 ( S . I . 2010 / 1627 ) . " . — ( Matthew Pennycook . ) this amendment be consequential on Amendment 100 . clause 58 - Consultation on draft EDP Amendments make : 103 , page 94 , line 2 , at end insert — " ( can ) any local highway authority for an area that be wholly or partly within the development area , ( cb ) any strategic highway company for an area that be wholly or partly within the development area , ( cc ) Network Rail Limited , if the development area include all or part of its network ; " . this amendment add local highway authority , strategic highway company and Network Rail Limited to the list of person who must be consult when Natural England have prepare a draft environmental delivery plan . Amendment 104 , page 94 , line 25 , at end insert — " ' local highway authority ' have the meaning give by section 329 ( 1 ) of the Highways Act 1980 ; " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 103 . amendment 105 , page 94 , line 30 , at end insert — " ' network ' have the meaning give by section 83 ( 1 ) of the Railways Act 1993 ; ' strategic highway company ' have the meaning give by section 329 ( 1 ) of the Highways Act 1980 . " . — ( Matthew Pennycook . ) this amendment be consequential on Amendment 103 . clause 64 - challenge an EDP Amendment make : 106 , page 98 , line 26 , leave out " before the end of " and insert " during " . — ( Matthew Pennycook . ) this amendment clarify that a challenge to an EDP ( or anything do or not do in the course of prepare an EDP ) can not be bring before the day on which the EDP be publish . clause 65 - commitment to pay the nature restoration levy Amendments make : 107 , page 100 , line 3 , leave out " or the Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981 " and insert " , the Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981 or the Marine and Coastal Access Act 2009 " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 109 . amendment 108 , page 100 , line 25 , at end insert — " ( ba ) in a case where the feature be a protect feature of a marine conservation zone , the developer do not have the option of satisfy the public authority determine an application relate to the development of the matter mention in section 126 ( 6 ) or ( 7 ) of the Marine and Coastal Access Act 2009 instead of pay the levy ; " . — ( Matthew Pennycook . ) this amendment be consequential on Amendment 109 . clause 91 - Interpretation Amendments make : 115 , page 118 , line 40 , at end insert — " ( d ) a condition that may be attach to a marine licence under section 71 ( 1 ) ( b ) of the Marine and Coastal Access Act 2009 , or ( e ) a condition that may be attach to a harbour revision order under section 14 of the Harbours Act 1964 or a harbour empowerment order under section 16 of that Act ; " . this amendment , which be partly consequential on Amendment 116 , add condition attach to marine licence and condition attach to harbour order to the definition of " condition of development " . Amendment 116 , page 119 , line 6 , at end insert " , and ( c ) licensable marine activity , within the meaning of Part 4 of the Marine and Coastal Access Act 2009 ( see section 66 of that Act ) ; " . this amendment amend the definition of development so as to include marine activity that must be consent under Part 4 of the Marine and Coastal Access Act 2009 ( for example offshore construction work ) . amendment 117 , page 119 , line 20 , at end insert — " ' marine conservation zone ' mean an area designate as such under section 116 of the Marine and Coastal Access Act 2009 ; " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 118 . amendment 118 , page 119 , line 27 , at end insert " or ( d ) a marine conservation zone , " . this amendment , which be largely consequential on Amendment 116 , add marine conservation zone to the definition of protect site , so that an EDP can make provision for the protection of mcz when it cover development in territorial water . Amendment 119 , page 119 , line 30 , leave out " geological or physiographical feature " and insert " feature of geological , geomorphological or physiographical interest " . — ( Matthew Pennycook . ) this amendment , which be consequential on Amendment 118 , reflect the ground for designate an area as a marine conservation zone in section 117 ( 1 ) of the Marine and Coastal Access Act 2009 , which include conserve not only marine flora , fauna and habitat but also " feature of geological or geomorphological interest " . schedule 4 - environmental delivery plan : effect on environmental obligation Amendments make : 109 , page 162 , line 17 , at end insert — " protect site : marine conservation zone 2A ( 1 ) sub - paragraph ( 2 ) apply where — ( a ) an environmental feature identify in an EDP in accordance with section 54 ( 1 ) ( a ) be a protect feature of a marine conservation zone , and ( b ) a developer have commit to pay , in respect of a development , such amount of the nature restoration levy set out in a charge schedule to the EDP as apply in relation to an environmental impact of the development on that protect feature . ( 2 ) the environmental impact of the development on the protect feature be to be disregard for the purpose of section 126 of the Marine and Coastal Access Act 2009 ( duty of public authority in relation to certain decision ) . " this amendment , which be consequential on Amendment 116 , mean that if a developer for a development affect a marine conservation zone pay the levy , the effect of the development on protect feature in that zone be disregard for the purpose of the duty of public authority set out in section 126 of the Marine and Coastal Access Act 2009 . amendment 110 , page 162 , line 29 , leave out " by Natural England to the developer " and insert " to the developer by the relevant licensing body ( see regulation 58 ( 4A ) of those Regulations ) " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 113 . amendment 111 , page 162 , line 41 , leave out " by Natural England to the developer " and insert " to the developer by the appropriate authority ( see section 16 ( 8a ) and ( 9 ) of that Act ) " . — ( Matthew Pennycook . ) this amendment be largely consequential on Amendment 116 . it reflect the fact that species licence under the Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981 relate to marine animal be grant by the Marine Management Organisation . schedule 6 - amendment relate to part 3 amendment make : 112 , page 177 , line 13 , after " 55 " insert " ( 1 ) " . this amendment correct a minor drafting error so as to match the cross - reference in the new paragraph ( 4A ) to that in regulation 58 ( 2 ) ( so both be to " regulation 55 ( 1 ) " ) . amendment 113 , page 177 , line 15 , leave out " Natural England " and insert " — ( a ) so far as the licence relate to the restrict English inshore region , the Marine Management Organisation ; and ( b ) otherwise , Natural England . " . the effect of this amendment be that where developer for development in the territorial sea be treat ( by paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to the Bill ) as have be grant a species licence under regulation 55 of the Habitats Regulations , the licensing authority be the Marine Management Organisation rather than Natural England . amendment 114 , page 177 , line 15 , at end insert — " ( da ) in paragraph ( 6 ) , for " paragraph ( 2 ) " substitute " this regulation " ; " . — ( Matthew Pennycook . ) this amendment be consequential on Amendment 113 . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Financial Services and Markets that the draft Payment Services and Payment Accounts ( Contract Termination ) ( Amendment ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 28 April , be approve . — ( Gerald Jones . ) question agree to . Breast Cancer screening : Bassetlaw Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Gerald Jones . ) the first know description of breast cancer date back to beyond 3 , 000 BC . hippocrate describe the progressive stage of breast cancer in 400 BC , when he outline his theory for its cause . although breast cancer mortality rate have be decrease since the 1970 , approximately 11 , 400 woman and 85 man die of breast cancer every year . that be 32 death from breast cancer every single day of the week . we all know someone who have be impact by breast cancer — a mother , a sister , a granny , a daughter , a colleague or a friend . for I that be my nan , the matriarch of the family , a character , fit and healthy , who go out daily to clean other people ' s house . we lose she when I be 19 year old . she be too embarrassed to show her breast to her doctor , and explain away her lump as an injury cause by fall off a window ledge when clean window . by the time she finally go to the doctor , it be too late , and she die month later . we lose she too soon . perhaps it be also fear that keep she away ; two of her sister be also take by breast cancer . that be such a familiar story . so many woman be treat for breast cancer tell of family member — aunt , sister , mother , grandmother — who have be through the same experience . my nan be of jewish descent . it be now know that jewish people of ashkenazi heritage have a one in 40 chance of carry the BRCA gene mutation , which mean a much high chance of develop breast cancer — a one in two chance before the age of 70 . for the sake of my family , I be currently have genetic screening to check that , if it be the familial cause , it have not be pass down . I urge every woman of jewish heritage to do the same . screening be provide free by the NHS and can be do in the home . medical testing of the BRCA1 gene be effective , but polygenic risk factor mean that if someone have a combination of gene , they might be more at risk of breast cancer . do my hon . friend think we should be roll out polygenic risk testing so that , with a well understanding of their gene , woman know how often they should have their breast check ? my hon . friend make a valuable point , and I hope that the Minister have take heed of it . I be diagnose and go through the journey of early - stage breast cancer during the covid pandemic . do my hon . friend agree that it be important that the system understand that breast cancer can present in young woman , not just in old woman ? I thank my hon . friend for that point . I have sympathy for her experience and hope that she be now fully recover . yes , we must be conscious that woman of all age could have breast cancer , and awareness must be raise so that woman continue to check their breast for it . what I do know be this : breast cancer screening and early detection save life . the early that breast cancer be detect , the simple and more effective the treatment be likely to be . between the age of 50 and 70 , on a three - year cycle , woman will get a letter in the post invite they in for screen . a chance conversation last autumn with a local gp alert I to his concern that the number of woman attend Bassetlaw hospital for screen appointment have drop dramatically . I ask the chief executive of our local hospital trust to investigate that , and he quickly come back with some worrying figure show that attendance have drop in recent time to below 50 % of woman invite for screening . this be either due to an appointment cancellation or a no - show on the day . NHS England datum show that prior to the coronavirus pandemic 78 % of woman in Bassetlaw and Doncaster be go for screening . the decline be dramatic and be not unique to Bassetlaw . I commend the hon . Lady for bring this debate forward . I speak to she before the debate and her concern be those of we all , and that be why we be here — to try to make life well . across England , Wales and Northern Ireland breast screen coverage remain relatively steady over time until 2019 , at an average of 76 % , but follow covid in 2019 , breast screening coverage have decrease to 65 % by 2022 . the covid impact on breast screening be entirely worrying , as be the fact that most trust be not back to pre - covid screen test rate . do the hon . Lady agree that we need a co - ordinate approach throughout the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland to enhance screening rate ? we look forward to hear the Minister ' s response . I thank the hon . gentleman for his contribution and agree that it be worry that only half of the trust in England be meet the national target of 70 % of eligible woman go for their screening , but next year we hit a milestone in that it be estimate that almost 1 million woman will be invite for screening . I welcome the fact that NHS England be actively encourage more woman to book and attend their screening . will the Minister provide more detail on that ? to be honest , in Bassetlaw I can not wait for a national operation to kick in . last month I launch the " bassetlaw love your boob , get they check " campaign , support local woman and encourage woman to go for their breast screening . I pay tribute to the wonderful bassetlaw woman who have be active in the campaign — woman such as Liz Rew and Maria Charlesworth , who find lump in their breast and go for their screening . Barbara Baldwin and Claire Previn join my campaign as they have have friend take too soon by breast cancer ; I do not want anyone else to have to go through that . Lynn Dixon from Bassetlaw have breast cancer in her family and be first diagnose at the age of 36 after find a lump , and she have just recently find another lump and be screen . this week she be face further treatment for breast cancer . my thought and love be with Lynn right now . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] Jenny Bailey be a former NHS nurse and midwife in Bassetlaw who have her breast cancer identify follow routine screening . the woman from Bassetlaw be amazing , use their life experience to join the fighting spirit , encourage their friend , family and neighbour to get screen . I thank the hon . Lady very much for introduce this debate , because it be so important . I could not agree more that screening be incredibly important , but we also need to make sure that modern radiotherapy treatment be available for those whose breast cancer have be detect . NHS England have degrade the availability of radiotherapy treatment in many region over the last 10 year . I understand that breast cancer patient from Bassetlaw have to travel over an hour , as they do in my area , to receive the radiotherapy that they need . what might the hon . Lady say about the Government ' s new cancer plan ? I hope it go a long way to resolve the problem of get access to radiotherapy , which be so effective . I welcome the hon . member ' s contribution . woman in Bassetlaw have to travel all the way to Sheffield once they have be diagnose to have treatment and radiotherapy . that be a long journey and it would be well if the cancer could be treat in Bassetlaw . I wait to hear how that can be achieve in future year , because it be so important for people to be treat close to home . I thank my hon . friend for introduce this debate . she have mention several woman whom I know personally , have work with they , and she be absolutely right that they be incredible . I particularly send my sympathy to Lynn and her family . we know that barrier to improve breast cancer screening rate include not only awareness but accessibility ; it be about people live in rural area be able to get to where treatment and screening can take place . do my hon . friend agree that the Government need to think not only about treatment but about the way in which people access that treatment when they be in rural area like mine and hers ? I thank my hon . friend for his contribution and I agree with he . in bassetlaw , we have a single unit , but there be mobile unit in rural area that might encourage a well take - up rate . the misconception that only woman can get breast cancer be far too common . almost 400 man get breast cancer every year , include my constituent Danny Emmerson from Worksop , who find some lump in his armpit while he be sit watch tv . he go to his gp to get check and be quickly diagnose with breast cancer . I thank Danny for join my campaign to raise awareness that man get breast cancer too . my ask today be that everyone in the Chamber , man or woman , check themselves , and encourage their wife , partner , daughter , granddaughter , sister and all the woman in their life to attend their breast cancer screening appointment . this debate be not the end of my campaign . on 29 June , I will be run the Race for Life in my constituency and visit the Bassetlaw Princess Diana mammography unit to help tell the story of how easy it be for people to get their breast screen . I welcome the fact that my hon . friend the Members for Doncaster Central ( Sally Jameson ) and for Doncaster East and the Isle of Axholme ( Lee Pitcher ) be in their place . the datum for Doncaster and Bassetlaw hospital cover all of our constituency . while I understand that we can presume that there be low attendance level by those who live in our more deprived ward , will the Minister provide advice on what more the Department can do to ensure that we can get hospital - specific datum for breast cancer screening uptake ? do my hon . friend agree that be critical that we get datum at that level , so that our Doncaster and Bassetlaw teaching hospital NHS foundation trust can target the area , and perhaps even the age group , in which woman ' s take - up be low ? I agree with my hon . friend . we have datum , but we remain unsure where the low uptake be . I would like to go to the ward in my area where uptake be low and knock on door to encourage woman to go to their screening , so it would helpful to have precise datum from the two hospital in the Doncaster and Bassetlaw hospital trust . several organisation across bassetlaw support people with cancer , and I wish to highlight the work of Aurora in Worksop , which offer support to people during and after cancer treatment . from exercise space to beauty treatment , emotional support or even just a cup of tea with a friendly face and a listening ear , organisation like Aurora in our constituency be the unsung hero for people go through the challenge that be cancer treatment . I congratulate my hon . friend and neighbour on secure this important debate , and on the campaign that she be lead on woman and man be screen for breast cancer early . uptake be very low nationally , which be a problem in Doncaster East and the Isle of Axholme . incredible work be do by organisation like Visit Bawtry . in October last year , over 70 organisation turn the town pink during Breast Cancer Awareness Month , raise £ 15 , 000 for breast cancer charity and , most importantly , amplify the message that it be important to get early detection to save life . do my hon . friend agree that effort by grassroots organisation be vital , and that the Government must support they , as well as support improve screening access and public health messaging ? I thank my hon . friend for his comment , and I agree with he . bawtry be just across the border from my constituency , and it have a very strong community . when I go to through these town , I see how many people come out on to the street to support one another , so I be sure that the campaign he mention be very strong . I have come across many charity and organisation work on this issue in my constituency ; they often involve people who have have breast cancer , and who want to educate other woman and encourage they to be screen . they be very important to the work that we be do . since the beginning of breast screening check in 1988 , there have be a cut - off age of 70 . my campaign include woman who be above the age threshold for be invite in for screening . my nan be over 70 when she be diagnose with breast cancer . why do woman over 70 have to rely on memory and a phone call to get their screening appointment ? all woman can get breast cancer ; it do not discriminate by age or background . I thank bassetlaw woman Sue Shaw and Barbara Baldwin , who be both over 70 and be now miss out . they argue that the cost of treatment for breast cancer far outweigh the cost of screening . early prevention not only save life , but save the NHS money . they be call for the threshold to be eradicate — that be their ask and mine of the Minister . as we have hear , early diagnosis of breast cancer can save life , and I be do everything that I can locally to encourage woman to attend their screening when they be invite . my bassetlaw message be : love your boob , and get they check . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Bassetlaw ( Jo White ) for bring forward this debate on a really important topic that be close to my heart and , I know , the heart of so many other hon . member . it be really important to ensure that as many woman as possible take up the offer of screening . they should not feel embarrassed to seek help if they feel something untoward when check their breast . my hon . friend have speak really eloquently , and have be support by other colleague . as she have do on other occasion , she have highlight her family ' s experience of lose a love one due to the fear of seek medical advice , and she be right to raise the issue of the downturn in woman choose to be screen in her constituency and , sadly , across the country . survival rate for breast cancer can be good . if breast cancer be find early , at stage one , the five - year survival rate can be as high as 98 . 2 % , but the five - year survival rate plummet to 26 . 6 % when breast cancer be not find until stage four . the early breast cancer be catch , the early it can be treat , and the more likely it be that the patient will recover . everyone be encourage to check their breast for lump . there have be some excellent public health campaign over the year from various charity explain what to look for , be it a lump , a discharge or a dimpling of the skin on the breast . if a change be find , it be essential that no time be waste before contact a gp . that be why screen be an essential tool in our arsenal when try to prevent this disease . a mammogram can identify breast cancer before it be large enough to be feel . the NHS national breast cancer screen programme invite all woman age 50 to 71 to attend a screening appointment once every three year . Mammograms can be uncomfortable , as those of we who have have they know , and many woman have anxiety about have to get undressed in front of stranger , but that short discomfort could save a life . it be important that we encourage all woman not to put off their scan . the NHS breast screening programme be badly affect by the pandemic , as we have hear this evening . screen for breast cancer be pause , and when it restart , the number of woman take up the offer do not recover to pre - pandemic level . even after the backlog of miss appointment have be clear , the take - up of invitation be low , and datum indicate that lot of woman be still not come forward to start their screening journey . the NHS be do more to help to drive up engagement , and we can all do more to help , as my hon . friend be do . the most recent NHS datum show that breast cancer screen uptake in the area include my hon . friend ' s constituency be report at 74 . 1 % , with an achievable standard of 80 % . that be high than the national average of 70 % , but it be short of that achievable high standard . also , the percentage of woman screen within 36 month of their previous screen be report at 97 . 5 % , versus the acceptable standard of 90 % and the achievable standard of 99 % . while more can clearly be do to increase uptake , I hope that those figure for the entire patch that include my hon . friend ' s constituency provide some reassurance that woman be come forward to be screen . however , I absolutely take the point make by she and her colleague that the datum need to be understand at a more granular , local level — particularly datum on the woman come forward in area of high deprivation . I will ensure that my hon . friend have access to that information follow this debate . I be pleased that the Doncaster and Bassetlaw teaching hospital breast screening service have make significant improvement over the past year to improve attendance at appointment . I really commend my hon . friend ' s " love your boob " campaign , and the work that she have highlight with local woman like as Liz , Maria , Barbara , Claire and Lynn , and with man such as Danny , which make the point that be important that man also check . the service have recently expand availability by offer more appointment outside traditional hour . it have extend its clinic hour , and have regular Saturday appointment . the invitation method have also be change from open appointment to time and date appointment , which have be show to help increase engagement , and the service have meet with the Cancer Alliance and commissioner to review way of increase uptake . I understand that Doncaster and Bassetlaw teaching hospital ' breast screening service be plan to invite my hon . friend to visit a clinic in her constituency . I hope that visit will furnish she with further information about local effort to increase uptake , and I know she will make sure that visit happen . in February this year , the NHS launch a national breast screen awareness campaign to encourage more woman to take up the offer of screening , and debate such as the one we be have tonight help raise awareness of its importance . we be not complacent : as well as increase the uptake of routine screening , we need to make sure that the woman who be most at risk be screen more frequently . the breast screening after radiotherapy dataset , or BARD , programme be work to identify and invite woman who receive radiotherapy involve breast tissue when age between 10 and 35 . as we have hear this evening , genetic tracing programme be also look at identify carrier of gene , include BRCA , that predispose individual to a high risk of breast cancer . those woman be entitle to more frequent screening , and we need to ensure that they be identify and inform . the UK national screening committee be consider other change to the breast screening programme . it be look at whether woman with denser breast need to be screen differently , and an ongoing trial call BRAID — breast radiography to aid identification of cancer in dense breast — be look at breast density . the UK NSC be discuss the first finding of that trial , which I be sure hon . member will maintain a close interest in . it will continue to review BRAID and other finding as they become available to ensure that early decision can be make to keep the screening programme update and dynamic . we be also investigate the age threshold for screening . currently , only high - risk woman be invite for screen below the age of 50 . the programme stop at the 71st birthday , although woman age over 70 can choose to opt back into regular screen . a trial call AgeX be review whether an additional screen three year before and three year after the exist age threshold would increase the effectiveness of this programme and ultimately save more life , and the EDITH research study be look at whether artificial intelligence can be use to support the reading of mammogram . if it can , that could relieve pressure on the workforce and allow more screen to take place , as there would be increase capacity to translate the result . the Government have already invest £ 11 million in that trial , and we keenly await the result . more widely , the Government be commit to tackle breast cancer and ensure that woman get diagnose and treat fast and more efficiently . that be why we will publish a national cancer plan later this year . that plan will have patient at its heart and will cover the entirety of the pathway , from referral and diagnosis to treatment and ongoing care , as well as prevention , screening , research and innovation . it will seek to improve every aspect of cancer care to improve the experience of , and outcome for , people with cancer . our goal be to reduce the number of life lose to cancer over the next 10 year . I again thank my hon . friend the Member for Bassetlaw and other hon . member for be in the Chamber this evening , give this House an important opportunity to shine a light on the lifesave importance of breast screening . my hon . friend be do a great service in publicise her work with the NHS , and I wish her good luck with Race for Life . we all have the same goal , and together , we can improve outcome and increase the number of woman survive breast cancer . question put and agree to . House adjourn .