Covid - 19 Inquiry with permission , Mr Speaker , I would like to make a statement on the covid - 19 inquiry . yesterday , Baroness Hallett publish her report from the first module of the UK covid - 19 inquiry , which examine the resilience and preparedness of the United Kingdom between 2009 and early 2020 . my thought , and I be sure the thought of the whole House , be with the family of those who lose love one during the pandemic . their grief and the nature of their loss be harrowing , with so many loved one lose before their time ; so many heartbreaking last goodbye say over a phone or iPad ; and in some case there be not even the chance to say goodbye at all . so many friend and family member be deny even the chance to go to a funeral , and many other find their life change by covid forever . we can only begin to imagine the anguish and anger that people feel , because this report confirm what many have always believe : that the country be not as prepare as it should have be , and that more could and should have be do . Baroness Hallett be unequivocal : " the UK be ill prepared for deal with a catastrophic emergency , let alone the coronavirus … pandemic " . she find that " process , planning and policy " across all four nation fail our citizen . there be fundamental failure of state , with poorly perform public service , as well as health and social inequality contribute to our vulnerability . the inquiry find that " the UK prepare for the wrong pandemic " , with a focus on influenza to the effective exclusion of other potential pathogen . there be a lack of leadership , a lack of appropriate challenge and oversight from Ministers and official , which allow major gap to open up in the UK ' s resilience in the period lead up to the pandemic . Baroness Hallett find " fatal strategic flaw underpin the assessment of the risk " and " a failure to learn sufficiently from past civil emergency exercise and outbreak of disease . " minister and official take false comfort from a positive analysis of the UK ' s preparedness . not enough thought be give to how we might seek to prevent the bad effect of a pandemic , such as with a system of test and trace , rather than accept the consequence of spread as inevitable . in this emergency , the crack in our society be expose . the inequality be glare , and that weaken the response . that be why the report ' s finding on the most vulnerable be so important : what it say about the elderly , ethnic minority and those already subject to exist health inequality , particularly in the early month of the pandemic ; those with high risk of serious illness who be ask to shield for extended period ; those live in overcrowded house , work in the gig economy or on low income ; those who suffer as a result of the appalling increase in domestic abuse during the lockdown ; and , of course , disruption to education and the inequality of vastly different access to online learning and it equipment . resilience have to be for all of we , not just some of we . the underlying picture that this report set out be stark . before the pandemic begin , our public service be already stretch to their limit , during what should have be normal time . this be especially true of the NHS , overstretch even before the pandemic hit , and key worker in other service , overburden in normal time and then ask to go above and beyond . a nation can only be as resilient as the foundational strength of its infrastructure and public service . as I stand here today with 8 million people on NHS waiting list , prison overflowing , council push to the brink and public service in a bad position than they be even in 2020 , we must ensure that we be prepared . Baroness Hallett say that it be not a question of if another pandemic will strike , but when . resilience be not just about another pandemic , but about the full range of risk that we face . we be remind of that this morning as report come in about a global IT outage affect airline , GP surgery , bank , medium and other organisation . it be not easy to know what the future hold . we can not plan fully for every possible risk , but we must do what we can to learn the lesson of this period . the Government ' s first responsibility be to keep the public safe . that be a top priority of this Government . with a long - term approach to strengthen our national resilience , I shall lead a review of our national resilience against the range of risk that the UK face . I shall chair a dedicated Cabinet Committee on resilience to oversee that work . of course , it be not just about central government , so we will work with the devolved government , regional mayor and local leader as we consider the report ' s recommendation . when we have an emergency , we should do everything we can to work together locally and nationally . the Prime Minister have already start to reset relationship with critical partner , because resilience be too important for division to get in the way . instead , it have to be about co - operative strength . some improvement to our operational effectiveness have already be make . the previous Administration do make effort to improve preparedness . these include change in the way that the Government access , analyse and share datum , include with the public . they also change the risk assessment process and the way in which the centre of Government work to prepare for and respond to crisis . as an incoming government , in office for just two week , we will look at those effort in the come month as we develop our own approach . where thing be good , they should be keep ; where they be not good enough , they should be change . the inquiry ' s report recommend improvement in the way whole - system risk be assess and manage across the UK Government and the devolved government , and improvement to the leadership and oversight provide by Ministers . the Government will carefully consider all the finding and recommendation , include any from the Grenfell inquiry that also have a bearing on resilience planning . we will respond in full within six month . we will also play our full part in international effort to improve global health and pandemic preparedness , from disease surveillance and vaccine development to strengthen health system in the global south and build even great international co - operation . the United Kingdom have a huge amount to offer and it be in our national interest to do so , because , as we have see so powerfully , pandemic do not respect international border , so global health security be an essential element of national security . I wish to thank Baroness Hallett and her team for all their work so far and for put the voice of the bereaved at the heart of the inquiry . amid the tragedy of the pandemic , the british people come together in the most extraordinary way — from the incredible service and sacrifice of our frontline worker , not least in the NHS , to the generosity of volunteer across our community support one another with act of kindness . it be a story of service that show the very good of our country . this government of service be determined to learn the lesson from this inquiry and to prepare as good we can for the future . that be the duty that we have to the people we serve , and indeed to the memory of those we lose . it be in that spirit that I commend this statement to the House . I thank the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster not only for early sight of his statement , for which I be grateful , but for his tone in how he address what be an extremely sobering report — module 1 of nine . I suspect that we will look at many more such sobering report in the come month . I put on the record our gratitude to Lady Hallett and her team for the work that they have do and to all the witness who give evidence , particularly those who have experience loss and trauma . that evidence be vital , but give it will not have be in any way easy , give what they have be through . I pay tribute to they . this module , the first of nine , be not only a hugely important piece of work , but the least this country owe to those who lose love one in the course of the pandemic . the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster rightly talk about how this country come together in the face of an unprecedented event , about which we learn more every day as the country have to adapt to change knowledge . I join he in pay tribute to emergency worker and all across the country who work in whatever way to come together and help the country get through , but particularly to those who work in the NHS and care service and those who lose someone . it be an incredibly traumatic time for the entire country . what have be set out by the right hon . Gentleman today and by Lady Hallett yesterday be deeply sobering . it lay bare failure of the state in respect of planning , challenge , resourcing and leadership . irrespective of Government or party in power , it be incumbent upon we all to consider it in the spirit in which Lady Hallett have put forward her recommendation . I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for his recognition of the work already do since the pandemic to improve resilience in this country and ensure that we be well prepared for the next one . we start that work in government , have announce the large overhaul of our resilience structure in decade . we create the resilience directorate within the Cabinet Office , break it out from day - to - day crisis management so that it could focus on resilience , horizon scan and well preparedness . we set up the resilience academy to increase and improve the training of Ministers , mps , civil servant and all those in civil society who respond to crisis . we also announce a new national exercise programme to test our system . the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster highlight that the focus of previous pandemic preparedness planning be around influenza . it be see in the context of Operation Cygnus , which be often point to as the blueprint of how to prepare for these thing . the right hon . Gentleman be right that it focus on influenza , for which we have therapeutic ; in the case of the covid pandemic , we do not . as a country and a civil society , we need to look completely across the piece at how we can well prepare for whatever eventuality may occur . in set out his next step , the right hon . Gentleman adopt exactly the right approach ; I be grateful to he for that and for his candour . there will be many more lesson still to learn . it be incredibly important for our country , this Government and any future Government that we learn the lesson to ensure that we be ready for future pandemic , however painful those lesson be . I be also grateful for the right hon . Gentleman ' s commitment to respond swiftly . I have a few question for the right hon . Gentleman . what plan do he have to consult the devolved Administrations and local government structure on the detailed change propose to how they would operate in the context of a future emergency ? what step will he and the Government be take to ensure that our emergency planning structure be more cohesively join up if our country be to face another pandemic ? more importantly , I want to conclude by say that we stand ready to work constructively and openly with the right hon . Gentleman and the Government in the national interest to ensure that , as a country , we learn the lesson from this module and from Lady Hallett ' s future recommendation to build well resilience in our country and ensure that , irrespective of who be in government , the country be well prepare in future . that be the least that all of we in the House owe the country and those who lose love one or suffer in so many different way — those whose mental health suffer , the child who suffer from not be able to go to school , those who suffer from domestic abuse , and those up and down the country who in many way still suffer from what happen back then . as I have say , I approach this issue in a spirit of co - operation with the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster . I look forward to work with he in the national interest and to build resilience for the future . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his response and for the tone in which he speak . he set out what the previous Government have do , and in my statement I acknowledge that progress have be make , but I think it be also right that a new Government take the opportunity to have a fresh look at this , with fresh eye and in the right spirit . the right hon . Gentleman ask a couple of question on consultation with the devolved administration . yes , that be essential , as be consultation within England with local authority and elect mayor . it be important that different part of the country work together when there be a national emergency . there be also question about how this operate within Government and the balance of responsibility between the centre and individual Government Departments . Baroness Hallett be quite clear that in a truly national emergency the centre have to step up and responsibility can not be leave to individual Departments . the right hon . Gentleman be right to conclude with the spirit of co - operation that we need on this issue . this work be in the national interest and in the public ' s interest . it be the first duty of any Government of any political stripe to do what they can to protect the public . the challenge be that the risk we face be more complex and more unpredictable than they have be in the past . as I say in my statement , we can not fully plan for every risk , but we have to try to have a system in place that give we the well possible chance of planning for the risk we can see in front of we . I thank my right hon . friend for his statement . like everyone , my thought be with the many victim who tragically lose their life . I take this opportunity to pay tribute to the hard - work staff at St Thomas ' hospital in my constituency who care for so many people in their last dying day , and who care for the former Prime Minister when he catch covid - 19 . you will be aware , Mr Speaker , that the national covid memorial wall be in my constituency — a stark reminder of the many life that be lose , each heart painstakingly paint by a family member and dedicate to their lose one . it be a reminder of the many life that be lose . will my right hon . friend visit the covid memorial wall with I and meet the family , and look at how we can make that wall permanent ? this be not just about resilience , but about remember those victim who tragically lose their life . my hon . friend be absolutely right to pay tribute to the staff at St Thomas ' and other NHS staff across the country , who do so much to care for people during that very difficult period . I have visit the memorial wall in her constituency , and she be right : it be an incredibly moving and human experience . I be very happy to take up her invitation to visit again . I call the Lib Dem spokesperson . I be cover for our spokesperson , who sadly can not be here today . I start by pay tribute to Baroness Hallett and all those who have painfully give evidence to this inquiry . it will not have be easy for they and our heart go out to they . this will be a painful day . the inquiry ' s damn finding confirm in clear term what we unfortunately already know , and this must be a moment for change . the country be badly let down during the pandemic and this new Government must ensure that lesson be learn swiftly . the Liberal Democrats call for this inquiry back in 2020 and we will continue to demand that the full fact be know about every aspect of this catastrophic failure . one area of particular focus be the lack of leadership provide by the then Conservative Government . the inquiry find that proper scrutiny and accountability be often miss by Ministers . that be why back Benchers across this House set up the all - party parliamentary group on coronavirus , which I be privileged to chair . over 18 month we hear from frontline worker , public health professional and bereaved family , and there be a deep frustration that they could see what be go wrong , but it be fall on deaf ear in Whitehall . this be a moment to change how politic work , and I hope the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster and the Government will work across the aisle . what will the Government do to ensure that the right voice be in the room for future such health emergency , and do they agree that we need a commissioner for ageing and old people , as the Liberal Democrats have be advocate ? care home be another area of critical failure . many of those victim die not directly from covid but because of the lack of care . do the Government agree that patient and care home resident should be give a new legal right to maintain contact in all health and care setting ? the third area that have be under - report be long covid . many of we will remember stand in the cold in November bang on our drum for frontline worker , yet they have not receive compensation for a disability that have put they out of their beloved profession . will the Cabinet Office work with the Department for Work and Pensions to progress the compensation scheme that be in train and to gather the right evidence to ensure that we get it right ? Ahem . very finally , on the memorial , will the Minister implement the recommendation in the final report of the UK Commission on Covid Commemoration ? order . may I just say to the Front Benchers that we be all learn , but we should do so by set the good example ? you be mean to have two minute , not three . please can we help each other ? otherwise , I will have member complain that they do not get in . I thank the hon . member for her question and the spirit in which she ask they . the truth be that it be easy for any of we to say , " lesson must be learn , " and whenever anything go wrong , people say that . the proof be in the practice . will it be show in practice ? that be the ultimate test for we all . I be happy to confirm to the hon . member that , just as I say to the Opposition spokesperson , yes , we be happy to work across the aisle on this and to consider suggestion . my colleague at the Department for Culture , Media and Sport be consider the recommendation on the memorial . the Minister speak of resilience . he be aware that Northwick Park hospital in my constituency be the epicentre at the start of the pandemic , and the lack of resilience mean that nurse there have to wear bin bag to protect themselves . I note that he speak of Grenfell in his statement . that be fundamentally important , because this be not simply about resilience in health . in that regard , I ask he to look at the issue of reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete . the same raac that cause problem in our school be use in many housing development at the time . we need to be resilient to any potential disaster in that respect , too . I echo my hon . friend ' s tribute to the work of the NHS staff in his constituency . RAAC in public building be part of the Government ' s inheritance . just because the problem have slip down the news agenda somewhat , that do not mean that it have go away . in time , we will have to address it to ensure that such building — whether housing accommodation or public building — be safe for people to live in , work in and be treat in . I congratulate the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster on his new role and welcome the tone of his statement . the report be a stark reminder — if any be need — that even the most eminent and public - spirited scientist can occasionally be wrong when groupthink affect assumption . what can the Government do to ensure that Ministers and parliamentarian have access to the wide possible range of advice — include , where appropriate , dissent voice — across a whole range of issue ? the hon . member be right that groupthink be identify in the report , so it be important for the Government to have access to the wide range of advice , but no part of that , for I or the Government , will be about engage in anti - science rhetoric or anything of that nature . a diversity of view , yes ; a denial of the fact , no . I thank my right hon . friend for his statement . yesterday evening , I walk alongside the covid memorial wall and be move by the number of heart , each one represent someone who die from covid . I extend my sympathy to all the bereaved family who lose love one . many people of all age continue to suffer the consequence of the lack of resilience and preparedness due to long covid , so will my right hon . friend reassure Members that those child and adult who continue to suffer with long covid — such as the young granddaughter of one of my constituent in Shipley — will not be forget as the inquiry continue its work ? I thank my hon . friend for her question . again , I echo her comment on the memorial wall . follow the election , we have a lot of new member in the House ; if any of they find themselves with a spare hour , they could do a lot bad than go to the memorial wall , contemplate , and look at the outpouring of grief that be reflect on that wall . my hon . friend be absolutely right about long covid , which I mention in my opening remark . when we think about the pandemic , of course we think about those who be lose and their family , but there be also people several year on from the pandemic who be still live with those consequence . I thank the Minister for his statement . as the former Minister of Health in Northern Ireland who serve during the pandemic , my thought and condolence be with those who be lose and those who be bereaved , and I pay a tribute of thank to those who work across health and social care during that try time . the Minister say that resilience have to be for all of we , not just for some . I ask he to ensure that all the devolved nation be equally involved . he talk about there be a consultation with the devolved nation and region . can I ask for it to be more than just a consultation , and for it actually to be a partnership ? I thank the hon . member for his comment . he be quite right : this report cover all part of the United Kingdom , and it make a real effort to do so . the new Prime Minister also make an effort to do so in the day follow the election , and one of his first priority be to visit Northern Ireland . I agree with the hon . member about co - operation — I think it be essential . small difference sometimes act to the detriment of the whole effort . I welcome my right hon . friend and near neighbour to his place . like so many family , my family be affect by the death of a love one during the pandemic , and a small heart on the national memorial wall reflect my auntie for time immemorial . do my right hon . friend agree that procurement during a state of emergency such as the pandemic be important , and that any fraud that occur must be pursue ruthlessly ? I thank my hon . friend for his question , and ask that he accept my condolence on the loss of his auntie during the pandemic . he be absolutely right to draw our attention to the procurement issue that have be highlight — they be not specifically cover in this report , but they will be . as he will be aware , this Government will bring forward proposal for a covid fraud commissioner to recover as much as we can of the money that be lose to fraud or waste during that period . I welcome the statement from the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster , and be particularly pleased to hear he talk about the role of local government . local government be instrumental in the response , and I imagine the inquiry will find that have it have a great role , there would have be well resilience . however , as we know , local government financing be in crisis ; my own local council be try to save £ 100 million this year . what reassurance can he give we that local council will be give the funding they need to have in place the resilience we need for the future ? the hon . member be right to praise the role of local government . my experience in Wolverhampton be that the council step up and do a fantastic job for local citizen during the pandemic . the financial position of local government be difficult ; the financial position on a number of thing be difficult . I be afraid the truth be that I can not stand here and promise to write big cheque for everything . we do not say that we would do that during the election , and we will have to operate with a difficult — very difficult — economic inheritance . everything that we do have to be underpin by economic stability and financial responsibility . tough as that is , I be afraid that we have see the consequence of do otherwise all too clearly in recent year . in her report , Baroness Hallett say : " the UK government ' s … pandemic strategy , from 2011 , be outdate and lack adaptability . it be virtually abandon on its first encounter with the pandemic . " can my right hon . friend give I an assurance that any future strategy will be robust and will be update regularly ? one of the thing that Baroness Hallett advise in her report be that every three year there be a proper exercise to test any plan and see whether it be fit for purpose . that be an important recommendation to take away and consider . it be difficult to plan for every possible risk . this be not an easy thing to do , but it be really important to try to have the good possible system in place between the centre of Government , between the Departments and , as we have say , between local authority and the devolve Administrations too . may I thank the right hon . gentleman for the constructive way in which this have be approach , look both at the thing that go well and at the thing we need to learn ? have external scrutiny from the covid inquiry provide that lens . as the Government look at the recommendation and begin to put plan in place , some of that will build on the work that be already be do and some , as he say , will be on thing that need to improve . I suggest that external scrutiny of the Government ' s response be equally important . will he ask Lord Norton ' s Statutory Inquiries Committee to monitor the Government ' s response to the covid inquiry ? Scrutiny be always good , and I be sure that what we do will be scrutinise . it be really important to have a proper dialogue with the public about these thing , because it do no harm for we as citizen , and as Government Ministers , to have a conversation about resilience , about what we do in an emergency , and about we think about that . we do not want to frighten anybody , but it be a good thing to do , and it be a proper role for Government to have a good dialogue with the public about this . I visit the wall this week , and it be a stark reminder of my own experience during the pandemic . I be an operating department practitioner , and I work in emergency maternity theatre during that time . from day one , there be next to no strategy . staff be fight over inadequate personal protective equipment . we try to speak up , but we be not hear . we be give out - of - date mask , gown that be ill - fitting and visor that just fall off our face . even when colleague sadly lose their life to the disease , the chaos continue . I sit with new mother , hold their hand because their partner be not allow to be with they . we stand by the bedside of a colleague on life support as they lose their battle with covid . even now , staff be traumatise all over again when people who have wait so long for treatment can not be help . will this Government ensure that NHS staff can have an input in future pandemic planning , as it be we who know how good to protect our patient ? I be very , very grateful to my hon . friend for reflect her experience . there be nothing that I can add to the power of her word . she be absolutely right that in planning for future pandemic , we have to listen to the voice of the staff , who be the people the country will rely on if we face any kind of similar emergency in future . member on both side of the House will recognise that child and young people really feel the impact of the pandemic and the lockdown on their mental health , their learning and their social and emotional development . we all recognise that executive decision have to be take in an emergency to protect child and staff in school , but I think the public be aghast that pub and zoo open before our school and college . will the right hon . Gentleman ' s committee look at put a proper process in place — potentially designate school and college as national critical infrastructure — with this House take a vote on any extended lockdown of our school and college if those ever need to be put in place , and with evidence take from the Children ' s Commissioner and our school and college leader ? the hon . Lady be right to draw attention to the pandemic ' s impact on education through lose learning and , as I say in my statement , the great inequality that child suffer as a result of differential access to online learning . do they have a good wi - fi connection at home ? do they have the equipment ? be the school fully gear up to provide online learning ? the answer for some child to some of those question be yes , but the answer for a lot of child be no . it be really important in future planning that if we have to make a change , we ensure that it do not reinforce inequality but help everyone . I put on record my gratitude for the service of the staff at the Hospital of St Cross and of other healthcare worker and volunteer across my constituency of Rugby . do my right hon . friend agree that failure of state in the pandemic , and in other case , have often be due to under - investment and an ideological suspicion of the state among some , include , regrettably , some member of the last government ? do he agree that a party that put service first and that believe in invest in our health service and wide Government will ensure that this country be far well ready for future crisis ? my hon . friend talk about failure of state , and that be the essential finding in Baroness Hallett ' s report : there be failure of state . he also mention ideology ; I try in my statement to make it clear that we would not take an ideological approach and that where the last Government have do good thing in response to the pandemic , we would keep they . but I also think that a change of Government after such a long period in power be an opportunity for fresh eye — not necessarily in a partisan way , but have a different set of people to look at what have be do , keep what be good and change thing if need be . that be one of the advantage of a change of Government , regardless of political colour , after one have be in office for so many year . I thank my right hon . friend for his statement , and I welcome his announcement of a review of national resilience . do he agree that the many legacy of the pandemic be still very much with we , from the awful personal impact of bereavement and long covid to the terrible public service impact on everything from school readiness to social care system and more ? do he agree that those impact be bad than they need have be , as set out by Baroness Hallett yesterday ? in that spirit , do he agree that this Government ' s work of renewal must necessarily also be a work of repair ? my hon . friend talk about the legacy and , yes , they be very much still here . in term of vulnerability and exposure , Baroness Hallett also mention the different impact on different ethnic minority community . when I say that resilience must be for everyone , that be also what I be talk about : it have to be for everyone , young and old , and regardless of their ethnic background . sometimes there be vulnerability — particularly in the early month of the pandemic — that expose inequality in that regard , and that should give we all pause for thought . I thank my right hon . friend for his statement and welcome he to his place . may I also thank Baroness Hallett and her team and associate myself with the comment that everyone here have make to the victim , the bereaved family and frontline worker ? as my right hon . Friend say , the voice of the bereaved be at the heart of this report , and that be right . can he assure I that when the Government be reflect on the recommendation , that same spirit will be apply so that those insight go into the Government ' s response ? Baroness Hallett deserve credit for put the voice of the bereaved up front . if anyone have look at the actual report , they will find that before we even get into the recommendation , finding and so on , there be quote from the bereaved that bring home exactly what these loss of love one mean to people , and the last impact of that . here we be some four year on from the beginning of it . I recognise the conclusion in Baroness Hallett ' s clear report and thank she for it . in Cornwall , our peripherality make it so much hard . our local authority ' s public health test and trace be halt by the Government on 12 March when few than half a dozen case be in existence in Cornwall . PPE come very slowly . citizen be make mask and some councillor and officer drive up to Exeter to pick up some . care home and worker in particular be slow to get PPE . in many care home in my constituency , there be tragic result . will we ensure that local authority public health director can be more involved with decision making and set up local solution such as test and trace ? my hon . friend be right to highlight the issue of care home , where it be such a difficult situation throughout the pandemic . we be try to get the right PPE to the staff . it be a huge problem during the early week of the pandemic . I remember raise question about that , and it just expose what a scramble for safety there be , particularly in the early month . she be right to urge we to learn the lesson from that . I thank my right hon . friend for his statement . Mr Speaker , as you will have notice , and as other people have refer to , the report state that there be a failure to engage appropriately with local government in prepare for the pandemic . sadly , that failure continue throughout the pandemic . I have the dubious pleasure of be the cabinet member for health and social care in Hammersmith and Fulham council throughout the pandemic . we have to fight to close our care home because the hospital , under instruction from the Government , be discharge resident without testing and would not listen to we and would not stop . we have to fight to get vaccination in our local pharmacy , and we have to fight to establish a local test and trace system , which then reach 99 % of people when the Government be only reach 62 % . do my right hon . friend agree that further stage of the inquiry , or what the Government now do , should identify and learn from the previous Government ' s failure to engage appropriately with the local authority not only before but during the pandemic ? the point that my hon . friend make about local government be well make . as I have say , my experience in my local authority area be that I think the local council step up . sometimes the issue of who be vulnerable and where they be be much easy for a local authority to know than central Government . the spirit of co - operation that I call for in my opening statement be in the public interest and the national interest , and it be what we have to do . if we co - operate , we will be strong . I thank my right hon . friend for an important statement , and I welcome he to his new role . like many of we in this room , during the pandemic I lose a good friend and Harlow lose an incredible councillor in Councillor Frances Mason , an incredible community champion who serve her community until the very end . in my constituency , NHS staff at Princess Alexandra hospital be on the frontline during this terrible period . their feedback to I be that the Government ' s initial response to covid be too slow and fail to recognise the seriousness of the issue . do my right hon . friend agree ? let I offer my hon . friend my condolence on the loss of his colleague Frances Mason . he be right to pay tribute to NHS staff . Baroness Hallett have set out a number of failing , whether speed , leadership or co - ordination . it be important that we try to learn lesson from this , and we intend to do that . I thank my right hon . friend for his statement . may I associate myself with the comment make today about the bereaved and the integral role of our public sector worker throughout the pandemic ? local government worker across Paisley and Renfrewshire South be on the frontline during the pandemic . they establish temporary mortuary to bury our dead , and they look after the child of key worker so that they could go to work . could my right hon . friend say a little more about how to ensure that local authority will be treat as an integral partner in our resilience planning and the response ? that be about not just their funding but the respect with which they be treat by Government . could he assure we that , in that spirit of co - operation across the four nation , Barnett consequential give to the Scottish Government will be pass on to their intended recipient ? my hon . friend be right to draw attention to the important role of local authority , as other hon . member have . I hope that I have make it clear in my statement and in my response today that this must be an effort by the whole United Kingdom : central Government , devolve Governments and local authority in every part of the country . we be strong together . I thank my right hon . friend for his statement and Baroness Hallett for her important report . on the doorstep of Camborne , Redruth and Hayle , the anger and grief be still palpable . where be the accountability from Ministers ? where be the leadership ? Royal Cornwall hospital NHS trust be on high alert before the pandemic hit . be it not the case that our NHS be desperately struggle year before , through mismanagement from the conservative party , and that life be unnecessarily lose because of it ? careful preparedness planning and management of our NHS and social care service must be a top priority for this Government . my hon . friend be right that the NHS be in a vulnerable position before the pandemic , which be why the long - term health of the NHS be so important . my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care have begin that process . I have to be honest with the House : well long - term strength for the NHS will not happen overnight but it should still be an important aim for we . I welcome my right hon . friend to his place on the Front Bench , and I thank he for his statement . he touch on victim of what have be label the shadow pandemic — the surge in domestic violence during lockdown . do he agree that any lesson learn must include action to protect those for whom the instruction " stay at home " be the most dangerous they can receive ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . he highlight a very important issue that I speak about in my opening remark . it be an important aim of this government to reduce violence against woman and girl . I can assure he that the Minister put in charge of that will champion the cause with a passion and determination that I think and really hope will lead to result . home should be a place of safety . sadly , as he rightly point out , during the pandemic that be not the case for some . I thank my right hon . friend for his statement . we all have story from the pandemic about how we and our family be affect . that be as true for member as it be for constituent right across the country . my family be on the other side of the England - Wales border , and my stepfather be diagnose with multiple sclerosis during the pandemic . I be not able to visit he and provide the support to my mother that our family need . will my right hon . friend assure I that we will create a join - up national strategy ? as he rightly note , the pandemic do not pay attention to our national border . will he assure I that we will work very closely with scientist to ensure that there be a national strategy move forward ? I thank my hon . friend , who highlight the difficulty people have in not be able to visit relative and so on . be join up across the UK be really important . as I say , there be no place in this kind of planning to let what be sometimes small difference get in the way . we have to work together in a co - operative way . we be strong together . Module 1 of the report find that pandemic planning do not take pre - exist health inequality into account . in my constituency , those inequality be particularly wide , as we see at Grenfell Tower . I welcome the Minister ' s statement that the Grenfell inquiry recommendation will be incorporate into the Government ' s response . do he agree that in that response we must have a far well plan for protect the most vulnerable in our society , who be often the most disproportionately affected ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for his mention of the Grenfell inquiry . as I say , it be important to take its finding into account . it be also true that pre - exist inequality leave people more vulnerable . a national emergency like this expose weak point and bring they into the a glaring public light , and they weaken the response of the whole country . the truth be that we have a strong response as a country if we manage to reduce inequality , be they on the basis of ethnic minority or of income . I thank my right hon . friend for his statement . to build on the previous question , Covid - 19 Bereaved Families for Justice UK have say that module 1 of the report do not go far enough in look at inequality . give the high incidence of diabete and other long - term health condition in the south asian community in particular in my constituency , and the disproportionately high covid death rate among disabled , black and asian people , what assessment have he make of the deep structural inequality in the health of the nation , after year of conservative inaction , that cause we to be less prepared for covid - 19 , and that ultimately lead to unnecessary death ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for her question . she be quite right to point out that the prevalence of a particular health condition can be high in one part of the community . as I have say a few time today , the inequality expose in the pandemic make the response weak than it might have be . if we be to be strong and well able to handle an emergency like this in the future , we have to address those inequality . that be not just in the interest of those it will help directly , but in the interest of all of we , because when it come to emergency like this , we be all in it together . Israel and Gaza with permission , Mr Speaker , I shall make a statement on the middle east . I be very disappointed to miss yesterday ' s foreign affair debate due to the European Political Community summit , and I welcome this early opportunity to come to the House . last weekend , I visit Israel and the occupied Palestinian Territories , meet leader on both side . my right hon . friend the Prime Minister have also speak to both Prime Minister Netanyahu and President Abbas , and I have discuss the issue with colleague from the G7 and , of course , the region . this have be a priority from day one because of the desperate situation in Gaza , and the serious risk of escalation in Lebanon in particular . I must be frank : Britain want an immediate ceasefire . the fighting must stop . the hostage must be release . much , much more aid must enter Gaza — Israel promise a " flood of aid " back in April , but impose impossible and unacceptable restriction — and there must be de - escalation on the israeli - lebanese border . I sincerely hope the party will agree a ceasefire as a matter of urgency . I have be discuss with partner the need for plan for what follow , on reconstruction , governance and security , and for reform and empower the Palestinian Authority , but President Biden present his proposal nearly two month ago , so we in this new Government have not seek to cloak our position in qualification or condition . this horror must end now . my visit bring home the conflict ' s appalling impact . I meet the family of those murder and take hostage so cruelly by Hamas , now separate from their love one for so long . I tell they that the UK would continue to push for the immediate release of all hostage . I also meet Palestinians displace by settler . settlement expansion and settler violence have reach record level . the israeli Government have seize more of the west bank in 2024 than in the past 20 year . that be completely unacceptable . this government will challenge those who undermine a two - state solution . finally , I meet aid worker from the United Nations agency operate in Gaza . More aid worker have be kill in Gaza than in every other conflict globally combine this year . those who risk their life to save other be hero . with journalist ban from enter , aid agency be a vital source of information from the Gaza strip , and their report be devastating : almost 40 , 000 kill , mother so malnourished that they can not produce milk for their baby , river of sewage in the street , a surge in disease among child — with 40 time the normal rate of diarrhoea , and with polio now detect — and loot ; one aid truck driver be kill only yesterday . I announce on my visit new funding for field hospital run by UK - Med , which have treat more than 60 , 000 gazan since the conflict begin . humanitarian aid be a moral necessity in the face of such a catastrophe , and it be aid agency that ensure that UK support reach civilian on the ground . UNRWA be absolutely central to those effort ; no other agency can deliver aid on the scale need . it be already feed over half of Gaza ' s population . it will be vital for future reconstruction , and it provide critical service to palestinian refugee in the region . I be appal by the allegation that UNRWA staff be involve in the 7 October attack , but the UN take those allegation seriously . I have speak to UN Secretary - General Guterres and Commissioner - General Lazzarini . follow Catherine Colonna ' s independent review , we be reassure that UNRWA be ensure that it meet the high standard of neutrality and be strengthen its procedure , include on vetting . UNRWA have act . partner such as Japan , the European Union and Norway have also now act , and this Government will act too . I can confirm to the House that we be overturn the suspension of UNRWA funding . Britain will provide £ 21 million in new fund , with some direct at support the management reform recommend by the Colonna review . UNRWA support more than 5 . 5 million Palestinians , and almost 200 of its staff have die in this conflict . I thank the agency for its lifesave work . as we look for a pathway out of the wide crisis , I be conscious of this conflict ' s complexity and be determined to listen to all side . I approach every decision I must take carefully . our overarching goal be clear : a viable and sovereign palestinian state , alongside a safe and secure Israel . there be no way out of this crisis without a route to both Palestinians and Israelis enjoy security , justice and opportunity in land that they can call their own . we be committed to play a full diplomatic role in a renew peace process , and to contribute to that process by recognise a palestinian state at a time determine by we , not anyone else . I know that other aspect of this crisis be of great interest to the House , include the Government ' s assessment of Israel ' s compliance with international humanitarian law in Gaza , the investigation by the International Criminal Court , and what further measure might help to deter malign activity by the iranian regime . let I reassure the House that I take those issue extremely seriously . our commitment to international law be clear , and we be follow the necessary process . as soon as I take office , I task official with a comprehensive review of Israel ' s compliance with international humanitarian law , and that process be now under way . I will update the House again once the process be complete . twenty - four year ago , just week after I first join the House , President Clinton host the Camp David summit — a reminder that this tragedy have last far too long . there be those in this House who , like I , represent constituent who be convince that the world do not understand Israel ' s predicament . to they I say that Israel be in a tough neighbourhood and be threaten by those who want it annihilate . there be no equivalence between Israel ' s democratic Government and Hamas , a terrorist organisation responsible for an act of barbarism on 7 October that seek to kill countless Israelis and provoke wide conflict with Palestinians . I fully support the UK ' s role in defend Israel when Iran launch its unprecedented attack , and I utterly condemn the Houthi attack on Tel Aviv overnight . there be also those who , like I , represent constituent who be convince that the world do not understand the depth of palestinian suffering . to they I say that civilian in Gaza be trap in hell on earth . the palestinian people have be in purgatory for decade , and have be deny the state that be their inalienable right . as Foreign Secretary , I understand both those perspective . I recognise the pain and anguish feel on all side . it make I only more determined to do all I can in this office to advance the cause of peace . I commend this statement to the House . I call the Opposition spokesman . may I start by welcome the Secretary of State and his team to their place ? they take up their role in one of the great office of state , which be commit to shape the future and the safety of our country . that is , after all , the foremost duty of our Government . I take this opportunity to put on record my thank to Lord Cameron , Lord Ahmad and , of course , the shadow Foreign Secretary , my right hon . friend the Member for Sutton Coldfield ( Mr Mitchell ) , for their steadfast determination to end this conflict , and for the humanity that they display when face with a situation of untold horror . I also thank they for keep I — in my previous role as Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee — and both Opposition Front Benches fully update . I be sure that the current Government will continue with that collaborative approach . I thank the Secretary of State for advance sight of his statement , although I can not say that it prepare I fully to find myself on the Front Bench on a Friday morning . he will know the extensive work that we undertake while in government , follow the horrific terrorist attack suffer by Israel on 7 October and the crime against humanity suffer by her people . I welcome his visit to the region . Israel do suffer an appalling terrorist attack — the deadly in its history . as we say from the outset , Israel have the right to defend itself in accordance with international humanitarian law , and we must remove Hamas ' s capacity to launch attack against Israel . as the right hon . Gentleman rightly set out , the situation in Gaza be desperate . too many palestinian civilian have be kill . we continue to see strike on humanitarian infrastructure and the humanitarian situation be unforgivable . the index on famine state that Gaza be now in just that : full famine . I see this when I go on my own visit to the egyptian border with Gaza and meet family who have have to be evacuate due to the severity of the harm cause to they . we need an immediate end to the fighting and to secure the release of the hostage , whose family continue to suffer unbearable torment on a daily basis , so will the right hon . Gentleman please provide an update to the House on reassurance he have receive on the safety of the hostage ? on aid , in his meeting have the Foreign Secretary secure any reassurance to increase the number of truck go into Gaza ? seventy - odd a day be just not enough . in government , we do everything we could to urge Israel to let more humanitarian aid into Gaza and open more crossing , include through Rafah , and we treble our own aid commitment within the last financial year , do everything we could to get aid there by land , sea or air . we have success in get the Ashdod port open , as well as Kerem Shalom , and help get 11 airdrop into Gaza . the field hospital provide by UK aid funding to UK - Med have treat thousand of patient . we also support and help to set up a maritime aid corridor to Gaza . the right hon . Gentleman announce today the return of funding to UNRWA . can he please advise the House on the timeline for that , and provide assurance that taxpayer ' funding will be direct with due regard ? only an end to the fighting will enable a significant scaling up of humanitarian aid . the right hon . Gentleman rightly state that Biden set forward a proposal back by Israel and the UN Security Council to end the hostility . what action be he take to move that proposal forward ? can he also provide we with any reassurance he have secure in his meeting with Netanyahu ? he rightly raise the case of extremist settler ; we be one of the first government to put in place sanction against some of they . can he assure we that he raise this issue with the israeli Government , and whether more sanction will be forthcoming ? the risk of escalation remain high , particularly with Hezbollah in Lebanon , so can I please ask whether his Department assess any change in iranian intent , activity or funding follow the sham election of the iranian President ? when they sit on the Opposition Benches , both the right hon . Gentleman and the now Home Secretary be crystal clear that , be they in government , they would proscribe the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps , so can we please now have the timing for this proscription ? we all want to see an end to this devastating situation , which threaten the stability and security of so many . as his Majesty ' s loyal opposition , our priority will be to work with the Government , but also to challenge and scrutinise they as need . ultimately , we can assure the Government that we will always work in the national interest because it be foreign policy that keep our people safe at home , and that be our foremost duty . I be grateful to the hon . member for her remark and for her work previously on the Foreign Affairs Committee , in which she be a stalwart champion for international humanitarian law . she raise these issue frequently in the House , challenge both side on the issue she think be important , and I be pleased to see she elevate to this position . I be grateful for the work that I be able to do with the former Foreign Secretary , Lord Cameron , and the way in which he keep we — in opposition , in those day — up to date with what be happen in our national interest . I also thank the shadow Foreign Secretary , the right hon . member for Sutton Coldfield ( Mr Mitchell ) , for all his work when he be in office , particularly on the issue of development . the hon . Member ask I about the safety of the hostage . that be of primary concern . of course , we be engage in detailed conversation with Prime Minister Netanyahu on what support we can offer to assist in the business of get those hostage out . I meet hostage family — many of they UK hostage family — to discuss the plight of those hostage . they remain paramount in the Government ' s mind as we head , I hope , towards the ceasefire that we all want . the hon . Member be right to centre her remark on the question of aid . seventy truck a day , when we know there should be 500 , be not enough . the whole House recognise the word " flood " , and we be tell in April that Gaza would be flood with aid . seventy truck be nowhere near enough . as a consequence , we hear story of disease — now include polio — set in , which be horrific and trouble we all deeply . let I reassure the hon . member that we allocate an extra £ 5 . 5 million to support UK - Med in Gaza because those field site be so important against a backdrop in which hospital and medical facility have be pummel and bomb into the ground . she be right to focus on the Biden plan , which we would like to see adopt in the next few day . the plan dominate discussion with G7 Foreign Ministers in Washington DC last week and the conversation I have have with arab partner , and all of we want to see the deal do . I sincerely hope that we get to that point by the end of the month . there be a sticking point with prisoner release as well as with hostage release : what happen on the day after ? Israel ' s security be paramount . Hamas can not remain in charge of Gaza . but equally , the Israel Defence Forces can not remain situated in Gaza . there have to be a new paradigm . it will involve , I suspect , arab partner and other who can give security guarantee to Israel . it be a complicated picture . we have to work at pace on what come afterwards . the hon . member be right to raise the terrible situation on the west bank . it be important for I to meet the new Prime Minister on the west bank to discuss the finance that have be withdraw and the febrile situation we see against a backdrop of an unbelievable expansion , which breach international law that the House stand by . I press the israeli Prime Minister on that issue greatly . we be of course look closely at those issue . on the role that Iran play in sponsor Hamas , sponsor Hezbollah and engage in malign activity , we keep a close eye . I stand by what I say at the Dispatch Box when I be opposition spokesman on these matter , and I will work over the come month to review the context of terrorist activity and state threat with the Home Secretary . I welcome my right hon . friend to his position . what discussion have he have on a deal to secure the release of the hostage ? can he inform the House of the welfare of the remain hostage ? it have now be many month indeed , and it be sadly possible that some of the hostage be no long alive — there be report that some have lose their life . I have speak to hostage family , aware that , in this case , their son may no long be with we . of course , like any parent , they want the body return . there be also hostage still in tunnel , and their parent , brother , sister and family be unaware of their health at this point in time . we will continue to do all we can , work with the israeli authority and with nation , such as Qatar , that , importantly , be able to speak to Hamas in a way that this government can not , in order to ensure their release . I welcome the Foreign Secretary to his place . the situation in Gaza be , frankly , soul shatter . it have be nearly 300 day , and the death toll stand at 38 , 000 , with the vast majority of those kill be woman and child . only three day ago , 22 people lose their life in a strike on a UN - run school — the fifth attack on or near a school in the last eight day . those who survive the bombing be at severe risk of disease and malnutrition , against the backdrop of a medical system that have be completely decimate . I warmly welcome the restoration of funding to UNRWA as a backbone of Gazan society , but the number of death will only increase exponentially now that polio have be find — the Lancet estimate that the number might reach 186 , 000 . this have to end now . we need an immediate ceasefire , but we also need the hostage out and the aid in . it be also right that we should start think about not just the next day , but how we stop this ever happen again . there be only one viable answer , which be a two - state solution . that be our north star , and it be the keystone to stability in the region . I have to express disappointment that the Foreign Secretary refuse to pull the lever that would well signify our commitment to a two - state solution , which be to recognise the palestinian state on 1967 border . Ireland , Spain and Norway do it in May . will he consider it ? if not , why not ? Prime Minister Netanyahu of Israel actively reject a palestinian state , and we know that the fact a palestinian state do not exist be Hamas ' s rallying cry . we must prove they wrong , so what be the Foreign Secretary do to ensure that it happen ? the ICC have issue arrest warrant for Netanyahu , Gallant and Hamas leader , but there be confusion about the Foreign Secretary ' s position on the block . will he clarify that for the House today ? finally , will he consider meet I so that we can work together across the House to advance the cause of an immediate ceasefire and , most importantly , an endure peace and a two - state solution ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady not just for her remark , but for how she take up these issue in the last Parliament , which I be sure she will continue in this Parliament . we be all remind of her family ' s plight in Gaza , particularly in those early month . I welcome her support for restore funding to UNRWA . many of our ally make that decision month ago , back in April and May , and I be sorry that it have take a change of Government to look at it clearly and reach this point . she be absolutely right to raise the huge concern about polio now take hold in Gaza , alongside the tremendous growth in respiratory disease and diarrhoea , which can both lead to death if untreated . there be no confusion on this party ' s position on palestinian recognition . we be committed to palestinian recognition . we hope to work with partner to achieve that , when the circumstance be right . I say to the hon . Lady that it be my sincere hope that the Biden plan be adopt in the come week , and that we get the immediate ceasefire that this party have be call for — it be now a good almost eight month since we have be call for an immediate ceasefire . under those circumstance we can work with other , because palestinian recognition be not the end , in and of itself ; it be actually a two - state solution that be the end that we want to achieve . the hon . Lady be right that the chief prosecutor at the ICC have make his intention clear in relation to arrest warrant , but she will know that there be further hearing to determine whether they will actually be issue . we have be two week in office . it be right that I allow Treasury solicitor , lawyer and the Attorney General to assist I in any judgment that we have to make in relation to that . I say in my statement that there be a process ; it be a quasi - legal process that must be follow with all integrity , and I intend to do that . I welcome the Foreign Secretary ' s statement . it be a real relief , particularly his description of the hell hole that be Gaza . many of my constituent in Rochdale feel deeply appal by the ongoing death and suffering of the palestinian people in Gaza , but they be also deeply appal by the rise tide of settler violence and expansion in the west bank . many of they be desperate for peace in the region , as be many of we in this House today . what specific step be the Foreign Secretary take to actively promote and uphold the independence of the International Criminal Court and the International Court of Justice ? I welcome my hon . friend to his place . it be great to see he here — I know he long hold an ambition to move from journalism to this House . we be clear that the International Criminal Court be the primary international institution for investigate and prosecute the most serious international crime . we fully respect the rule - base order and the ICC ' s independence and impartiality . we be aware that the ICJ be likely to issue an advisory opinion shortly and we will consider it very carefully . I welcome the right hon . member to his role . member on both side of the House want to see critical aid get through where it be need , but I be concern by the Government ' s decision to resume funding to UNRWA . UNRWA school have be repeatedly use by terrorist both to store weapon and to launch attack , and over 100 UNRWA staff have have link to terrorist group in the region . be the right hon . Gentleman able to give UK taxpayer an unequivocal assurance that Hamas have no link to UNRWA in Gaza ? I have the pleasure of meet Catherine Colonna in her role as the Foreign Secretary of France . she be a woman of tremendous capability and integrity . she look at these issue in depth , she report and all our ally have continue to fund UNRWA . she do make a series of recommendation . that be why I speak to the UN Secretary - General and to Commissioner - General Lazzarini , who be responsible for UNRWA , to ensure that they be implement the action plan that come out as a consequence of that review . in find the money available for UNRWA and restore its funding , I have also ensure that there be £ 1 million of funding to support the implementation of those recommendation . I thank the Foreign Secretary for his work on move Government policy on this issue and for put the situation in Gaza at the top of his agenda . in particular , I commend the fact that he and the Prime Minister have consistently call for international law to be follow in the conflict . when will he publish the Government ' s assessment of whether any party have breach international law since 7 October and what the consequence of any such breach should be ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for that question . I know that he have champion the palestinian cause and the palestinian people in this House for many , many year . he push I on an important subject . may I say to he — he be an esteemed lawyer , so he understand why I be choose my word carefully — that this be a quasi - legal process and it be important that I follow the action in the appropriate way , with all probity and integrity ? I will consider those assessment when they be make available to I . I instigate a process on my first day in office . I be support in that by our Attorney General , and I hope to be able to make my view know with full accountability and transparency . I welcome the Foreign Secretary to his place and I welcome the decision to restore UNRWA funding and the overall change of tone from his predecessor on this issue . the Liberal Democrats have long call for arm sale to Israel to be suspend while there be question over its human right record . as shadow Foreign Secretary , he call on the Conservative Government to publish the legal advice that they have receive on this matter . will he commit to do so now ? the hon . Lady will have hear what be just say to my hon . friend the Member for Hammersmith and Fulham — [ interruption . ] the boundary have change and he be now my hon . friend the Member for Hammersmith and Chiswick ( Andy Slaughter ) — Hammersmith have go more upmarket ! [ interruption . ] member will understand that , as the Member for Tottenham , I think that I can get away with that . in all seriousness , because this be a very serious point , I will seek to make my decision with full accountability and transparency . I welcome the Foreign Secretary ' s announcement on UNRWA , whose work I know well . it save life in the face of unbearable horror , and we must be careful about believe any misinformation about its work . early this year , in one of the only hospital still function in Gaza , I meet a mother whose child have be injure by an israeli airstrike . with almost 40 , 000 kill , she ask I to tell the world what be be do to the Palestinians of Gaza . she assume that we do not know , because if we know , surely we would have act to stop it . do the Foreign Secretary agree that , as well as an immediate and lasting ceasefire , accountability be essential in uphold international law , and that the International Criminal Court and International Court of Justice be do vital work on Israel and the occupied Palestinian Territories that must be support and act on ? will he meet I to discuss those issue ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for her question . many in this House will know of her considerable work and the work of her colleague on behalf of those suffering in Gaza over the past few month . they will also know just how hard and unbearable it have be for many , many of those work on the ground . my hon . friend make an important statement about the independence of the work of the ICC and the ICJ . I believe in the separation of power , as I think do all democrats in this House . it be for judge and the judiciary to have the time to reflect and make their consideration and for politician to step back and respect they in that process . that be the case in our own country and it must be the case in international court of law . of course I will meet my hon . friend and other colleague and keep they update . I welcome the Foreign Secretary and his team to their place . I also welcome the statement , in particular the emphasis on the need for an immediate ceasefire , for the immediate release of all hostage and for a stop to settler violence and expansion in the west bank . I welcome the resumption of funding to UNRWA . I add my voice to the call that a couple of hon . member have make for the Foreign Secretary to commit to publish the comprehensive review of Israel ' s compliance or non - compliance with international humanitarian law , as soon as official have complete it . in the meantime , will he apply the precautionary principle and act to stop all UK arm export to Israel , give the already widespread evidence of considerable breach of international law ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady for her remark ; I welcome she , the Green party ' s representative for North Herefordshire , to the House . as I say in my remark , this be one of the tough neighbourhood in the world . Israel be surround by people who would see its annihilation — it be be attack by the Houthis , Hezbollah be fire missile and Hamas want to wipe it off the map . for those reason , it would not be right to have a blanket ban between our country and Israel ; what be right be for I to consider in the normal way the issue in relation to offensive weapon in Gaza , follow the quasi - judicial process that I have outline . I welcome my right hon . friend to his place and congratulate he , on behalf of my constituent in Warwick and Leamington , on give priority to this issue . I commend he for today ' s announcement . the restoration of funding to UNRWA be long overdue ; as we have hear , many other nation do this many month ago . give its importance in the supply of 60 % of aid and 50 % of food into Gaza , the 70 truck a day we have hear about be way insufficient — an estimate 500 be need . my right hon . friend may be aware of the Oxfam report show that the IDF have almost systematically weaponise water in Gaza ; there have be a 94 % reduction in the water supply , to just five litre per person per day . my right hon . Friend speak about dysentery and polio . what do he believe the UK can do to assist the restoration of the water supply in Gaza ? I be grateful for my hon . friend ' s continued championing of these issue . he be right to mention the importance of water . I think it be now half a million people who be at category 5 — the definition that constitute starvation and famine — and in large part that be due to there be no access to clean water . he know of the scene of sewage get into the system . the lack of clean water be a desperate situation . in the end , what we need be a ceasefire , because only with a ceasefire can reconstruction work begin . my right hon . friend be absolutely right to speak of the need for an immediate ceasefire and the need to restore funding to UNRWA . I welcome both those move . he also speak of the Government ' s need to make an assessment of israeli compliance with international humanitarian law in Gaza , but the question then arise : after that assessment have be make , what be go to happen ? he say in his statement that the horror must end now , and indeed it must , but he have just explain to the hon . member for North Herefordshire ( Ellie Chowns ) that to cease supply arm to Israel would cause , as he see it , a great problem . what be the leverage that he have ? if the horror must end now , and it must , then this Government must be able to take some action once they have review and receive the legal assessment that he have call for . I be prepared to give he time to get that assessment , but I want to know what he be go to do once he have get it . my hon . friend be very experienced , experience enough to know that the minute any individual describe their leverage , that leverage be lose . therefore , if he will forgive I , I will not share that at the Dispatch Box at this stage . however , the passion that lie behind his question be a concern that , for nine month , Foreign Secretaries have stand at this Dispatch Box and say that the aid must get in and that we must follow international humanitarian law — and now , month later , there be a new Foreign Secretary at the Dispatch Box and there be still serious concern about international humanitarian law and the aid have simply not get in in the quantity need . he share my frustration , and it be frustration indeed that I share with leader in Israel . I call Emily Darlington . I be sorry , Mr Deputy Speaker ; I be not bob , but I be happy to ask a question . be you sure it be I you be call on ? please go ahead . the Clerks be struggle a bit with new member . I congratulate my right hon . friend and his entire team on their position , and thank he for the restoration of funding to UNRWA . as someone who have work in international development , I have see the vital work those organisation play , and in particular those organisation under the United Nations umbrella , because they be where we can come together as an international force . do he agree that the solution in the Israel - Palestine conflict be not necessarily solution here in Parliament , but solution that we will have to work with our international partner to build ? my hon . friend have get off to a good start . she be right , first , because we have see so many aid worker lose their life and , secondly , because her emphasis on the partnership that we have to strike with ally across the world be essential if we be to see the change that we need , particularly in Gaza but also in the Occupied Territories . it be very welcome to see the Secretary of State and his team on the Front Bench as Britain ' s voice in the world . that have a particular significance for I , as one of my predecessor in the Livingston constituency be Robin Cook . I know Robin Cook ' s time in office and his thinking do much to inform the Secretary of State ' s approach to his new role . this statement be incredibly welcome , although it set out the horrific situation on the ground in Gaza . do the Secretary of State agree that there be no peace without a two - state solution , and that oppose a two - state solution be wrong for both Israelis and the palestinian people ? I be very grateful to have be ask a question by the new occupant of Robin Cook ' s seat . he be a stalwart and a champion of this cause . I be grateful to come into this House when he be serve as Foreign Secretary , and in an article I write recently in Foreign Affairs I pay tribute to his work over many year . the vote by the Knesset yesterday be hugely disappointing . we believe passionately in two state . I say to those who reject two state , " if you be a proponent of one state , you have to explain how everyone enjoy equality under the law . and if you be a proponent of no state , you be effectively suggest that occupation continue . " that be unacceptable , I would have think , to all member of this House . I congratulate my right hon . friend on become Foreign Secretary , and I welcome his statement outline the restoration of UNRWA funding , for which Labour member have be call for a long time . he will remember that many of we have raise the issue of humanitarian aid . we meet many aid organisation throughout the last Parliament , include Islamic Relief , which be base in my constituency , who tell I , two day after 7 October , the harrowing story of lose contact with all their staff on the ground . we know that blockade and restriction be key issue , so will he outline how they will be lift so that urgent aid can get to the people who need it ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for her question , and may I congratulate she on her remarkable speech at the beginning of the debate on the Address ? she have also raise these issue before . we certainly share a christian faith and have talk about our deep concern as people of faith , and I pay tribute to Islamic Relief for its work . one issue be that Rafah be now close , and it need to reopen . another issue be not just the truck get across but the distribution once they be there . very sadly , the picture that be now be paint be one of lawlessness in Gaza : widespread looting from the truck that get across , and , very sadly , a driver lose his life yesterday . her question be , as the people of Vauxhall and Camberwell Green would say , on point . I welcome my right hon . friend to his position and the restoration of funding to UNRWA . it be good to see that when we talk about change at the election , we also mean in the international approach of the Government . I know that he will share the House ' s revulsion at the ongoing horror face by hostage , their family and the innocent civilian in Gaza face this endure crisis . that revulsion be share by many people in my Peterborough constituency . it be a privilege to be a voice for they in call for a ceasefire , the release of hostage , peace and a complete solution to recognise Palestine . what message would he send to constituent of mine — who have for too long hear discussion about a two - state solution — to say that this time , with a new government , we have a new approach to deal with the immediate crisis and achieve the recognition of Palestine ? my hon . friend know that I know Peterborough very well , have spend seven year of my life in that great cathedral city . I have knock on door with he and know that this be an issue of great concern there . we be absolutely committed to the two - state solution . the global community have , for too many year , talk about it but not act , and I recognise that there be now almost tremendous cynicism when that phrase be use , but there be no way out of this crisis without a plan for afterwards . that plan must , of course , guarantee the security of Israel , but the palestinian cause be a just cause , and we must work with arab partner and build up the Palestinian Authority . I speak to they at length about what more we can do to assist they with the reform that they need to make so that we can realise that . my hon . friend be absolutely right to put on record our deep concern for the hostage , their family and their plight . if they be release , we could end this now . I warmly welcome my right hon . friend to his position as the first Labour Foreign Secretary for 14 year , which be very welcome . do he agree that the UK ' s extensive , long - stand diplomatic , economic , cultural and defence tie with the Gulf Arab and other middle eastern government mean that we be well place to bring our influence to bear and work in co - operation with our international partner , in order to achieve a two - state solution that ensure a safe and secure Israel and a viable , sovereign and — one day , we hope — prosperous palestinian state ? can he also assure I that all will be do to enable british organisation and company to play their full role in rebuild Gaza ' s infrastructure and economy ? I say to my hon . friend , the new Member for Rugby , that that be a very good question . that be why in opposition , I spend so much time with partner in the region , talk to they about the future . all of they want to be engage , want peace and want to move towards a process of normalisation , but they be all crystal clear that that can not happen by ignore the plight of the palestinian people , or without set up a road map to two state . they be not prepared to reconstruct Gaza for this to happen yet again in 25 year ' time , so we have to work with they . they play a critical role , but we must now get that immediate ceasefire . I welcome the Foreign Secretary and his team to their place , and strongly welcome the decision announce today to restore funding for UNRWA , which will be recognise by many people in south Birmingham as an important step — among many other — towards end the horror that we see today in Gaza . the israeli Government ' s decision to end the legal route for Palestinians to work in Israel have play an important role in the entrenchment of poverty and political instability in the west bank , alongside the illegal settlement programme . will the Foreign Secretary make representation on this important matter , recognise that both the israeli Histadrut and the Palestinian General Federation of Trade Unions , as pillar of civil society in both nation , have an important role to play in the establishment of a last peace ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for his question , which give I an opportunity to talk about what I see on the west bank . the situation be febrile — it be anxious . there be tremendous hardship because of the withdrawal of those fund . it be phenomenally tense , and against that backdrop , people be watch their land be take from they before their eye . as such , the representation that my hon . friend have ask I to make be absolutely the representation I make when I speak to the leadership in Israel , because this simply can not continue , and we must act to stop it . I welcome the Foreign Secretary and the whole Front - Bench team to their place — it be wonderful to see . I also welcome the visit that the Foreign Secretary make to the middle east , and thank he for the time he spend visit the family of the hostage who have be hold in Gaza for nine month now . I ask he to commit to do everything he can to ensure those hostage be release immediately . I welcome my hon . friend and north London colleague to his seat . he represent a part of the country with a significant jewish population ; in my own constituency , I be very proud of the Stamford Hill area of Tottenham , which be also a historic home of the jewish population . they be hugely concerned about the plight of hostage , and they worry that the discussion about hostage have fall off the lip of so many people . they worry that the horror of 7 October have be forget against the backdrop of this unfold crisis and this war , and I want to reassure they and my hon . friend that they have not be forget . the british Government — and this be a cross - party issue — be work very closely with the Israelis and other to see the hostage release . debate on the Address [ 3rd Day ] Debate resume ( Order , 18 July ) . question again propose , that an humble Address be present to his Majesty , as follow : Most gracious Sovereign , we , your Majesty ' s most dutiful and loyal subject , the Commons of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , in Parliament assemble , beg leave to offer our humble thank to your Majesty for the Gracious Speech which your Majesty have address to both Houses of Parliament . planning , the Green Belt and Rural Affairs it be an honour to open today ' s King ' s Speech debate on behalf of his Majesty ' s Government , and it be the honour of my life to address the House for the first time as the Deputy Prime Minister . we have be give a mandate by the british people to turn the page on 14 year of chaos and start the new chapter that they deserve . that begin with this week ' s King ' s Speech , but it be not the word that we offer ; it be the action . I know at first hand how Government can change life for the well . I say that not as a politician , but as someone whose life be change for the well by the last Labour Government , and I be determined to do the same for other . that be why we have set out a bold vision to smash the class ceiling , to get Britain building , and to improve the quality and standard of life for everyone everywhere across our country . let I give a huge welcome to all the new member on the Government Benches , who be crucial in deliver that programme of national renewal . I also extend a welcome to new Opposition Members . we will disagree on much , I be sure , but we all share the honour and privilege of represent those who send we here , so I wish the very good to all hon . member make their maiden speech today . just over nine year ago , when I make my maiden speech on behalf of the people of Ashton - under - Lyne , I pledge that I would always tell it as it be , and I think that be one promise I have keep . now I intend to fulfil another , because we promise the people of this country that we will serve their interest and not ours . that start with we have the honesty to say that we will not be able to put right the mess of the past 14 year immediately . but after just two week , we have already make a difference by create a national wealth fund to grow our economy ; scrap the fail Rwanda plan ; lift the near - decade - long ban on onshore wind ; start work on the 40 , 000 extra NHS appointment that people need each week , and on get the 700 , 000 urgent dental appointment up and run ; and resume and expand teacher recruitment . in my Department , newly rename the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government , we will replace slogan with substance . we be get back to the real work of govern in the national interest . we have already take early step to unblock our planning system , create a new taskforce to accelerate progress on stall housing site in our country , begin with four that alone could deliver more than 14 , 000 of the home that Britain so desperately need . the housing crisis be hold Britain back . too many family face soar mortgage payment , or sky - high rent for damp , unsafe home , and there be leaseholder who be trap , face eye - watering charge with no way out . all this have be fuel by the chronic housing shortage , after the last Government fail to meet their housing target every single year . housing completion be now set to hit their low level since world war two . we know we have a mountain to climb . that be why we be already take the first step , start with an overhaul of our planning system — a reform that will help we build the home we need and speed up provision of the infrastructure to support they . we be commit not just to an ambitious target for overall housing building , but to build the big wave of social and affordable housing for a generation . that be a promise that we will bring back with meaningful housing target . it be right that local people have a say on what kind of house be build and where , because our aim be not to build big , but to build well . we will work with local government to plan new housing in the good possible place , with the infrastructure , public service and green space they need . social housing must be there when people need it , and affordable housing to own should be there when they want it . I congratulate the Deputy Prime Minister on her new role . my local council in South Staffordshire and Dudley have work hard to prepare local plan that provide the housing they have assess that the local community need , while also protect key green belt . will the right hon . Lady really tear up plan that have be adopt , or that be in the formal process of be adopt , if her bureaucrat feel that their assessment be well than the local council ' s ? I welcome the hon . Gentleman ' s comment , and I congratulate the local authority that have those local plan . if those plan be adopt , that be exactly what we want to see ; we want to see more local plan , and more engagement with local leader , so that we can build the house that people want in their area , work together with they . the hon . Gentleman talk about the green belt , but we have be very clear on the grey belt as well . we will not get the housing we need just from brownfield site , although brownfield will be first . we will work with local leader , because the mandate the british people give we at this election be to get the housing that Britain need . I be afraid that the last Tory Government do not take this issue on but fail people , and we have a chronic housing shortage . everyone should have a place to call home , and we will legislate to make that happen . our renter ' right Bill will give protection and security to tenant , as well as responsible landlord , level the play field . we will plug the gap leave by the last government ' s Leasehold and Freehold Reform Act 2024 , tackle unregulated and unaffordable ground rent and strengthen leaseholder ' right . our planning and infrastructure Bill will provide the extra home we need , unblock stall development site and unveil the next generation of new town . my constituency have vast swathe of high - risk flood area — zone 2 and 3 — and we see flooding every year ; we see it most notably in 2014 , but also in January . will the right hon . Lady ' s planning reform protect area at high risk of flooding , so that they be not build on , make our flooding bad ? order . we have a lot of speaker to get through , include some maiden speaker , so I urge Front Benchers to make short speech and take few intervention . otherwise , we be not go to get through these maiden speaker . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker . I will take your advice , and I apologise to member for the fact that I will not take more intervention . we have to grapple with these issue and work with those in these area . obviously , flooding have be a major issue , and the Government will look at it . it be devastating to people when their home be flood , and we have to look at these thing in the round when look at planning . we will unveil the next generation of new town , and we will learn the lesson of the past to create safe and beautiful home and the sustainable green community of the future . this Government be fully commit to the 13 target set under the Environment Act 2021 , and we will work closely with my right hon . friend the Environment Secretary to ensure that we protect the environment and nature . we will work with local leader to ensure that these town meet our gold standard of have 40 % genuinely affordable housing , with home for social rent a priority . in some place , we will extend urban area and regenerate they so that everyone benefit from well public transport and extra public service . we be build not just home but community . our first port of call will be brownfield land . previously use land will be develop first wherever possible and those site will be fast - track , but brownfield development alone will not meet the country ' s increase urgent need . the green belt be design for England in the middle of the 20th century . it be right to keep that principle but make it relevant for today . that be why we will release low - quality grey - belt site , disuse car park and garage , and ugly wasteland to meet the need of 2024 . our golden rule will require developer to enhance local nature and public access to green space and provide the local service for community ' everyday need , such as school and GP surgery . we will also reverse the damaging change that the previous Government make last December . while they backtrack in the face of vested interest and scrap mandatory housing target , Labour will govern in the national interest and take the tough choice to get Britain building . we will do so under an update national planning policy framework , which we will have by the end of this month , because the current system just be not work , either for housing at a local level or for project at a national level . these be project such as data centre , lab and research site , which should unleash a modern economy , not to mention large - scale project that help improve the environment . onshore wind be the cheap form of electricity go , but planning policy have effectively ban it for nearly a decade . we be start it up again , and we will go far . as part of our plan for cheap household bill and achieve net zero , we be take the brake off the planning system . in the first three month of this year , just a fifth of major application be determine within the 13 - week period . as for nationally significant infrastructure , the average time for consent be now more than four year , compare to two and a half year as recently as 2021 . our Bill will speed up and streamline the process from start to finish . it will modernise plan committee and increase the capacity of our local planning authority . by reform compulsory purchase , it will support land assembly for development in the public interest . we will unblock new grid connection , road , railway and reservoir — game - change reform for national renewal . the leader of our community be well place to take forward that mission , and I be delighted to invite our mayor to Downing Street with the Prime Minister , day into a Labour Government . they represent our big city and our most beautiful countryside , and I know only too well the diverse challenge that our people need to overcome . there be now so many labour mayor that I have lose count of how many we have . I also note the positive word from Ben Houchen about the constructive engagement that local leader have already experience under this new Government . along with their local citizen , we will give they a big say on how to transform their neighbourhood and high street . we will hand they the power to transform their region , so that they become the good place for people to live , work and enjoy . we be under no illusion about the hard yard need to repair the economic and social damage that the last Government leave behind . as my right hon . friend the Chancellor have say , we have the bad inheritance since the second world war . back then , it be Labour that rebuild Britain from the rubble of war , create the NHS , the welfare state and council home for our return hero . it will be a Labour Government who now rebuild Britain once again . it be a delight to be back at the Dispatch Box , and I have be look forward to speak opposite the right hon . Lady for a very long time . she and I have never really meet , and certainly never speak to each other , despite be in this House together for seven year . we have some thing in common , although not much . we be both bear in 1980 , although I be old and wise than she be . People often think we be both much young than we really be , because we have get such great skin and good hair , and we be both know as be quite feisty . I be really pleased to be able to congratulate she on her elevation to Secretary of State and Deputy Prime Minister . this be a phenomenal achievement . she will be a great inspiration to young people , particularly young woman , in many community across the country . that be a wonderful thing . that be the sort of Britain we be : where people from all walk of life can grow up and reach the top . it be an extraordinary story , dare I say it , of conservative success . because unlike I , the right hon . Lady grow up under a Conservative Government , with a welfare state that provide a safety net , a strong economy and opportunity . I mostly grow up in Nigeria , under a socialist military Government , who use a lot of the rhetoric that I hear she promote when she be sit on the Opposition Benches . she may not credit the conservative for what she have achieve , but we will take some of the credit anyway . I would like to extend a very warm welcome to the right hon . Lady on her first outing as a Minister in the Chamber , because it will only be downhill from here . the thing be , I have be a Secretary of State , and after five year as a Minister one learn a thing or two about government that can not be learn in Opposition . I have be there and do it , and I can tell the right hon . Lady that she have be stitch up . it be quite clear that the Bills and policy from the King ' s Speech that she just reference be write not by she , but by the Chancellor and her adviser . we all know that because we watch the Chancellor announce they in far more detail in her speech last week . all the stuff that the Secretary of State work on in Opposition , such as her new deal for worker , have be take off she and give to the Business Secretary . I be sorry to tell the right hon . Lady that her colleague — the Prime Minister , the Chancellor and their many adviser — have write a manifesto and make promise that be not deliverable , and they have hang they around her neck and say , " Ange , you go out there and you sell it . " I be sad to see many of her shadow team not sit beside she as Ministers . they work for free , grind in opposition for year , only to watch the child of the choose one get the ministerial car and salary before their maiden speech be write . wow . Sue Gray be a lot nice to I when she work in my Department . I think we know who be in charge , and it be not the right hon . Lady . she have be stitch up — her colleague have make she the fall guy . the Government have promise 1 . 5 million house by the end of this Parliament — over 800 house per day — and we be already two week in . as she go on , day after day , she will realise that a backlog be build , and there be no way out . I want she to know that I be here for she . I will be here to hold her hand and walk she through what be likely to be a very difficult time . I may even give she some tip because , have work in that Department , I know what need to be do . I know what we should have do but do not do , and I know that the Labour Government will make the same mistake . it be not that 1 . 5 million home by the end of this Parliament be unachievable , but it will require the sort of systemic change that Labour Members be not ready for . I know that because of how they vote in the last Parliament and how they campaign in their own constituency . I will not read out the long list of all the Cabinet member who have be oppose planning in their backyard , include the Housing Minister . many of they think that they would get into government and concrete over lot of Tory constituency . three week ago , just 15 % of the green belt be in Labour constituency . now it be 50 % . they be not Tory constituency now — they be Labour . [ hon . member : " hear , hear ! " ] yes , they be Labour . I say to Labour Members , " they be now your voter and your electorate , and you ' re go to have to tell they that you ' re go to do something that many of you promise locally that you would never do , not that long ago . " however , mostly it will not be the problem of the Cabinet , who will look after themselves . it will be the Back Benchers — all those bright , shiny face I see sit behind the right hon . Lady , who be really excited to be here . they have not start get those angry email that we have be reply to for 14 year . many of those voter , on whom their narrow , slim majority now rely , will be write to they . in the spirit of sisterly support , I will let the right hon . Lady know what will happen over the next few week and month . Labour Members be look so nervous right now . the right hon . Lady will have a consultation period , which will take this long . then , she will have to respond to that consultation , which will take that long . assume that nothing go wrong with either of those process , we reach December or January . six month will have pass — 10 % of the Parliament — and the Government will not have build any extra home . at this point , she will be run 500 home behind the target every single day and they would not have start build properly . [ interruption . ] the Minister of State in the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government , the hon . Member for Greenwich and Woolwich ( Matthew Pennycook ) , be chuntere from a sedentary position , " you wait and see . " we have see . we have be there . we know ; you don ' t . and as it become clear to their voter what be happen in their new labour constituency — for which , congratulation — in the green belt , those mp be go to receive a lot more email . I mean , a lot more . they be go to want a lot of public meeting , because they will know that the decision she announce be now be take out of local hand and make by central Government . and the only way that they can register their concern be by appeal to their local mp , who will all be appeal to she . well , this be what be in power be . government be about make difficult decision . opposition be easy — we have be watch Labour do it for 14 year , and it have spend all that time tell the people of this country that they will do well . so here be the record that they be go to have to beat : we build 1 million new home in the course of the last Parliament , while safeguard the green belt ; and 2 . 5 million since 2010 , despite covid . we deliver nearly 700 , 000 new affordable home and over 172 , 000 of those be for social rent . we put in place the £ 11 . 5 billion affordable home programme . do the right hon . Lady even know yet if the Chancellor will give she up to £ 11 . 5 billion ? she be go to need a lot more than that if she be go to beat our record . and let we not forget what Labour do just last year . we have a majority in this House , but not in the other place , where they whip Labour Lords to vote against an amendment on nutrient neutrality , use new Brexit power to unlock 160 , 000 home . many new member do not see that happen . they be go to find it shocking . we legislate for that and they block it — destructive opposition . be they go to reverse that decision ? I have a feeling they will not . and that be why I be worried about the right hon . Lady . be she go to be able to face down her Back Benchers ? or will labour carry on not do the thing that have to be do in order to build home ? let we look at Labour ' s record . the right hon . Lady talk about what happen after the last world war . in the year to June 2009 , when everybody here be alive and they be last in government , they only build 75 , 000 new home — the low level of housebuilding since the 1920s . and what be they do where they currently be in government ? in London , Sadiq Khan have fail to hit his own target , begin just 21 , 000 new home in 2022 , despite we give he pot and pot of money . we be force to intervene on his housebuilding failure . why have he not build on all those car park that she be talk about in her speech ? in Wales , the Labour Administration promise to deliver 20 , 000 new home for social rent by 2026 . they have barely deliver a quarter . the right hon . Lady may pretend that building home be easy , but labour know it be not easy because they fail in London and they fail in Wales , and they be already make new mistake . we all know that immigration increase housing demand . just this week , we hear that they be go to be fast - track 90 , 000 illegal immigrant who already land here . if they be permit to stay , they will require permanent housing . we put the Rwanda scheme in place to limit illegal immigration . they have scrap it . with no plan whatsoever to tackle the problem , have she get 90 , 000 home ready for the people the Home Secretary be go to be fast - track through ? if not , she be already 90 , 000 home down on the target the Prime Minister have set for she . so that be why I be feel very generous towards the right hon . Lady , because she have be stitch up . she be go to need some friend , and I want she to know that we be all here for she . [ laughter . ] some people think opposition be about throw mud across the Chamber or call your opponent scum , but often it be about say , " I tell you so . " I want to reassure the right hon . Lady that I will be here to say , " I tell you so " when these target be miss . we , of course , will be a constructive opposition . we want to see home build in the right place with the right infrastructure . we be here to help . I doubt the same can be say of the big local nimbys in the country , the Liberal Democrats . there be many more of they now — you wouldn ' t know it , but there be — usually elect on promise not to build anything anywhere in their community . in the last Parliament , I watch they oppose plan reform on permit development ; reform that would have allow we to build on land that be already in use . it will be very interesting to see how they square their nimby tendency with their manifesto promise — but then again , say one thing and do another have never bother the Liberal Democrats . the right hon . Lady will not get any help from they , but we be here for she . I have hear some of Labour ' s plan . introduce mandatory target while introduce new regulatory cost will not work . without taxpayer funding , Labour ' s affordable housing target be unviable . where be that money go to come from ? the mandate that Labour want to enforce imply a consequence for miss the target . what will that consequence be for local council ? be labour go to scrap the neighbourhood plan that community have put together to deliver more home ? what will those council say when they be force to do thing that they promise they would not do just eight week ago ? we have hear from Labour Members that they will introduce mechanism for override local decision make to identify the land for development . that be fine , but identify land do not mean that home or infrastructure will be build . I look forward to the Second reading of the right hon . Lady ' s Bill , when she will have to explain the plan that the Chancellor and her spad have write up for she , and she can tell we in great technical detail how they will be deliver — although I suspect that she will leave the tricky stuff to her junior Ministers . we Conservatives may not be as many as we use to be , but we still know all the stuff that we learn over 14 year as we deliver 2 . 5 million home . we know where the difficulty be , and we know the technicality ; the right hon . Lady be just learn . we will be ready and wait to show that she and her party have make promise that they can not keep , and in many case have no idea what they be do . the Labour Government have a tough act to follow — [ Laughter . ] they do ! however , imitation be the sincere form of flattery , and I be pleased to see that they have be copy and paste many of the policy that we have in government . we introduce metro mayor with substantial power ; now they be announce that they be go to do more . we put billion of level - up funding into community , back metro mayor such as Ben Houchen ; let we see whether Labour will follow that for all its new mayor . in the last local government finance settlement we make £ 64 . 7 billion pound available to local authority , a 7 . 5 % increase in cash term . let we see whether Labour top that , rather than just move money from one part of the country to another . we would like to see the Labour Government get the Holocaust Memorial Bill — which we initiate — on to the statute book , as the Prime Minister promise , and we will support they in that . we must do right by our jewish community , and we provide record level of funding to protect they from harm and extremism . we take decisive action to tackle grow sectarianism , so we be disappoint not to see any mention in the King ' s Speech of how Labour would continue that . in the election we see independent mp win seat from Labour on the back of sectarianism and integration failure , a problem whose existence Labour continually deny even as we be watch riot in Leeds . it be time to put away the childish display and fake outrage that Labour have be show . the right hon . Lady will need to get very serious very quickly , and where she have the right ambition , we will do what we can to support she in face down those member sit behind she who still do not get it . rise — order . because we be try to get in as many member as possible , I shall have to impose a seven - minute time limit on all back - Bench speaker . I urge maiden speaker , who will not have a formal time limit impose on they , to stick to that sort of limit . obviously , the time limit will not apply to the Liberal Democrat spokesman , but I know that she will try to be brief . it be a pleasure to see my right hon . friend the Member for Ashton - under - Lyne ( Angela Rayner ) in her rightful place as Deputy Prime Minister . it be also a pleasure to speak in this first King ' s Speech under a focused and mission - lead Labour Government . I wish to record my thank to the constituent of Southgate and Wood Green for put their faith in I to represent they as the first Member of Parliament for this newly configure constituency . the legislative programme in the King ' s Speech show that the Government be determined to get crack with the legislation need for a long - term national renewal , and nowhere more so than in housing . the shortage of both private and social housing be a huge problem across the country . family and child often wait for year in temporary accommodation that may no long be suitable , and many young people be unable to afford a deposit on a new home whose price have far outstrip earning in recent year . they be force either to stay at home with their parent , or to live in precarious shared accommodation . another scandal be the high level of no - fault eviction , which be add to the pressure on local authority to house homeless people . it be for those reason that I welcome the propose renter reform Bill , which will abolish section 21 no - fault eviction and strengthen tenant ' protection and right to challenge rent increase , among other thing . I also welcome the propose planning and infrastructure Bill , as we need to get on with house building so that people do not have their life put on hold because of unaffordability . we need to build more house in the right place , and ensure that there be no adverse impact on local service and that the design and specification be to a high standard . the type of house build should conform with the need of the local community , with more family - sized house need urgently . we also need more council house . I applaud the effort of Enfield and Haringey council in build more council house in my constituency , but more need to be do . I encourage the Government to support council in any way they can so that more council house be build . to build more house , we need a highly skilled local workforce , which be why I welcome the measure in the propose Skills England Bill , which will identify national and local skill need and ensure that they be be meet . I turn now to other element of the King ' s Speech . we all need to ensure that our community be safe , which be why I welcome the measure in the propose crime and police Bill , which will give the police and law enforcement new power to tackle antisocial behaviour and retail crime , focus on attack on shop worker and low - level shoplifting . small and medium - sized local business , which be the lifeblood of our local high street , be now seriously impact by even low - level crime , so we need to make sure that they be support and that law enforcement take seriously all report retail crime . Knife crime have a terrible , devastating effect on the life of victim ' family and friend , and I find it shocking and sad that the perpetrator be often the same age as the victim . that be why I be pleased to see that tough sanction will be introduce to ban ninja sword and other lethal blade , while tackle the gang who exploit child for criminal purpose . it be also good to see that there will be support for teenager at risk of be draw into crime . on a personal level , I be delighted to see that the tobacco and vape Bill will be reintroduce in this Parliament . I have the privilege of serve on the Bill Committee early this year , and there be cross - party support and unity on progressively ban the sale of tobacco product forever . it be a joy to see the UK become a world leader in this area of public health , and I put on record my thank to my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Edgbaston ( Preet Kaur Gill ) and Dame Andrea Leadsom for the excellent bipartisan work that they do to progress the Bill before it fall as a result of the general election be call . I sincerely hope that it progress to Royal Assent this time . the final Bill I wish to comment on be the draft equality ( race and disability ) Bill , which will enshrine in law the full right to equal pay for ethnic minority and disabled people , and introduce mandatory ethnicity and disability pay reporting for large company . I sincerely hope that where there be any disparity , employer take the appropriate action to address their failing and close the gap . the King ' s Speech be an exciting beginning for the Labour Government , who be keen to make a real difference to people ' s life , include those of my constituent in Southgate and Wood Green . the starting gun for national renewal have be fire , and we have get off to a fly start . I hope that the pace of change continue and that we see positive , long - last benefit in housing , community safety , health and equality for all . I congratulate the Deputy Prime Minister and welcome she to her place , and I welcome the shadow Secretary of State as well . because we be talk about local government today , I declare my interest as a vice - president of the Local Government Association . the topic of today ' s debate be plan , the greenbelt and rural affair . we need to talk about planning and housing , and I will certainly do so , but we also need to talk about rural affair , and I be slightly confused about why none of the speech by Front Benchers have do that . I welcome the Government ' s focus on house building and the reintroduction of housing target . in England , the number of people leave languish on the social housing waiting list have reach 1 . 2 million , and there be 8 . 5 million people in this country with some form of unmet housing need . last year , under the Conservative Government , 29 , 000 social home be sell or demolish , and few than 7 , 000 be build , so we all know that we have an unprecedented need for new housing , particularly social housing . the Liberal Democrats ' ambitious commitment on social housing would be to build 150 , 000 social home a year by the end of this Parliament — just not in your seat . the hon . Gentleman be mutter from a sedentary position . he may wish to know that my grandparent live in social housing , and I have no particular prejudice against it whatsoever . we be commit not only to build the home that be so important to ease the crisis throughout the housing market , but to ensure that those new home be of a high standard , that they be zero carbon and that they be build alongside proper infrastructure that provide community with the service and amenity they need . integrate public service delivery have to be part of the planning process , so in principle we welcome the Government ' s plan to streamline the delivery of critical infrastructure , include in the housing sector , in the forthcoming planning and infrastructure Bill , but we need to be clear that the current system have benefit developer rather than community . the Bill must take that into account . crude target alone have lead to many development be give permission , only for affordable and social housing element to be water down on the basis of viability once permission be grant . that must change . we know that local authority be well place to make the decision about housing in their area , so I urge the Government to ensure that their mandatory housing target be build from the bottom up — by determine the type of housing and infrastructure community need , and empower local government to build social home where they be most need . we need the necessary infrastructure , include GPs , school , bus stop and bus route , while also ensure that there be appropriate green space and access to the countryside , which be important for health and wellbeing . our experience be that resident support good plan with good infrastructure . now , I imagine that we will use the term " nimby " in this debate , and it have already be use about the Liberal Democrats , but it be not appropriate to approve housing in area that be unsuitable — for example , where there be a high risk of flooding . it be not be a nimby to oppose poor planning ; it be common sense . local authority be under enormous pressure and we know that their planning department be overstretch . I welcome the Deputy Prime Minister ' s comment on that point . they need proper funding to ensure that they make good and consistent decision , and that their councillor be well advise . the hon . Member be talk about infrastructure and about decision be make in the good interest of our community , so can I ask why Liberal Democrat - run Rutland county council this week turn down an application for a new day care centre for people with special educational need without even take it to the planning committee , mean that we now have to rely on the council ' s service , rather than provide choice to ensure that anyone with learn disability or other disability in our community get the support they need ? I do not know the detail of that individual case , but we need to ensure that planning department be properly fund so that the decision make by planning officer be appropriate . without know the detail , I do now know whether it be a good development or a poor one , but those department need to be empower to make decision correctly . some proposal for development be inappropriate and some be downright dangerous — we mention the building of house on floodplain early . the only insurer to re - insure house on floodplain be due to close its operation in 15 year ' time . we can not build house on floodplain . it will not be possible for they to be insure or sell ; homeowner will be trap . we should also not be build housing development without additional school or GP surgery . most importantly , we should not be build housing development where the developer do not prepare the road and green space to an acceptable standard and do not allow they to be adopt by the local authority , but set up a share management company and leave the homeowner fleece for the rest of their home ownership experience . I encourage the Deputy Prime Minister to consider that in the forthcoming legislation . good councillor approve plan for good development . that be why , on the day when the Conservatives be not accuse we of be nimbys , they be tell people that we be go to concrete over their countryside . planning be not just about housing . we have many demand on our countryside : housing , renewable energy , nature restoration and , importantly , the grow of food . we need to simplify plan so that all those thing can happen . housing , renewable energy and job creation be incredibly important , but I urge the Government to ensure that when they go ahead , it be not at the expense of food production . the Liberal Democrats have call for the development of a land use strategy so that these important and compete demand can be balance , and so that we use land in the optimal way , protect the high grade arable land for food production and put the infrastructure of renewable energy and housing in less prime place . I therefore hope that the Government will consider a land use strategy as part of their planning reform . that bring I to another important area of the countryside : our waterway and our beach . it be a scandal that raw sewage have be allow to be dump into our river and on to our beach , while water company executive have take home huge bonus and their — often overseas — shareholder have take huge dividend . the Liberal Democrats be proud to have lead the campaign to end the sewage crisis . we welcome the water ( special measure ) Bill and will be watch closely to ensure that the water regulator be give the power it need to finally end this sewage outrage . I will move on to rural affair . there be no mention in the King ' s Speech of rural community or priority for the countryside , which I hope mean that the new Government will be ensure that every policy be rural - proof and that the demand of deliver public service in rural area , where the population be spread over a large area , be be consider . I also want to mention the english devolution bill . the Liberal Democrats be the proud voice of local community and community - lead politic , and we absolutely welcome step to devolve power away from Westminster , but I ask the Secretary of State to confirm what that will look like for those council without a devo deal , a metro mayor or a combine authority mayor . it be important that all local council have the power and funding to deliver for their community . that funding must reflect the cost of deliver service in rural area . rural council have be take for grant for far too long . we need to ensure that people who live in rural area , who also see increase in their council tax , be get the public service that they deserve . rurality affect the delivery of all type of service , but I want to touch on just a few key area . health be an important issue in my North Shropshire constituency , where we have see huge problem with gp and dentistry access and a crisis in our A & E service . while I welcome the Government ' s plan to tackle the crisis in mental health service provision , which be also a big problem in rural area , we really want to see rural - focus policy to deal with the recruitment crisis in rural area and the cost of deliver health service over large distance , and to ensure that people who live a long way from a hospital or diagnostic centre can travel to it more easily . that bring I to public transport , which be quite problematic in Shropshire . we have lose 63 % of our bus mile since 2015 , which make it difficult for anybody to access work opportunity , social opportunity , educational opportunity and , indeed , health service . I be really pleased that the Government will allow local authority to franchise their own bus service — the liberal Democrats have long call for that — but I would like to see the detail of how that will work and how we will get the funding to kick - start those route and get labour move properly around our countryside . order . can the hon . Lady bring her remark to a close , please ? of course . I be briefly go to mention mobile signal , but I will rush over that because I have talk about it a reasonable amount in the House . I want to talk about farming and the rural economy , because that be the backbone of our economy and food production be extremely important . farmer have face a crisis over the last few year , with the botched introduction of the environmental land management scheme , the input cost they face and the fact that vast tract of farmland be underwater and have be for the last 18 month . I must encourage the Government to look at trade deal to ensure that farmer be work on a level playing field , and to ensure that the sustainable farming incentive deal with the consistent problem of flooding follow prolonged rainfall , give how our farmer be store an enormous amount of water upstream . I will draw my remark to a close because I be keen to hear the maiden speech of all these new Members , who I welcome to this place . to reinforce the point I have make , community - lead planning be so important , and we would love to see a land use strategy . we need to ensure that the cost of deliver public service in rural area be properly consider and fund , and the infrastructure need to be there . finally , please do not forget about food security , which be so important to national renewal . I call Sam Rushworth to make his maiden speech . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker , for allow I this opportunity to make my maiden speech during the King ' s Speech debate . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Southgate and Wood Green ( Bambos Charalambous ) for his excellent contribution , as well as the hon . member for North Shropshire ( Helen Morgan ) . like she , I represent a rural constituency , and I recognise many of the issue she raise in my own community . I also want to thank my predecessor , Dehenna Davison , for her service . in her maiden speech , she describe Bishop Auckland as England ' s " most beautiful constituency , " and on that point we agree . she be a formidable campaigner who do important work to raise awareness of migraine , lobular cancer and the danger of one - punch assault . although she already have the accolade of be the first ever Conservative MP for Bishop Auckland , I hope that , in decade to come , her legacy will be even more impressive as the only ever Conservative MP for Bishop Auckland . if the House will indulge I for a moment , I would like to say a little about the place I call home , the people who live there and what make they so special . get my priority in order , I will start by talk about football . I have be look forward to singe " one general election and one european cup " this summer , but that be not to be . I be gutte that our England team do not quite make it , but football do come home in 1909 , when West Auckland become the first football team to win the world cup . that be true , and you can look it up . another important footballe moment come in 1958 , when Bishop Auckland ' s amateur football club famously provide player to help Manchester United fulfil their fixture follow the Munich air disaster . I be really touch when I meet Barry , who volunteer at the local Bishops football museum . I listen to his passion as he share how a gentleman with dementia come in and recognise himself in an old black and white photograph . they develop a friendship as he use football memorabilia to help that gentleman reminisce and reconnect with his past . I be similarly grateful to other in my constituency who give up their time to run sport club , whether it be football , rugby , cricket or boxing , provide opportunity for young people to exercise , connect and enjoy themselves . secondly , I have to mention railway . it be in Shildon , in the south - east of my constituency , where Stephenson invent the Rocket locomotive , make Stockton to Darlington the world ' s first commercial railway line 200 year ago next year . it be inspiring to see the commitment of local volunteer who work together to preserve this heritage , care for part of the line and organise bicentenary event . likewise , it be inspiring to see those who work to save the Shildon Railway Institute , which be set up by work people nearly two century ago , with a library and school room to upskill the local workforce for the new industrial age . thirdly , we be bless with fabulous art and culture in Bishop Auckland , which be the home of Stanley Jefferson , of Laurel and Hardy fame . it be also believe to be where Elgar first play the anthem " Land of Hope and Glory . " and how grateful I be to the volunteer who give their time to enable participation in the art : Daisy Arts , Jack Drum , the Teesdale operatic society , the Weardale Warblers and " Kynren , " England ' s most spectacular outdoor theatre production . the work they do be not only develop talent but build the character and confidence of the rise generation . fourthly , we have magnificent countryside . under the new boundary , the constituency bring together two Durham dale — Weardale and Teesdale — around the market town of Barnard Castle , which be not only a handy place to test your eyesight but be also an idyllic place to stroll along the river with your family on a sunny Easter bank holiday , surround as it be by hill sheep farm and moorland that be home to rare wildflower and endanger ground nest bird . I be full of admiration for those who work on the land and put in the graft to keep this place so lovely and to provide we with food . without wish to disappoint the right hon . member for North West Essex ( Kemi Badenoch ) , when I recently meet local farmer they be delighted to see that Labour be bring in planning reform and lift the ban on onshore wind . finally , Bishop Auckland have a long connection with the Church . Auckland castle serve for century as home to the Prince Bishops , while the seventh - century Escomb Saxon church be one of the old in England and stand as a monument to the devotion of the man and woman who build it more than a millennium ago . what I find equally inspiring be the work do by church in our community today , such as Woodhouse close church and community centre and Shildon Alive , which recently receive the King ' s award for voluntary service . what make Bishop Auckland so special to I be the people I live among . People who have stand together in hard time , people who take pride in their neighbourhood and people who serve without thought for themselves . if I might make a slightly more political point as I draw to a close , we have just accept the decline of northern heartland like Bishop Auckland for too long . I live in the town centre , where one in three shop be board up . our local business be excited to see the power that this Government will devolve to local authority to compulsorily purchase some of those building . we will hand they over to business and we will get our town centre boom again . finally , I be proud to be a Member of the most representative Parliament in our history , with the high percentage of woman , minority and state - educate member . there be also , on all Benches , some exceedingly talented people . it be already clear to I that while I will be bold in speak up for my constituent , there will always be someone more gifted in oratory or more learn . however , I hope that if I can excel in anything , it will be in show kindness and respect to my fellow Members , to the incredible staff who have do so much to make I feel welcome in this rather strange place , and to my constituent who I hope will always know , whatever our disagreement , that I love and care about they . I congratulate the hon . member for Bishop Auckland ( Sam Rushworth ) on his maiden speech . we be all much more knowledgeable about his constituency now than we be a few minute ago , so well do for that . I acknowledge that the planning system be in need of reform . we can not have a process that take month — in many case , year — for major project , crucial to economic growth and associated job , to grind through an endless system . in my constituency , most such project be locate in an area that is , and have be for many year , mainly industrial . although we should not trample on local opinion , we have to get those project through the system more quickly than we do at the moment . the Gracious Speech include this : " my Government believe that great devolution of decision making be at the heart of a modern dynamic economy and be a key driver of economic growth and my Ministers will introduce an English Devolution Bill . legislation will be introduce to give new power to metro mayor and combined authority . this will support local growth plan that bring economic benefit to community . " — [ Official Report , 17 July 2024 ; Vol . 752 , c . 39 . ] of course we need to increase the supply of housing , but how do Ministers square devolving decision make with strengthen central direction of the planning process and tie the hand of planning authority ? the labour manifesto say that the Government would " make full use of intervention power " . that do not sound like good news for local democracy . experience from my constituency show that local community will , in most case , accept more housing development , but they make the justifiable complaint that recent development in all part of my constituency , from Humberston , through New Waltham , Waltham , Scartho , Laceby , Wootton and Barton , to name just a few , mean that the already stretch highway infrastructure and public service , such as school place , GPs and the like , be now stretch beyond what be acceptable . what assurance can minister give that they will ensure new build will run in parallel to the provision of infrastructure and public service ? another aspect of the planning process that anger people be that many appeal be determine by plan inspector who frequently overrule council decision that have be make after careful consideration of local circumstance . in some case , such decision have even overturn the local plan . that be not acceptable . local plan go through various stage of consultation , include public hearing , all of which pass by the overwhelming majority of the public , until an application be lodge that could change the whole character of the neighbourhood . clearly , the process need to be review , as I have previously argue , include in a ten - minute rule Bill I introduce some year ago . if devolution and local decision making be to mean anything , planning issue should be determine at a local level , wherever possible . the shadow Secretary of State mention that there be current Ministers who lodge objection to planning application for development in their own area . that go under the radar to some extent while they be in opposition , but now there be no hiding place for they . every Labour Member who vote for propose planning change to some village or some part of the town will have to justify not support their constituent when they be up in arm about the application . as someone who spend their childhood and early adulthood in a council house on a Grimsby estate , I have always support the ability of local authority to build council house where that be appropriate . the one that I live in be build in the early 1950 when a Conservative Government be in power . they be of high quality and have stand the test of time . sadly , that be not the case for much of the social housing that be impose on new development . I certainly would support the government if they have a programme to encourage and support council in house building , but I would be interested to know how they would finance it . one proposal that be cause considerable concern , not just in my Brigg and Immingham constituency , but in many other constituency along the east coast of Lincolnshire and through into East Anglia , be the National Grid upgrade on the Grimsby to Walpole route . these proposal could result in a network of 50 - metre - high pylon run through some of the country ' s most beautiful countryside , include impact on the Lincolnshire Wolds area of outstanding natural beauty . I secure the final Adjournment debate on this matter before the election and the then Minister say that he be minded to order a review of the scheme . I urge the Government to honour that commitment and follow through with that review . finally , let I return to devolution and the policy to create more combined authority . the proposal for the Greater Lincolnshire Authority have already pass through all stage of consultation , and a statutory instrument have be prepare , but , unfortunately , the election intervene . I say to the Deputy Prime Minister that this be an opportunity for an early win in her wish to create combined authority . if she be to put forward that SI , I think most of the Lincolnshire mps would give she some support . I call Dr Scott Arthur for his maiden speech . I be oblige to you , Mr Deputy Speaker , for give I the opportunity to make my maiden speech . I would like to start by thank the hon . member for Brigg and Immingham ( Martin Vickers ) for a fantastic speech , but I fear that he have make my job only a little more difficult . I have to say that it be a delight to give my maiden speech in a debate lead by our fantastic Deputy Prime Minister . it be an honour and a privilege to stand before this House as the representative for Edinburgh South West . I be deeply grateful to my constituent for place their trust in I and also to my church for pray for I , although I know that they pray more after I win the election than before it . I be committed to serve they all with dedication and integrity . before I address the subject matter of the King ' s Speech , I would like to pay tribute to my immediate predecessor , Joanna Cherry KC , who represent the constituency for nine year . I have many dealing with her office in my role as a councillor , and I away find her team to be utterly professional . I wish they all well . Joanna Cherry herself be a formidable parliamentarian . member will recall that , during the Brexit crisis , she work hard to ensure that Government decision making remain transparent and subject to parliamentary scrutiny . we all owe she a huge debt for that . I must also say that , although I disagree with she on many issue , I be happy to stand in complete solidarity with she in the face of the threat that she have face . it pain I that , since come here , so many other have speak about threat and intimidation as well . this be an issue that we must take seriously . I must , however , tell the House that the campaign for Edinburgh South West between Joanna Cherry and myself be conduct entirely on the issue that matter to local people there , which be perhaps why I be so proud to be here to address the House today . I must also pay tribute to my predecessor ' s predecessor . Alistair Darling be one of the great public servant of my lifetime . he sit here from 1987 to 2015 . like I , he be a councillor in Edinburgh , and convener of the city ' s transport committee before he go on to serve as MP for Edinburgh South West . the similarity may end there . indeed , we must all hope that I be never call on , as he be , to save the Bank of England . I know that Alistair be still much miss and I be proud to follow in his footstep — indeed , without his help I doubt that I would have be elect as a councillor in 2017 . before I address myself to the debate , I would like to take the opportunity to pay tribute to my constituency , its institution and its people . at this point , member may need a map . Edinburgh South West be the good part of the great city in the world . it stretch from the west end of Princes Street to the East Cairn hill , some 18 km to the south - west . along its length , the constituency move from dense urban community — place such as Gorgie , the home of Hearts football club , Dalry , Parkhead , Wester Hailes , Sighthill and Oxgangs — to suburban settlement such as Colinton , Craiglockhart , Swanston and Baberton Mains , and to the semi - rural Water of Leith village of Currie , Juniper Green and Balerno . of all those , Oxgangs be perhaps the place I know and love most . many people there struggle in temporary and overcrowded accommodation ; that be why it have be so important today to hear about the Deputy Prime Minister ' s ambition to build affordable home . in Edinburgh , we have work with the whole city and set aside land for 37 , 000 new home . the land be there and the planning be there , but the barrier to build those new home be the lack of funding from the Scottish Government . I hope that they can now follow what we be do here , and show more ambition on affordable housing in Scotland . when it come to natural beauty , the Pentland hill and the Water of Leith dominate my constituency , and the habitat along the Union canal should not be forget . but of course it be the people who make my constituency so special , such as those who volunteer at the Water of Leith Conservation Trust or who convert a disuse railway tunnel into Scotland ' s large historical mural — the Colinton tunnel ; please google it later . I must also mention Tiphereth , a unique charity that deliver residential and day service for people with learn difficulty . it really be unique . the Edinburgh campus of Heriot - Watt University be perhaps the big employer in my constituency . it support and develop I every day from when I start work there in 1996 until I be elect to this place . I shall miss my civil engineering colleague and the many student it welcome to Scotland from around the world . I hope to use some of my time here to support high education , particularly the wellbeing of student . mental health support in Scotland be fail its young people and act as a barrier to many of they reach their full potential . I will work with anyone and everyone to address that and the many other challenge face student across the UK . other large employer in my constituency include Lothian Buses , a bus company own by the people of Edinburgh that define the city just as much as the castle . I should stress that the castle be not in my constituency . if some member question municipal ownership of public transport , or the importance of collaborative work between trade union and management , they should speak to some of the 2 million passenger that Lothian Buses carry every week without any subsidy . big business be also important in my constituency , but it be the small one that define it . they be at the heart of many of the neighbourhood . many have high hope that the UK and Scottish Governments will now work together to support they more . I be also proud to say that there be two infantry barrack in my constituency : Dreghorn and Redford . both be value by local resident as real asset , and they never cause I a problem as a councillor . the proposal in the King ' s Speech for an armed force commissioner will be support by many in my constituency , particularly if it help improve the living quarter for our service personnel and support spouse at the point of relationship breakdown , particularly when domestic abuse have be an issue . election be a reminder that we be all equal in this country , but it pain I that many constituent feel that they be less equal than other during the election campaign . that be why local group in my constituency such as Soul Food Oxgangs , Best Bib n Tucker and Whale Arts must be mention in my speech , as they all work hard to ensure that people feel include and value . that be our job too , of course — indeed , all of we here have a duty to keep on listen to voter now that the election be over . the first - past - the - post system mean that I be elect on just 40 . 9 % of the vote — I still can not believe it , to be honest — and I know that some of those voter still want to be reassure that they do the right thing . I be here only because I promise to work with other party where possible , and to listen to everybody in my constituency , no matter their sex , gender , background , faith , age or birthplace . I will keep listen to people , even if they vote for my opponent or do not vote at all . we know , of course , that the people who need our help most do not vote for we . among they be the 3 , 000 child in my constituency who be live in poverty . that number have grow across the whole UK since Labour last sit on the Government Benches , and that should shame we all . I know the cost measure in the King ' s Speech be our good chance of change those life . measure such as GB Energy , build more home , a new deal for work people and our plan for sustainable economic growth will not just get our country back on track and help we to meet our climate target , but give parent hope again of a well future for their child . the child poverty taskforce be an opportunity to maximise the benefit of those policy by integrate their delivery . that be the change our country need and vote for , and we must now work together across this Chamber to deliver it . I congratulate the hon . member for Edinburgh South West ( Dr Arthur ) on his maiden speech . it be wonderful to hear he champion so many local charity and cause , particularly for young people . it be great to hear that he care about the mental health and wellbeing of young people . I also congratulate the new hon . member for Bishop Auckland ( Sam Rushworth ) on his speech , and his drive - by of the entire constituency and the wonderful thing that people can see and experience in his patch . what I love about both speech be that both hon . member put their constituent first and talk about be a local champion . I will support anyone , whatever party or part of the House they be from , who want to put their constituent first and be an advocate for they in this House . on that subject , I be here because the people of Beaconsfield , Marlow and the south Bucks village send a clear message to I during the general election that they want I to stand up and defend the green belt . I make a promise to they back in 2019 and again in 2024 that I would stand up and defend the green belt . I will continue to do so . for my constituent , the green belt be not just special ; it be vital . it act as the lung of London . it be vital because for my constituent it be the buffer between the sprawl of London and Slough ; because green space provide much - need mental health and wellbee space for my constituent ; and because it provide the biodiversity and nature conservation area that we need between London and the home county . it be essential that we protect nature , and I want to be a champion for that as well . once our green belt be lose , it be lose forever and we can not get it back . I want to be clear : I believe in the right housing , in the right place , with the right infrastructure . it be entirely a false prospectus to think that people who defend the green belt be somehow anti - growth and anti - housing . that be not true . here be the truth : the Government seem determined to deny that the green belt be green space , but any attempt by the Government to use some orwellian twisting of word to make it grey belt will fail in the sunlight of simple truth . in Marlow in my constituency , we fight together with local community group to stop the marlow film studio be build on green - belt space . we work tirelessly to protect the green belt , so that future generation could enjoy that beautiful green area . we fight as a community , and the proposal be rightly reject . if the Government try to bring it back , I and the resident will fight it every inch of the way . the Government establish their intent in their first three day of existence : the Government know good and community will be ignore . the Chancellor — not , funnily enough , the Deputy Prime Minister — announce that the Government be call in an application , reject by planner and the Planning Inspectorate , to build a data centre in the Ivers , right up against London . it be a blatant attack on local opinion and professional planning officer . do Ministers really believe that there be no well site for a data centre than directly on the only green belt that separate we from London ? I say to the government : you will soon discover that you be on the wrong side of this debate . our green belt in south Bucks be not a political , ideological prize to be win . resident will make their voice hear , and I will be right there by their side . it matter to my constituent and the generation to follow who will grow up and live in the beautiful area of Beaconsfield , Marlow and the south Bucks village . I urge the Government to think again . leave our green belt alone . I call Emma Foody to make her maiden speech . I thank the hon . member for Beaconsfield ( Joy Morrissey ) , who speak passionately about her community . it have be wonderful to hear so many member make their maiden speech today and over the precede day , speak with great pride about their constituency . I stand here today represent my home constituency of Cramlington and Killingworth , and I speak with similar pride . it be the place that generation of my family have hail from , work in and love , and it be a great honour to represent it here today . my home , and where I grow up , be a little place call Wideopen . it be once represent by Margaret Bondfield , a giant of our Labour movement . she be a shop worker and trade unionist who be the first ever woman in the Cabinet . as a former shop worker , and a trade unionist and Co - operative Member , it be pleasure for I to see in the Gracious Speech provision for the protection that shop worker deserve and need in order to make our high street strong . Cramlington and Killingworth constituency be newly form at this election . dominate by our two new town , the seat be make up of a further 25 village and settlement — every single one a community in its own right . although I do not propose to list each and every one of they now , I will fight for the support and success of they all . our area and our community be place of industry , innovation and creativity . whether through coalmine , factory or the art , my community have contribute a lot that have put it on the map . there be a certain mention today for George Stephenson , the father of the british railway . although the Rocket might be in Shildon , he learn his trade and start his invention in my constituency , where my ancestor work alongside he to build our railroad . colleague may recall that in " whatever happen to the likely lad ? " — a favourite of yours , I be sure , Mr Deputy Speaker — Bob and Thelma ' s new starter home on a nice new estate be in Killingworth . we also have notable public art in the shape of a giant spoon , a herd of concrete hippos , and a Lady of the North in Northumberlandia . member my age may recall the absolutely iconic BBC child ' s tv programme " Geordie Racer " . Spuggy and Wordy get up to hi - jink at Seaton Delaval hall , our stunning National Trust property . I be sorry that those familiar with the programme will now have the theme tune in their head all day . more recently , those who watch the popular detective show " Vera " may have notice the stunning coastline and cliff ; all too often , a body be find at the bottom of they . those cliff and beach , along the coastline of south - east Northumberland , include Seaton Sluice and Old Hartley , be second to none , and they be ours . the crime rate be much low than ITV would have we believe . as be tradition , I will pay tribute to the previous mps , but as mine be a newly create constituency , I pay tribute not to one but to four current and previous member of this House . I will start with my predecessor but one , Ronnie Campbell , who be the MP for Blyth Valley for over 30 year and a great friend to many in this place . locally , we still feel his loss . Ian Levy be elect as the first ever conservative for Blyth Valley in 2019 . I know that he care deeply for our area , and that he will want it to prosper and our community to thrive . my right hon . friend the Member for Tynemouth ( Sir Alan Campbell ) , of course , be also our Chief Whip . it say here in my speech that he have show I great kindness and generosity , which I can only assume be a late whip Office edit . in all seriousness , he have be a great support to I . finally , I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Members for Newcastle upon Tyne North ( Catherine McKinnell ) and for Newcastle upon Tyne East and Wallsend ( Mary Glindon ) , who be both phenomenal advocate for the north - east , and from whose constituency we take a variety of town , settlement and village . when I first get involve in politic , I be warn that it could be a boy ' club . well , those people underestimate the girl of Sacred Heart high school , which all three of we attend . there , we be tell in no uncertain term that place like this be mean for people like we . to serve alongside my hon . friend be a tremendous privilege . I be proud to be in this place today , and to be able to speak on behalf of my community on this most gracious Speech — a wide - range set of commitment and action that I know will deliver , not only for my community but across the country , and not just in housing and , crucially , leasehold reform but for our economy , our energy security and policing . I be particularly proud of the measure to support our national health service . as a former 999 call taker at the North East Ambulance Service , I know how my former colleague work tirelessly to serve people , often in the most challenging and desperate of circumstance . it be an honour to be here and to have their back in this place . I believe passionately in the measure in this most gracious Address , which we fight so hard to earn the country ' s support for , and I can not wait to get to work . I call Harriet Cross to make her maiden speech . thank you for call I to speak , Mr Deputy Speaker . it be an honour to follow the hon . member for Cramlington and Killingworth ( Emma Foody ) — she be clearly very proud of her root and of what she have achieve in the area . it be lovely to follow another girl from the north - east — although in my case it be the north - east of Scotland . it be an incredible honour to be elect to this place to serve the great people of Gordon and Buchan . have move home many time in my lifetime — more than I can remember — from Yorkshire to Ireland to Scotland and many time in between , I have see my fair share of house , but I can definitely say that this one will take the most getting use to . as member be all aware , you be not a true Scottish MP if you do not proclaim that your constituency be the most beautiful , so : from the beach of Balmedie and Newburgh through the fertile farmland of Formartine , Garioch , Huntly and Turriff , to the height of the Correen hill and the Bennachie range , Gordon and Buchan have it all . I can tell Members in all seriousness that it really be the most beautiful constituency , and not just in Scotland but in the whole of the UK . those of we who be bless to live north of the Watford gap know that there be a direct correlation between how far north you get and be approachable and determine , have a dry sense of humour and be great company . as such , I be also delighted to say that I be the Conservative Member with the most northerly constituency . first , I must reflect on my predecessor , begin with the most recent Conservative Members from the two former constituency that have now be combine to make Gordon and Buchan : Colin Clark in Gordon and David Duguid in Banff and Buchan . both Colin and David be embed in our rural community . they be unwavere champion for our region , in particular be loud , constructive and prominent voice for our farmer , fisherman and distillery , and for the energy sector . I also want to take the opportunity to wish David Duguid and his family all the very good in his ongoing recovery . it would be wrong of I not to mention Malcolm Bruce , now Baron Bruce of Bennachie , who serve Gordon for 22 year up until 2015 . it be a show of the mark that he leave on the area that his name be mention to I on the doorstep many time during this election campaign , always very fondly . finally , the former SNP Member for Gordon and my immediate predecessor , Richard Thomson , have long serve the people of Gordon and Buchan and of Aberdeenshire , both in this place and on Aberdeenshire council as both leader and opposition leader . while he and I will not pretend that we see eye to eye on the mean , we both agree that we want the very good for our special corner of Aberdeenshire , now and in the future . much be achieve for Gordon and Buchan and the north - east of Scotland in the last Parliament . I wish to draw attention to the north - east investment zone , an £ 80 million investment in our region make as part of the last Conservative Government ' s levelling - up agenda . it be a real investment in our area ' s growth , development and potential — an investment in our future . the north - east shine with energy in every way . indeed , the energy sector be what first bring my family to Inverurie , the large town in Gordon and Buchan , 50 year ago this year . my grandfather , have be medically discharge from the Navy , never lose his love of service or the sea , so he channel that love into create in Aberdeen the International Association for Safety and Survival Training , whose course be still use today by each and every offshore worker in our oil and gas sector . I be sure that if he be still here today he could give I some sound advice on survive in this place . the energy sector power Aberdeenshire , from direct job and high - skilled employment to the associated service and hospitality sector that rely on it . to the people of Gordon and Buchan and the north - east of Scotland , the debate on the future of the oil and gas sector be not really about energy security , market or net zero ; it be about our job and our livelihood . it be about know that we have secure employment for the year to come and that our child will not have to move away to start their career , or that the bottom will not fall out of our local economy . I can not imagine that any hon . Member would sit here and allow their constituency ' s key employment sector to be run down or concede , and I will not do that either . our rural community be the beat heart of Gordon and Buchan . indeed , three quarter of the land in the constituency be class as agricultural , a fifth be forestry and only 2 % be think of as build up . if someone drop a pin on a map , it be more likely to land in a field or forest than on a house . before be elect , I work as a rural surveyor , meet farmer across Aberdeenshire , many of whom I be now proud to call my constituent . as intimidate as it might be be on the Opposition side look across at the Government Benches , that be nothing compare with sit at a farmhouse table try to tell farming client that no , their farm be not worth three time what they think it be worth or that their bad - for - wear heifer will not get top figure at next week ' s sale . I be delighted that my first contribution in the House be in this rural affair debate . I know , and my constituent know , that rural living be unique , rewarding and , in my opinion , far superior to urban life . we also know that it be not all about green field , welly boot and labrador , idyllic as that might sound . the reality be local wait in village such as Fyvie , Auchleven and New Deer for the only bus of the day , which never arrive . it be the only healthcare facility for many mile close down . it be child have to move away to build their career . it be poor - quality , unsuitable road . or it be the lack of housing , or house without gas , poor broadband and no phone coverage . we in the UK quite rightly hold our rural landscape up in light : our green and pleasant land , which bring ecological benefit as well as much - need tourism to remote area . but rural community be not there solely to be an escape or playthe for other ; they be where my constituent make their home and livelihood , and where they grow up and grow old . we need tailor policy for our rural community that help industry such as farming and food and drink producer , and the numerous small and medium - sized enterprise across Gordon and Buchan that bring so much not just to the immediate area but to the region and to the UK as a whole . yes , we be less densely populated and yes , understandably , we have less choice in service and on where to find work , but we have no less aspiration . I be proud to have be send here by the people of Gordon and Buchan to represent they , to fight for they , and always to keep their interest at the top of the agenda . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Gordon and Buchan ( Harriet Cross ) , who make an excellent maiden speech , which I enjoy . I also have to mention the excellent maiden speech from my north - east colleague , my hon . friend the Member for Cramlington and Killingworth ( Emma Foody ) — she represent a new constituency — and my hon . friend the Member for Bishop Auckland ( Sam Rushworth ) . I look forward to hear more from they in the week , month and year to come . have enter the House 19 year ago , I be honour to have once again be elect to serve my constituent in Washington and Gateshead South — another new constituency name . it be fantastic to see so many new face around the estate , and my door be always open if new member , or indeed old one , want to pop in for a bit of advice , a cup of tea , or just to see a friendly face . this King ' s Speech usher in a new era of government — one base on service of the people , and focus on build back trust in politic , which be greatly need , by , as state in the King ' s Speech , adhere to " the principle of security , fairness and opportunity for all . " we will start that process by bring in legislation to transform the right of every worker in this country . as a trade unionist , I believe that worker must have the right to access trade union representation , as well as the repeal of the disastrous minimum service level legislation , which fail to protect public service user and worker alike . we will ban all exploitative zero - hour contract that leave people in uncertain and unstable employment . we will definitively ban fire and rehire practice , which my hon . friend the Member for Brent West ( Barry Gardiner ) lead the way on tackle with his excellent private Member ' s Bill , which sadly do not make it . we will protect worker ' wellbee by end short - notice shift cancellation , and we will introduce the right to switch off , so that worker can enjoy a healthy , structured work - life balance — I think we could do with a bit of that sometimes as well . finally , we will establish right such as paternity pay and the right to challenge unfair dismissal as right from day one . the basic right of a worker be not a reward earn after year of service ; they be right from day one . the Government have already get the ball rolling , build on the excellent work of former Labour government to truly deliver devolved power . it be excellent to see that , just day after move in , the Prime Minister welcome all Labour and conservative metro mayor — thankfully , they be mostly labour — to Downing Street to discuss how to kick - start growth in all part of the country . nine time out of 10 , local knowledge be superior to departmental control , so it be only right that we bring power back to community . among the mayor invite to meet the Prime Minister be our excellent new Mayor of the North East , Kim McGuinness , who I have work with in my long - run campaign to reopen the Leamside line and extend the metro to Washington . I be sure that member have all hear I say this , but Washington be one of the large town in the UK without a direct rail link . [ interruption . ] it be . we see waste opportunity , with people unable to travel easily for work , school or university or even to see love one . to quote the former Conservative Member for Sedgefield , with whom I co - chair the Leamside line all - party parliamentary group , " without physical mobility , there can be no social mobility " — now that he be not here , I be go to nick that line . I be pleased that , with a Labour Government and a Labour mayor , that project will at long last become a reality . I grow up in a council house , and my family be totally reliant on social security . free school meal be a lifeline for we , but I know that , in many way , it be more important to have a warm , safe and secure house ; that be what save my family more than anything else . that be why , throughout this general election campaign and when I be listen to the King ' s Speech , I be so pleased to see Labour ' s commitment to build 1 . 5 million new home — not just house , but social and affordable housing — base on five key principle that will enable those house to turn into secure home , and those home to turn into stable and thriving community . we will also deliver for our child , with policy intend to tackle childhood health and obesity head - on . our plan to deliver free breakfast club in every primary school in England will ensure that kid can start school with a meal in their belly , ready to learn . but we know that child feeding do not start and end with the school day , so we will also tackle the crisis of youth nutrition outside school by restrict the advertisement of junk food and the sale of high - caffeine energy drink to child — both thing I long call for when I be shadow Minister for public health for four year , and shadow Minister for child and family for four year , and as the chair of the all - party parliamentary group on school food from 2010 . I could not welcome these development more fervently . we can not shy away from protect our child ' s health , which be why I also welcome our tobacco and vape Bill — carry on the work of the former Government , I have to say — to phase out smoking . that will ensure that our child live a healthy future . as we look to the come year of our government , I be excited not only to see these policy , and more , come to fruition and deliver the change that this Government be elect to bring , but to work with member across the House to deliver these thing together , because we need they for the benefit of all our constituent . unfortunately , because of the pressure on time , we have to reduce the maximum time for speech to five minute , but that do not apply to those make their maiden speech . it be a pleasure to be in the Chamber today , and I congratulate all new and return member on their election success . it be an honour to be back in this place and to be call to speak in this debate on the King ' s Speech . I start by thank my constituent in Aldridge - Brownhills for return I to this place for a fourth time . I thank the resident of Pheasey Park Farm , Park Hall , Nether Hall and Orchard Hills for return I for the first time follow the boundary change . there be much to consider in this King ' s Speech , and rest assure that I will welcome those element that benefit my constituent . however , my job on the Opposition Benches remain to get the good for my constituency and my constituent . where the Government ' s legislation and plan harm my constituency , I will stand up and be my constituent ' voice and fight for their interest . that bring I nicely on to the area that I wish to raise today . start with housing , we need home , but we need the right home , build in the right place and with the right infrastructure to support they and their community , and we need local decision making . what we do not need to see be swathe of house — the wrong home , in the wrong mix and in the wrong place , drive by top - down mandatory target . that be not nimbyism , but common sense . that be why I have always advocate for a brownfield - first approach , because the minute the green belt be release , that be it . when it be go , it be go forever , take away the integrity of our community and the sense of amenity and belong , which we all believe be vital . it concern I that while Government member say they will prioritise brownfield site — they have coin this phrase " grey - belt land " — to meet their target , they be also tell local authority to identify area with green - belt collar to build on . that surely be wrong . it simply risk nibble away at our green belt until it be go . the definition of green belt , in case we need a reminder , be that it be a buffer zone between town and between town and countryside . it be a planning tool to prevent urban sprawl . in the case of my constituency , it prevent we from be subsume into the suburb of a great Birmingham . the green belt be not a nostalgic vision , but a future vision for future generation . the former mayor , Andy Street , have a vision for it . it be thank to he , his leadership and his brownfield - first approach that we have see 16 , 000 new home build and thousand of job create on brownfield land , which have benefit many , include those in the Walsall borough . we need to see more of that approach . surely we should build out the brownfield site first before we release any green belt , with more financial incentive for land remediation fund . we also need to understand what the new Government mean by " grey belt " . be it simply another grey area ? I , for one , sincerely hope not . one specific area that I seek clarity on be the new power for compulsory purchase . I hope that can unlock some of the brownfield site . in my constituency , there be some small derelict site — often pub in town centre — so let we look at work with local community to unlock some of they . community also need transport . it be inherently link to community and be key to job and opportunity . the Government have set out that they will get Britain move , but I be deeply concerned , to put it mildly , that the new Labour Mayor of the West Midlands have say that he will review the decision for a train station in Aldridge . what have happen to the money that the former mayor Andy Street and I secure for that project ? in the absence of any confirmation that it will be complete on time by 2027 , within the budget allocate , I can only assume that the new mayor have no intention of deliver the project . it be 65 year since Aldridge have passenger train . today we have the track , freight train and the land for a car park . various partner be already work on it . it might not be a big deal to Mayor Parker , but it certainly be to the resident of Aldridge and to I . I be conscious of time , but I want to touch briefly on crime and justice , as they matter to my constituent . community need police officer and police station . I will continue my campaign to keep Aldridge police station . with a " for sale " board appear recently at Sutton Coldfield , it be time for the labour police and crime commissioner to come clean about his intention for Aldridge police station . we need our police station as a base for our local bobby , to increase the safety of our resident and to support our community — order . I call Luke Myer to make his maiden speech . have listen carefully to the debate on his Majesty ' s Gracious Speech , I be grateful for this opportunity to make my first speech in this Chamber . it be a privilege and an honour to represent the community of Middlesbrough South and East Cleveland , where I be bear and raise . much of this debate have seek to pit rural and suburban against each other , but as a representative of both , I know that we can deliver for both , and that be precisely what I expect this Government to do . distinguished predecessor have represent my seat . in maiden speech , politician often say that they stand on the shoulder of giant , but rarely be it so true as in my case . my predecessor , Sir Simon Clarke , be a giant not only in physical term but within his party , particularly in his admirable zeal for planning reform — an issue on which he campaign and stand up to his own party . it be fitting that today ' s debate place such emphasis on those reform . this Government be commit to build the home and infrastructure that this country need . measure such as the planning and infrastructure Bill will start to create the job and growth that we need . I will push for Teesside to be at the heart of that work . if the House will permit I , I would like to pay tribute to two other predecessor from my party . first , Tom Blenkinsop , who some in the House will remember , not only serve his party and constituency but serve his country in the Royal Military Police . Dr Ashok Kumar , who be mention by my hon . friend the Member for Stockton North ( Chris McDonald ) in his maiden speech , be my MP grow up . he be a tenacious constituency MP , whose model I hope to follow . Ashok once say that our constituency be a microcosm of british society . he be right . it be not particularly leave or right wing , but it be full of decent people who want the good for their family . our identity be complex . officially , we be in the north - east , but we be also proudly in Yorkshire , as part of the historic North Riding . we have be call Cleveland and Langbaurgh , and today we be tell that we be in the Tees Valley . whatever we call it , our home be an incredible place . my constituency sit between wildly different landscape at each point of the compass . to the north , we find the beach , where the North sea fret wash out over the seafront at place like Skinningrove . to the south , we leave the beautiful market town of Guisborough and meet the vast , wild purple of the North York moor . to the east be the rolling field of East Cleveland — rural North Yorkshire at its good . there be proud village and town from Loftus to Lingdale , Skelton to Stanghow , and Brotton , where I grow up . I be proud to be our constituency ' s first MP from the village , and I hope to serve they well . to the west , we find suburban south Middlesbrough , home to many work family and , in Marton , to the birthplace of one of this country ' s great explorer , Captain James Cook . if we venture far , those community give way to the tower chimney and snake pipe of industrial Teesside , once the beat heart of Britain ' s economy — the " infant Hercules " as Gladstone call it . it be home to a 300 - year economic relay race from one major industry to another : first fishing and agriculture , then coal , then iron and steel , and then chemical . the saying on Teesside be , " we build the world . " Steel forge in Teesside furnace find its way into the Sydney Harbour bridge and span the Victoria fall . when Churchill ' s war Cabinet meet in their underground bunker not far from here or when the ball hit the net at Wembley , it all happen under structure of Teesside steel . today , we be perfectly positioned for the green job of the future . we already produce around half the country ' s hydrogen . with the right industrial strategy , we can create job in hydrogen , carbon capture and storage , and clean power — wind , nuclear and solar — and in our port . if our engineering capability be harness , we can lead the world again . legislation such as the great british Energy Bill , the Crown Estate Bill and the planning and infrastructure Bill can deliver that . teesside be more than just a place ; it be the people . like steel , Teesside be an alloy — a meld of the different community that shape we , from the miner and the Methodists to the labourer who come from Ireland , ironworker from Wales , sailor from Japan , jewish refugee from the pogrom of Europe , trade unionist , chemical worker , and so on . these be the small and disparate atom that Teesside take on and blend into our culture , strengthen it into something solid and secure , bond together with value of fairness , respect and a collective responsibility to look out for the community . we see that today in so many local community organisation , from the Guisborough Bridge Association and East Cleveland Good Neighbours to the eco - shop we see in Marton , Coulby Newham and other place . we know what it be like to experience economic hardship ; we now have level of poverty and destitution that have not be see in decade . when time get tough , it be easy to fall into the habit of division and blame . it be much hard to take that common pain and channel it into a common purpose , but that be what teessider do good . it be there in time of economic shock , whether from globalisation or the global pandemic . it be there in the flood and the food bank . the instinct , the base code of the people of Teesside , be to come together and look out for those in need — community in the face of adversity . that be our spirit , embed like ironstone deep in our culture — the unbowed and unbroken spirit of the infant Hercules . that be what we be about . and with the power set out in these Bills , the devolution to take back control of service and the investment in the job of tomorrow , we can once again drive prosperity on Teesside and prosperity across Britain , rebuild our community and rebuild our country . I join the House in thank his Majesty the King and her Majesty the Queen for their dedicated service and continue example to we all . I welcome all the new member to this place and I congratulate the hon . member for Middlesbrough South and East Cleveland ( Luke Myer ) on his maiden speech . it be a great privilege to be return to this House , have serve the people of Rutland and Melton for four year . however , I be return to represent the wonderful people of Rutland , Stamford and the Harborough and South Kesteven village . I would like to take a moment to reflect on the new community I serve , because it may not be know that service run deep in south Lincolnshire . in world war two , our community on their own raise enough money for a Spitfire to fight for our country . it be also in our community where the apple drop for Sir Isaac Newton in 1687 . and a long , long time ago , Bytham castle be know to have a Lady Alicia , the lady of Bytham . I suspect I shall not be get that title . [ interruption . ] I bless you all ! it be also home to Easton walled garden , a place President Franklin D . Roosevelt describe as " a dream of Nirvana . . . almost too good to be true . " so it be no surprise that Stamford ' s honey stone street , whose pattern have essentially remain the same since Saxon time , often grace the page of the good place to live in this country . it be also a filming site for " Pride and Prejudice " , " the Da Vinci Code " and " Middlemarch " . most recently , Grimsthorpe castle be home to " Bridgerton " . somewhat uniquely for a parliamentary seat , Rutland and Stamford sit across three county , Leicestershire , Rutland and Lincolnshire , so I have my work cut out for I . what unite we be the rural landscape and tradition we share : our rural way of life embody in the field , farm and natural environment we be bless to inhabit and hope to bequeath to the next generation . but protect our green and pleasant land be not about sentimentality . our rural environment be the true workhorse of our country . Lincolnshire and Rutland alone produce 30 % of the UK ' s vegetable , 18 % of our poultry , 30 % of our turkey and 20 % of all english wheat . we be the agriculture super - producer of our country . yet the King ' s Speech offer very little for we . it continue in the same vein as the Labour party manifesto , which do not mention the word " rural " even once , by ignore the concern of rural community and ignore farmer . it have put forward a different approach to development , set out centralised power for Westminster to impose project on the countryside and strip away the voice of local people . the consequence of that approach be apparent last week when the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero impose three mega solar plant on community , two of which sit within Lincolnshire and Rutland . during the last Parliament , I consistently oppose the Mallard Pass solar plant and be dismay to see the Secretary of State wave it through after only three work day in the job . yesterday , he refer to himself as a " super - nerd " . I would never question his self - classification , but I do question how somebody could read over 3 , 000 page of quasi - judicial documentation in just that time , while also get to grip with a new Department . that perhaps explain why he miss or ignore the fact that even the Planning Inspectorate tell he to turn down one of those application . there be well - document link between Uyghur force labour and the primary developer behind Mallard Pass . Labour have say it want a renewal in public life and a focus on public service , but I ask where the sense of duty be to responsible and consider governance when decision be make , frankly , for a propaganda announcement to say what the Government have do in their first seven day — decision that solely affect conservative - vote community . together these three solar plant will remove 6 , 000 acre of good - quality agricultural land , the land that feed our country and power our nation . I want to delve more into the issue of slave labour . for year I have speak out against what be take place in Xinjiang . this House — include the new Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero — vote to declare what be take place a genocide . in opposition , Labour promise that should they become the party of government they would not only declare it formally a genocide , but would take the chinese Government to court — I look forward to update on that activity — but in government they have decide to carpet our countryside with solar panel produce by the blood of uyghur slave labourer . the company behind the Mallard Pass , Canadian Solar , be find by our Foreign Office to have the high complicity in Uyghur force labour . it have be sanction by the United States Government for its " ongoing campaign of repression against muslim minority group " . this be a company whose representative ring my office and ask what I want to drop my opposition . be that a company that we want operate on our land ? I congratulate my hon . friend on her speech . do she agree that there would be full support on the Conservative Benches for measure to ensure that the supply chain for solar panel do not include slave labour ? I agree entirely with my right hon . friend , who have an incredible history as one of the great parliamentary advocate for tackle slave labour . will the Minister apologise , on behalf of the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , to the 32 anti - slave labour non - governmental organisation that oppose the Mallard Pass development . will he apologise to the british people for sign over thousand of acre of prime agricultural land to such a company , and will he apologise to the 3 , 400 people whose petition I present in the Chamber , with the high number of wet signature ever present in this Parliament ? do he accept that the loud statement make last week be not that we stand four - square behind renewable in this place but that we be give the green light to all company complicit in Uyghur slave labour to flood our country with bloody solar panel ? this Government be happy to go green on blood labour , and I will not stand for it . very briefly , in respect of rural economy , I want to express my absolute opposition to the Government ' s intention to charge vat on independent school . there be 10 in my community that employ more than 2 , 000 people and be attend by well over 1 , 000 child with special educational need . furthermore , one in five of my constituent who be military personnel or veteran send their child to those school . this be ideology and dogma , and there be also no plan to support our comprehensive school . my hon . friend be , again , make a very fine speech . she be talk not only about pressure on those family , but about any other family who will then see those child go to the state school in the area . my right hon . friend be , as usual , on point . in Rutland alone there be only three place for new child in year 9 . where be these child go to go ? why be the Government punish parent who want the good for their child ? before Labour Members try to suggest that I be an out - of - touch Tory , let I point out that my child go my local comprehensive , just as I do . however , I recognise that this be wrong for our country , wrong for our local education system , wrong for our military family , and wrong for those who rely on employment in our local school . it be dogma once again , and I expect well . the Government have show a degree of good grace and maturity in adopt some of the previous Government ' s Bills for their agenda . it be a sign of political strength for a Government to acknowledge that other party have good idea , and to adopt they during their time in power . may I suggest that , in order to fill the blank in their rural policy , the Government should look at our ? they should announce a £ 1 billion increase in the farming budget over the course of this Parliament . there should be reform planning rule to support farming infrastructure . the introduction of legally bind food security target should be at the heart of what the Government do , and they should recognise how much rural community contribute to our community . we provide the food that we eat , we offer an escape and access to nature , and we act as custodian for tradition stretch back deep into our history . I will work every single day for my community , and I hope that the Government will see sense and do the same . I be grateful for the opportunity to speak in the debate . let I first thank my constituent for return I to this place ; I be represent many of they for the first time . I wish to speak in support of the King ' s Speech , and to raise a number of point about issue that be important to my constituent and to many other across the country . the King ' s Speech set out nothing less than a programme for national renewal , present a chance for we to change our country for the well for the benefit of all its people , include my constituent in Reading . I want to draw on a series of example to show just how important these measure actually be . > I will start with the important area of infrastructure , include the need for data centre , onshore wind and new electricity connectivity . all be absolutely essential if we be to get our economy grow again after 14 year of very low growth and , indeed , austerity . build new home be vital for tackle the housing crisis , and I speak from great experience . resident in Reading be under severe pressure because of the high cost of purchase a house in the home county , the very high cost of renting and the grow population . thousand of local family be struggle to get on the housing ladder ; they be struggle both to buy and to find good - quality rental property . action to build on greyfield site and put brownfield site first be essential in try to tackle this huge problem , and I will give a short example from my experience as a local councillor . one of the hard thing that I ever have to do as a councillor be to try to help family who have be move out follow no - fault eviction . it be absolutely and utterly heartbreaking to see family with both parent in work struggle to find a new place to live after be move out by a landlord , which be the sort of issue that measure in the King ' s Speech will tackle . it be absolutely essential that we take this matter forward and deal with these really press social problem , which affect people across our country and which be dreadful for so many family , particularly in many of the town and city represent on the Government Benches . I would like to draw out a number of other measure that be important to my resident and other across the country , particularly the Government ' s commitment to legislate on knife crime . I have experience appalling case in my area , include the dreadful murder of a 13 - year - old boy . I can only say that my heart go out to any family affect by this appalling crime . the measure announce to tackle the problem through much tough action on knife , and to provide well support for teenager , be absolutely essential , and I hope they will be welcome by member of all party . I would also like to make a point in support of GB Energy . the Government be absolutely right to look at a new way to increase investment in green energy . we face an unprecedented crisis in the form of the climate emergency , and we must take action . it be simply vital that we move forward on this matter . rail renationalisation will make a huge difference to thousand of the resident I represent and , indeed , to people across the country . I echo many Members ' support for rail and public transport , which play a very important role in connect people across this country . finally , I thoroughly endorse and encourage the Government ' s action to promote football regulation , which be long overdue . some good work be carry out under the previous Government , and it be important that this continue . I hope that the legislation will support and help many club across the country that be struggle with enormous challenge , include my team , read football club . I look forward to hear more on this issue later . I be conscious of the time . I congratulate the many new member who have speak so eloquently today , and I thank you for the opportunity to speak , Mr Chope . I call Alison Griffiths to make her maiden speech . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker . it be a pleasure to follow so many excellent maiden speech today — I have be take note . it be a great honour to deliver my maiden speech as the Member of Parliament for Bognor Regis and Littlehampton . first , let I thank my wonderful association , my campaign team and all of those — they be too numerous to mention — who have help I on my journey to this place . let I also thank everyone I shall work with in the future in serve the people of Littlehampton and Bognor Regis . allow I to introduce my wonderful constituency . Bognor Regis have the accolade of have the most sunshine hour in Britain . William Blake , who live down the road in Felpham , encapsulate this when he write : " Heaven open here on all side her golden Gates " . resident can easily see that Blake ' s reference to " England ' s green and pleasant land " be surely inspire by his life there . on the other side of the River Arun , Littlehampton be renowned for its rich nautical heritage . the harbour be central to the town ' s identity , and the presence of the RNLI lifeboat station underscore the importance of maritime safety . Rustington add far to our rich tapestry . now home to Blind Veterans UK , Rustington be a model of community cohesion and local enterprise . its thrive high street , support by local business , be a testament to what can be achieve when we invest in our town and village . Bognor Regis and Littlehampton be a mosaic of vibrant village and community , from Aldwick and Rose Green to the rural charm of Yapton and the scenic setting of Middleton - on - Sea and Elmer . the industrious spirit of Wick and the agricultural heritage of Ford add to our picturesque patchwork . the beauty of Climping and the residential tranquillity of Felpham play a vital role in my constituency ' s identity . my predecessor , Nick Gibb , serve Bognor Regis and Littlehampton for 27 year with great distinction . his dedication to public service and to our constituent have set a particularly high standard , as many have tell I , and in this place and in government , his reform to education have improve the life of an entire generation , provide our child with the opportunity they need to succeed . today I stand before the House to discuss an issue of utmost importance to my constituent : opposition to inappropriate development , and the preservation of our green space . these area be not just stretch of land ; they be the lung of our community . they play a crucial role in combat climate change by act as carbon sink and promote biodiversity , by contribute to our national food security , and by provide essential green space for recreation , wildlife habitat and natural flood defence . in Bognor Regis and Littlehampton , the floodplain and green space be the very foundation of our local economic ecosystem . our constituency have already take more than its fair share of development and have feel the adverse impact as a consequence : increase frequent flooding ; exacerbate sewage discharge , into the very sea upon which our tourist industry depend ; our good beach close for swimming ; and the destruction of natural habitat . one of my goal be to secure the right community infrastructure to support the grow population in the home that have already be build . it be not enough to build new home . we must also invest in the necessary infrastructure — such as school , healthcare , wastewater treatment and transport link — to provide a high quality of life for all our constituent . I oppose Government plan for top - down mandatory housing target . such target disregard local constraint , impose unrealistic demand on our community . instead , I advocate for a more localise approach to planning , where decision be make with meaningful input from local resident and authority . I be deeply honour to represent the people of Bognor Regis and Littlehampton in this House . I be humble by the trust and confidence that the people of our community have place in I , and I pledge to serve they with integrity and dedication . let we all together rise to meet the soar challenge ahead . on that note , I invoke the word of William Blake one last time : " great thing be do when man and mountain meet " . I call Joe Morris to make his maiden speech . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker , and I thank the hon . member for Bognor Regis and Littlehampton ( Alison Griffiths ) . as the representative of the large constituency in England , I share her concern for rural community ; I share a dedication to they , and I be the product of one of they . first of all , I would like to thank the people of the Hexham constituency for place their faith in I this July and send I as their representative to this place . for many , it be their first time vote for my party , and I stand here as the first ever Labour MP for the constituency . it be an honour that I will never forget . I will work as hard as I can to repay that faith in the day , month and year ahead . I also want to pay tribute to my predecessor , Guy Opperman . have contest an election against he , I know that despite the fact that we disagree on many thing , he be an incredibly decent man . I be pleased to get to know he a bit during the campaign . I know that a high bar have be set for I as a constituency MP . he be consider on all side of the House to be an honourable man and a good public servant . it will be hard to match his legacy . I would like to depart a little bit from tradition and pay tribute to some of my predecessor as Labour candidate in the constituency , who for over 100 year have the often thankless task of fight to give the people of Hexham a Labour alternative to vote for . until July , Ian McMinn have come the close we ever get to win the constituency , and his daughter Kirsty propose I as the youth officer at my first ever Labour party meeting . I would also like to welcome the area that be add to the constituency , include the resident of Callerton and Throckley , who have be fantastically represent by my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle upon Tyne North ( Catherine McKinnell ) for many year . I hope to continue give that same service to Kenton Bank Foot , Throckley , Newburn , Callerton , Woolsington and Walbottle . Longhorsley ward be previously represent by both my hon . friend the Member for Blyth and Ashington ( Ian Lavery ) and the former Member for Berwick - upon - Tweed , both of whom also serve community in Hepscott , Morpeth ' s Stobhill estate and Felton in their way and be great servant to those community . I would not be here today if it be not for the education that I receive at Queen Elizabeth high school , Hexham middle school and the Sele first school in Hexham , from teacher like Alison Higgs , Robin Hodnett , Leanne Clarkson and Tony Webster . I know that a great state education have the ability to change life and to lift and change entire area . I want every child in the constituency to have access to the kind of education that I be lucky enough to get . Hexham constituency be name for the town of Hexham , which boast a wonderful abbey that have welcome worshipper and visitor for over 1 , 300 year . in that time , it suffer raid , include from the force of William Wallace . we also have one of the first ever purpose - build jail in England , and a farmer ' mart that be at the heart of our rural economy . but the constituency that I represent be much more than just one town . we extend from the cumbrian border , where my hon . friend the Member for Carlisle ( Ms Minns ) and I each represent half of the village of Gilsland , through the Tyne valley and across to Callerton and Throckley in Newcastle . in the north , we border Scotland , take in Kielder forest , where , rather aptly for England ' s large constituency by area , we have England ' s large forest . we be home to the large man - make lake in northern Europe , almost 580 square mile of internationally renowned dark sky , and the Northumberland national park . we then go to our southern border , where the Allen valley take in some of the most stunning scenery in England . we take in the Tyne valley line , Wylam , Prudhoe , Stocksfield , Riding Mill , Hexham , Haydon Bridge and Haltwhistle . we take in Ponteland and Darras Hall , and area as diverse as Slaley and Slaggyford . we have the UNESCO world heritage site of Hadrian ' s wall run through the constituency . I be in the unfortunate position , though , of be the first ever MP for Hexham not to be able to take visitor to see the iconic sycamore gap , which we so sadly lose to future generation last year . but the wall remain , as do the beauty that draw thousand of tourist to the constituency throughout the year , support the local economy in town like Haltwhistle — the centre of Britain — Bellingham , Kielder , Wark , Byrness and Otterburn . I hope to see hon . member from across the House walk the awe - inspire Hadrian ' s wall , enjoy the wonder of our dark sky , gaze at the beautiful Tyne valley from the train and take in the joy of community life at event like Ovingham ' s goose fair and the Northumberland county show . with that being say , it will be no surprise to many hon . member , or to the Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , who I be delighted to welcome to the constituency during the election campaign , that my constituency conjure image of the agricultural sector . we have a fantastic farming community . it have be my privilege to engage with those in it , and to get to know they over the election campaign . I know that the farming community represent the beat heart of our constituency ' s identity . I look forward to work with the Secretary of State , his Ministers and friend across the House to improve outcome for UK farmer and consumer , and to address the challenge that they face . as well as the agriculture sector , we have a large manufacturing base in the constituency . we have site like Egger in Hexham , which have a firm focus on the sustainability of the wood - base material manufacturing sector , and Essity in Prudhoe , which produce more than 800 million toilet roll a year . when we do our shopping , the odd be that we be elbow someone out of the way for some of Prudhoe ' s fine produce . I have work in the steel sector , and I know how important it be for the country to make thing , and how important well - pay , highly skilled job be to community like our . alongside our large manufacturing base , my constituency have a thrive small and craft brewery scene . I be delighted to take a break from the campaign trail to attend the Corbridge beer festival , which be all about raise money for good cause and charity . although there be a lot of beauty in the constituency , there be huge challenge as well . we have a great local health service , but every single week , I see the need for long - term solution to the social care crisis . elderly resident in isolated rural community be doubly disadvantaged , as they be hit by the rural cost of live premium and by poor public transport , and they be reliant on carer who be themselves struggle to make end meet . we also face an acute transport challenge . I think I be the third member to cite George Stephenson in their maiden speech today ; he be bear in Wylam . the constituency ' s bus be too infrequent , and its train be too regularly cancel . I will continue my predecessor ' s campaign to reopen Gilsland train station , and I look forward to work with friend across the House , and with my good friend Kim McGuinness , our Mayor of the North - East , to improve transport for our rural community . my constituency also face a dramatic housing shortage , with too many elderly people be unable to downsize into more appropriate home in community they know , and with young people be force to move away from where they grow up . for town like Barrasford and Humshaugh , as well as for large town such as Ponteland , this be a generational challenge . it be a huge concern for parent and grandparent , and it come up time and again on the doorstep during the general election . crime and antisocial behaviour also impact community — from west Newcastle and the town and village , to the small and most isolated community . I look forward to work with Susan Dungworth , our police and crime commissioner , on these matter . the cross - departmental rural crime strategy be so important . I have speak to sheep farmer out in West Woodburn who have be strike by the attempt robbery of their quad bike . the north - east be famous for its river , and the Tyne be one of the most important river in the country ' s history . it be the very artery of our industry . wherever I go , constituent demand that we clean up our river , and I be pleased to see that the Government have already get to work on deliver on that promise . I look forward to support that work as much as I can . at every door I knock on during the election campaign , I get the message for change . I know it be incredibly important to get on with that change by support the King ' s Speech , so that we become the confident , outward - look nation that we so evidently can be . I be conscious that we can not work miracle in this place , and as the first ever Labour MP for my constituency , I know that I be not send to this place with an expectation of overnight success . I be send here to get on with work with colleague across the House to deliver genuine outcome and genuine change for my constituent . I look forward to continue that service . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Hexham ( Joe Morris ) . I thank he for his full tribute to his predecessor , Guy Opperman , who be love on both side of the House . very early in my political career , in 1999 , when I be first elect as a councillor , my dad tell I that nothing in politic be quite as vex as the politic of the southern area planning committee of Test Valley borough council . he be right , but I reassure the Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , who be respond to this debate , that the council have already modernise its planning committee . it have already take great stride and , until the nitrate issue in the Solent hit we , it be one of the council deliver the high number of house in the country , but it have face challenge . I welcome the announcement on compulsory purchase order and the change that might come , but we need detail . I seek reassurance that the detail will come and will give real power to local authority , because Test Valley borough council have face a challenge since 1982 , when the Romsey brewery start its last brew . I be at school at the local primary school and I remember the smell well . that brewery site have an extant planning permission that have not be build out in the last 40 year . it be a phenomenal shame to the town that every time the local council have try to put place in a successful compulsory purchase order , the developer have simply start work on one more unit of accommodation to delay that from happen . give the part of the country that you be from , Mr Deputy Speaker , you may be familiar with Stanborough Developments , the company that bring that curse to Romsey . its action mean that we have a brownfield site in the middle of the town , with extant planning permission for a project that have never be finish , and that could be provide home for local people . I vividly remember a Westminster Hall debate on this subject back in 2019 , bring forward by my former right hon . friend the Member for Guildford , the great Anne Milton . that be the first occasion on which I have the dubious honour of try to both chair and speak in a debate . Alex Cunningham , the former Member for Stockton North , say that the Labour party would bring forward " penalty " for this sort of developer . I appreciate that it will require retrospective legislation , but I seek reassurance that the Labour Government will make good on the promise make by Mr Cunningham about extant planning permission , and that we will see developer like Stanborough suitably punish . I reassure colleague that I will not bang on about green belt this afternoon , for the good reason that there be no green belt in Hampshire , save for a tiny corner in the very south - west , design , as you will know , Mr Deputy Speaker , to prevent the spread of the urban conurbation of Bournemouth , which be in an entirely different county . we would love some green belt , but we simply do not have any . what we do have be an area that be under extreme water stress . we can not take our foot off the brake on building without also consider where the drinking water will come from . the Abbotswood development in my constituency frequently have to have water deliver by tanker because Southern Water repeatedly fail in its duty to provide water . it be not exclusively to blame , because although water company can be consult on development , they have no right to say no to it . they have no ability to say , " we simply can not deliver water to this development . " in area like the Solent , the situation will become increasingly challenging . I see in the page of the Daily Mail that the expectation be that southern Hampshire will take an enormous amount of development under this Government ' s plan . it can not do that if those home can not have a water supply . my right hon . friend talk about the need for proper infrastructure alongside development . in my Basildon and Billericay constituency , around Burstead , Billericay and Laindon , there be a lot of concern about huge infrastructure go in without local consent . do her constituent face that issue as well ? absolutely . infrastructure be key to make new development work , but we need to take community along with we , and to work hand in hand with they . in the debate , we have hear about village up and down the country ; they be the heart of our rural community . many village in Romsey and Southampton North have work incredibly hard to get their neighbourhood development plan in place , and hold local referendum to confirm they , but now they be scared that that work will go to waste . yet again , I seek reassurance from the Minister that that work will be uphold and cherish , because it will give we the scale and type of community that we wish to see . when local people have be involve in the process , the Government should not turn around and tell they that their view be now irrelevant , and that a development will be impose on they anyway . in the minute I have leave , I wish to make a couple of further point . over the last 48 hour , a number of issue have pop into my inbox . first and foremost , there be still a problem with the quality of new build . when house be throw up at speed , people be sometimes leave with significant build quality problem . one gentleman email I yesterday say that he have to spend £ 350 , 000 — fortunately , he have insurance cover that amount — to rectify the developer ' s problem . in my constituency , we have sometimes see house tear down because the build quality be not good enough . let we ensure that we do not see a repeat of that . while we be talk about new - build estate , can we solve the issue of estate management company rip off homeowner and not bring estate up to the quality need if the estate be to be adopt ? [ interruption . ] I can see that the Under - Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , the hon . member for Kingston upon Hull West and Haltemprice ( Emma Hardy ) , be take that on her shoulder . she should believe I . I will be beat a path to her door , because there be much that still need to be do to ensure that the housing that be deliver be of good enough quality for people to live in . I call Elsie Blundell to make her maiden speech . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker , for allow I to make my maiden speech during this debate . I be so proud to represent Heywood and Middleton North . it be a new constituency , comprise part of Rochdale and most of the former Heywood and Middleton seat , both in Greater Manchester . People from my constituency have long shape our parliamentary democracy . Heywood be the birthplace of Peter Heywood , famous for apprehend Guy Fawkes in the cellar beneath Parliament in 1605 . Middleton , too , have a famous son in Sam Bamford , the radical social reformer who lead a contingent of weaver from Middleton into Manchester in 1819 . their peaceful protest for political representation end in massacre at St Peter ' s Field . Spotland , in the rochdale part of my constituency , be home to a stone road widely know as Cotton Famine Road . it be a monument to the cotton worker who live there in the 1860 , and who bravely side with the Union cause during the american civil war . it be a selfless act , especially as the Union side at that time be prevent good from leave Confederate port . this result in a shortage of cotton supply — a cotton famine — and cause unemployment , poverty and hardship across Lancashire , but support for President Lincoln and his pledge to end the slave trade hold firm . the worker ’ campaign be support by Rochdale statesman and radical John Bright , of whom a sculpture can be find in the Lower Waiting Hall of Westminster Palace . Bright be a lifelong campaigner against slavery and be especially well know for his role in abolish the corn law , alongside another great parliamentarian , Richard Cobden , who — with apology to my hon . friend the Member for Rochdale ( Paul Waugh ) — I will claim as a predecessor , as large part of what be his constituency now fall under Heywood and Middleton North boundary . the history of the area I represent , then , be strongly link to many political and social reform in this country and around the world , and to ideal and value that we hold close to this day : that there be no place for violence in our politic ; that the circumstance a person be bear into must not prevent they from participate in our democracy ; and that — as those cotton worker know in the 1860 — we should be compassionate to all people regardless of race , class or any other distinction . alongside Heywood , Middleton and Spotland , I have the privilege of represent the former mill town of Castleton , with its proud history of manufacturing and engineering , and the fantastic village of Bamford and Norden . my constituency be also home to renowned architect Edgar Wood , who be widely recognise as the most advanced English architect of his time . more recently , Heywood be the birthplace of Ian Simpson — one half of SimpsonHaugh & Partners — whose building , such as Beetham Tower and one Blackfriars , compel people to look up to the skyline in both Manchester and London . to this day , it be the people of Heywood and Middleton North who continue to make the place great , and I would like to use this speech to pay tribute to some of they . they include retail worker such as Robert and Brenda Bell from Heywood , who be also proud trade unionist , for whom the employment right Bill , set out in the King ' s Speech , will create extra right to work flexibly and make parental leave , sick pay and protection from unfair dismissal day - one right . this government will also ban zero - hour contract and fire and rehire . then there be the many volunteer , include the Pullen family , who run the 1st Heywood Scouts Group ; Howard Bowden and Simon Bennett , who do excellent work through the Friends of Jubilee Park group and St Edmund ' s church ; and Pete Knowles and his group of volunteer at Stoney Hill community wildlife area , who protect and promote our beautiful meadow and woodland and make sure that child in a relatively urban area can access nature too . People like these make my constituency great , and I will do everything that I can to support they . I would like to pay tribute to my predecessor . Chris Clarkson have represent the people of Heywood and Middleton for the past four and a half year . I know that many member of this House value his good humour and enjoy work alongside he , include on the Science , Innovation and Technology Committee . Liz McInnes be the MP for Heywood and Middleton between 2014 and 2019 , and serve in two shadow ministerial role . Liz work incredibly hard in both of those position and be a fierce advocate for her constituent on many issue , include the NHS , in which she have previously work . for the past seven year , I have enjoy a career in transport planning . I be incredibly pleased by the measure set out in the King ' s Speech to accelerate infrastructure delivery and to improve our transport network . unfortunately , many people in my constituency do not have access to the opportunity and job they need , as Heywood and Middleton — despite their location in the great , modern city region of Greater Manchester — be two of the large town in the north - west of England not to be serve by a rail station or Metrolink tram stop . as one former shadow Chancellor , Ed Balls , argue in a recent paper , there have be too little transport investment in low - productivity area such as mine . we need to improve transport connectivity throughout city region like Greater Manchester because good transport infrastructure allow for more frequent interaction between people and create large pool of worker for business . early this month , we receive promise news from the Greater Manchester combine authority of a re - commitment to the linking of Middleton into Greater Manchester ' s Metrolink network and of progress on plan for Heywood ' s tram - train connection . in future , that will form part of the city region ' s integrate transport network , which Greater Manchester must carry on deliver at pace , to boost productivity , pay , job and living standard in Heywood and Middleton North . finally , when it come to devolution for our city region the job be well under way , but we must be mindful of the fact that it be not yet finish . I look forward to support our new Government , because I know that , through the english devolution Bill and other measure , they will put power back into the hand of work people and money back into their pocket . they will strive to ensure that powerful force be not able to disenfranchise those people again . throughout history , my constituent have have too much experience of that . I thank right hon . and hon . member for their attention , and I thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker , for allow I to make my first contribution . I welcome the hon . member for Heywood and Middleton North ( Mrs Blundell ) , who give a wonderful speech . it be interesting to hear about her constituency ; I confess that I do not know much about it before , but I certainly know a lot about it now . it be generous of the hon . Lady to pay rightful compliment to her predecessor , Chris Clarkson , who be much miss on this side of the House . a couple of week ago , the Labour party win a mandate for the manifesto that it put before the british electorate . we respect that ; it be part of the british parliamentary system and we respect the peaceful transfer of power . however , I say gently to the Labour Government that it be concern that the King ' s Speech and subsequent comment from Ministers have reject the notion that local community should be at the heart of development in their area . one particular issue affect my constituency of South Leicestershire : the propose Hinckley national rail freight interchange . on 8 July , the new Chancellor state that she would ask the Secretary of State for Transport , who will make the decision on the interchange , and the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero to " prioritise decision on infrastructure project that have be sit unresolved for far too long . " she do not , of course , explain what she mean by " sit unresolved for far too long " , but let I help the new Chancellor and Government . " sit unresolved for far too long " be perhaps an unfortunate euphemism ; what should actually be say be that in our system of law we respect and listen to local community . we listen to stakeholder group and neighbourhood group . of course , in most instance local authority — elect councillor — be , in most planning instance , the one whose remit it be to make these decision . on the issue of the Hinckley national rail freight interchange , I should say that South Leicestershire already have its fair share of development . it have one of the large housing development in Leicestershire , with New Lubbesthorpe ; and Magna Park , one of the large logistic park in Europe , be to be double in size . it have Bruntingthorpe aerodrome , which play host to many industrial activity , and it have the prospect of a new village — Whetstone Gorse or Whetstone Pastures . it be not nimbyism in South Leicestershire that have lead to the objection to the Hinckley national rail freight interchange ; it be the fact that there be five other rail freight interchange within a radius of 30 mile of South Leicestershire . I be glad the new Deputy Prime Minster have take a seat to listen to my speech about this matter , but it be important that the Labour Government listen not just to I and my constituent , but to Leicestershire county council , to Warwickshire county council and even to Labour - lead Rugby council , all of which have raise issue with the planning process for this unwelcome proposal . can my hon . friend confirm that that decision be now with a Labour Minister to make at a national level , override those local concern ? my hon . friend be quite right : the decision now rest with the new Labour Government to make . I be afraid that labour councillor and other labour activist who might have oppose the Hinckley national rail freight interchange should look now to their party colleague in government , who will be make this decision within a matter of a few week . I urge the Government to listen to the people of South Leicestershire and the stakeholder I have mention . I urge they to listen to the people of Elmesthorpe , Sapcote , Sharnford , Aston Flamville and Stoney Stanton , and to the constituent of my hon . friend the Member for Hinckley and Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) , who himself have make some valuable comment against the propose rail freight interchange . it be a deeply unwelcome proposal . I want to offer a solution to the new Labour Government . before they recommend this unwelcome development for approval , I suggest the relevant Minister meet I and the stakeholder , include labour - run Rugby council , to discuss the proposal . they could perhaps look at draft a national planning framework for the proper location of rail freight interchange , rather than just ride roughshod over the view of the people of South Leicestershire , as a constituent of mine email I two hour ago to say he fear , and as I fear , the Labour Government will do . it be a great honour to be in the Chamber to hear so many wonderful maiden speech , especially those of my north - east colleague . they have make I very proud today , and I think they be go to be fantastic representative of all their constituent . this be my fifth election to Westminster , but my constituency have change , with only four ward from my former North Tyneside constituency and six ward add from the former Newcastle upon Tyne East constituency . I thank the people of my former constituency for give I the honour of serve they for the past 14 year , and I thank the people of the new constituency for place their trust in I at the general election . I will work hard to honour that trust . voter in the former Newcastle upon Tyne East constituency be fortunate to be represent for 41 year by the right hon . Nick Brown , who command great respect in this House . constituent hold he in high regard for all his work and achievement , both in the constituency and as a Minister in the last Labour Government . he have earn his well - deserve retirement , but personally I be grateful to Nick for all his help and friendship . across my new constituency , people face the same challenge — the cost of living crisis , a shortage of good social housing , hike in mortgage and diminish public service — and they have all take a toll on people ' s everyday life . my constituency be cry out for this Labour Government ' s share mission of renewal . I share the view of our new North East Mayor , Kim McGuinness , in fully support the english devolution Bill . Kim believe that her office will be the delivery arm of the Labour mission in the north - east , and she be keen to start that work at pace . although I know it will not be easy , I have great hope that the announcement make in the King ' s Speech will start to turn the tide and make life well for everyone in this country . I be a North Tyneside ward councillor for 15 year before I enter the House , so I have a self - confess bias for North Tyneside council . the council ' s planning committee have not vote against offer or recommendation on any medium or large house building site for over a decade . it have an up - to - date local plan and ambitious housing target of its own , yet it still have site stick in the planning system . although National Highways agree in the local plan that strategic site should proceed and be accommodate in road infrastructure , when it come to planning application be submit , National Highways place a hold objection on the site , lead to 5 , 000 new home be stick in the system . alongside deal with other planning reform issue , I ask Ministers to look at the impact of statutory consultee on delay in the planning system , to help authority such as North Tyneside . the Health Equals campaign coalition , which be make up of 27 organisation , have launch its visually though - provoke campaign , " make Health Equal " , to highlight the fact that level of poverty and deprivation lead to people in part of my constituency and other such area live 16 year less than people in more affluent part of the country . the coalition acknowledge that the King ' s Speech will start to repair some of the building block of health , such as decent and secure housing , good work opportunity and clean transport . it look to the Government to assess the impact of the King ' s Speech on health inequality , and , in the spirit of unity , to work with such group to deliver the mission in my constituency and across the country . I also make a plea on behalf of the offshore energy industry . although the great british Energy Bill be welcome , we must not lose sight of the fact that oil and gas play a massive part in our economy , and will continue to do so . on the tobacco and vape Bill , I hope that the Government will , unlike the previous Government , take into account the view of the industry . I look forward to support the King ' s Speech in the voting Lobby , along with my 411 colleague and , hopefully , member of the Opposition . in so do , we will vote for an agenda fix on make the life of everyone in this country far well . I call Lewis Cocking to make his maiden speech . I congratulate all member who have make their maiden speech today . I be a geographer by background , so it be an absolute privilege to sit here and learn about all the different part of our lovely United Kingdom . it be truly the great honour of my life to stand here as the Member of Parliament for Broxbourne . I be under no illusion about the responsibility of represent the place where I be raise , where my family live and that I call home . I be hugely grateful to the resident of Broxbourne , who put their faith in I and elect one of their own . they will be keep I on my toe — not least my nan , who will not hesitate to badger I if she think I need to get thing sort . we be straight - talker in Broxbourne , and chief among we be my predecessor , Sir Charles Walker . he certainly be not afraid to speak his mind in this Chamber . More than a decade ago , I be lucky enough to do some work experience in Sir Charles ' s office here in Parliament . I simply would not be here today without the opportunity and wisdom that he offer over the year . Sir Charles have a number of triumph in Broxbourne , and I be grateful to join he and our community in our effort to save Cheshunt urgent care centre in 2011 and to stop the energy - from - waste facility in Hoddesdon in 2017 . I join Sir Charles on many occasion out on the doorstep . the December 2019 general election campaign in particular stick in the mind . despite the darkness and the cold , the ever - enthusiastic Sir Charles plough on . on one occasion , it be just the two of we , and all of a sudden , Charles slip and fall . I gasp and say , " Charles , please don ' t injure yourself when you ' re just with I , or they ' ll be say I do it to get the seat . " Sir Charles serve Broxbourne for 19 year , and although I know he well , it be only in the short time since my election that I have come to understand just how much of an impact he have on this House . as Chair of the Procedure Committee and , later , the Administration Committee , Sir Charles champion the institution of Parliament and the individual who make it . that have be make clear to I from the reaction of House staff when they discover that I represent Broxbourne . I will do my utmost to follow he in take my responsibility of scrutiny and representation seriously . as I have say , Broxbourne be my home and the place I love . the constituency be characterise by its closeness to both London and the countryside , with the Lee Valley regional park on our doorstep . in 2012 , Broxbourne become an olympic borough : we host the canoe event at our world - class Lee Valley white water raft centre , and we have a gold post box in Cheshunt thank to our very own Laura Kenny ' s success in the cycling . there be a number of Team GB athlete with connection to Broxbourne head to the summer Olympics , and I wish they all the good . the area have many small independent business , particularly around our town of Waltham Cross , Cheshunt and Hoddesdon . they be the backbone of Broxbourne ' s local economy , and I will do all I can to support entrepreneurship at every level . I be also proud of the international investment come to the constituency over the next few year . I be pleased to say that Hollywood be come to Broxbourne : a £ 700 million project be well under way to build a film studio complex , which will have the capacity to produce four blockbuster at the same time . at this election , the constituency of Broxbourne take on the village of Stanstead Abbotts , St Margarets , Hertford Heath , Great Amwell and Brickendon . these village be all know for their tight - knit community and natural beauty , which bring I on to the topic of this debate . while prepare for this speech , I notice that both of the former mps for Broxbourne refer to the unspoiled green belt that we be lucky to have in our area . Broxbourne have a local plan and have build hundred of new home — too many in a short space of time , some of my constituent would argue , and too many in total . I tend to agree . as many member who be councillor will have see if they have sit on a planning committee , developer use outline planning permission to promise the world . I have see house in outline that look absolutely amazing : the development have school , new road , a local centre and healthcare facility . however , once outline planning permission have be grant , the developer come forward for full planning permission , and nine time out of 10 the application look incredibly different , with bad design and no infrastructure . and developer wonder why resident get up in arm ! we need to well link the NHS to new development . on several occasion , get local NHS provider to tell we what they need , or even get they around the table so that we can plan new service for my constituent , have be a real struggle . I have a real issue in Goffs Oak and the wide west Cheshunt area , which have see a lot of new housing but no new healthcare facility . it be obvious to everyone live there that those facility be desperately need . we must ensure that development be acceptable — not development anywhere , but appropriate development in the right place . infrastructure must come first , with new school , GP surgery and section 106 money up front , or as close to day one as possible . above all else , we must ensure that local people have a say over development in their area , so I hope the Government will listen to local people . on this and other issue , I assure my constituent that I will be their voice in this place , and I hope I can begin to repay their trust as my hard work start now . I call Peter Prinsley to make his maiden speech . I be a surgeon from East Anglia , and it be an honour beyond my imagining to have be elect to Parliament to serve the people of Bury St Edmunds and Stowmarket in the most beautiful county of Suffolk . I thank its voter for put their faith in I and in Labour , and for give we the chance to change Britain . I be the first ever Labour Member of Parliament for Bury St Edmunds and Stowmarket , which have be a conservative seat for nigh on 150 year . I must thank my predecessor , Jo Churchill , most sincerely for her long service to her constituent . I be the first ear , nose and throat surgeon ever elect to Parliament . I be not , however , the first member of my family to be an MP . I recall my uncle , George Jeger , from when I be a small boy in the 1960 — he be the Member for Goole , in the East Riding of Yorkshire . I thank my teacher at Guisborough grammar school in Cleveland . as a descendant of jewish refugee , what a pleasure it be to hear my hon . friend the Member for Middlesbrough South and East Cleveland ( Luke Myer ) deliver his maiden speech . I go to medical school in Sheffield , and I thank the many surgeon who train I in the NHS . I thank the thousand of patient whom I have treat during my career , and who put their faith in I and be my last inspiration . indeed , one of the first people I meet as I walk into Parliament be one of my patient , Paul from Great Yarmouth , who work here in this place to keep we all safe . I thank my family and in particular my wife , Marian , the former sheriff of Norwich , who have be my great supporter and who first encourage I in politic . my constituency of Bury St Edmunds and Stowmarket be a wonderful part of the world , with a rich tradition of agriculture and food production . we be home to Greene King and , accord to the record in the House of Commons Library , one of my distinguished predecessor urge the House bar to stock the delicious beer create from Suffolk barley . I see that the present Greene King brew in the Strangers ' Bar be call Level Head — something we be all go to need in the year to come as we begin to rebuild Britain . we be also home to Silver Spoon , and the enormous Suffolk sugar beet production be key to the local economy . in Stowmarket , we have a brilliant food museum to showcase that most essential of national service , farming . I be delighted to see our new Government ' s proposal to sort out our bus . let we think of they as the crucial service they be and support they . there be village in my constituency that have two bus a day during the school term and no bus at all in the school holiday . how do anyone without a car get to the GP surgery or to the pharmacy in the nearby town ? very few surgeon be ever elect to Parliament and I will bring my experience of 42 year as an NHS doctor to this place to do something to help mend a service that my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care have describe as break . many of our hospital be indeed in poor repair and we have see very little progress on the 40 new hospital famously promise by the last government . in Bury St Edmunds , we urgently need to confirm the capital funding to progress the replacement of the West Suffolk hospital which , like my own James Paget university hospital in Great Yarmouth and our sister hospital in King ' s Lynn , be support by thousand of scaffold pole and be literally fall down . last week , it be report that bird dropping have fall through the roof on to sterile surgical instrument . my predecessor be a strong advocate for the replacement of our hospital , and I will aim to continue her work . our brilliant new Government have much to do . let we use our huge mandate wisely . let we look after the staff who look after we , end the outrage of food bank for the nurse in many of our hospital , and sort out the pay and condition of all who work in our most precious of public service . let we make the big employer in the land the very good employer in the land . there be thing to do to sort out social care and to end the financial lottery at the end of life , which many family fear . the answer be political , and we can do this . our hospital be full of patient with a non - medical condition call bed block , because they can not be discharge safely in many case . I can not begin to tell the House how many of my operating list have be cancel because of that problem . whole surgical team be wait around for hour and operating theatre be lie empty . if we solve the problem of social care , we will not need to build ever big hospital . but I be optimistic for our NHS . Britain lead the world in scientific advance . right in my own region of East Anglia we have world - beat biomedical science and lead university . recently , we celebrate 75 year of the NHS . my father — who , if he be alive and here today , would be astonish — be an RAF medic who join the RAF in 1948 . my son be an A & E doctor right here in London . my sister be a nurse . my family have serve the NHS continuously since it begin . when the great Nye Bevan invent the NHS , a painful hip be treat with a walk stick , and a cataract with a thick pair of glass . now the miracle of joint replacement and cataract surgery be no long regard as the surgical miracle they be , but as an entitlement . Nye would have be amazed . I be sure we will see in our own time scientific and medical advance beyond our imagination . already we be at last see effective treatment for dementia and neurological disorder , and genetic cure for haemophilia and other inherit problem . we will also have cancer vaccine and other marvel that we can not yet imagine . I urge all my honourable colleague in this brand - new Parliament to do whatever we can to support research and innovation with all our heart and all our soul , for as the great poet Seamus Heaney write , " once in a lifetime the long - for tidal wave of justice can rise up , and hope and history rhyme . " I commend this King ' s Speech to the House . I begin by congratulate the Secretary of State and the ministerial team on their appointment and wish they well . I also pay tribute to the hon . member for Chesterfield ( Mr Perkins ) and for Newport West and Islwyn ( Ruth Jones ) , who do a lot of the hard yard in opposition and miss out on ministerial role this time . I pay tribute to the excellent maiden speech we have hear on both side of the House today . we start with the hon . member for Bishop Auckland ( Sam Rushworth ) , who I be delighted to hear have significant rural area in his constituency and have an interest in this sector . we hear from the hon . member for Edinburgh South West ( Dr Arthur ) , who give the House an informed tour of his constituency . we have a fantastic speech from my hon . friend the Member for Gordon and Buchan ( Harriet Cross ) , who bring real practical and professional experience to rural affair and rightly focus on the need to tailor policy to the need of rural community . we hear from the new hon . member for Middlesbrough South and East Cleveland ( Luke Myer ) , who be very generous in his tribute to his much - respect predecessor . we have a brilliant speech from my hon . friend the Member for Bognor Regis and Littlehampton ( Alison Griffiths ) , who highlight the importance of the rural economy and water quality — what an asset she will be in the House . we also hear from the hon . member for Hexham ( Joe Morris ) , who talk about farming as the beat heart of his constituency , while the hon . member for Heywood and Middleton North ( Mrs Blundell ) speak about the radicalism of a former figure from Middleton — I hope that will inform her relationship with the Government Whips Office move forward . we have two outstanding closing speech . my hon . friend the Member for Broxbourne ( Lewis Cocking ) speak about the importance of infrastructure in the rural economy , and focus particularly on planning . we also witness the huge experience , which be respect across the House , that the hon . member for Bury St Edmunds and Stowmarket ( Peter Prinsley ) bring as a surgeon . I know he will be an important voice in health debate , among other . I be delighted that all those new member choose to make their maiden speech on the issue of rural affair in the King ' s Speech . labour campaign on a slogan of change , but they be offer only uncertainty to farming and fishing community . it be no surprise that , just last night , the president of the National Farmers Union say that farmer be face a " cliff edge " and be " be keep up at night " by the uncertainty . that uncertainty be not because the Labour Government have not have time to prepare their policy for farming and fishing ; it be because the issue be not a priority for a Labour Government . that be why the labour manifesto have just 87 word on farming and nothing at all on fishing . it be why this King ' s Speech have nothing for the farming and fishing community . it be why the Government have not even give any date for when this uncertainty will end . we should be clear in this House that that be an active choice . it be a point that the Government have choose to prioritise , in contrast to the prioritisation we be willing to make with the additional funding that we commit . be it not all the more ironic that just a few year ago , the now Prime Minister go to the NFU and admit that farming and rural affair have for too long be an afterthought for the Labour party and promise to change that ? that be an early example of promise change that be not then deliver . we can see that uncertainty in the farming budget . the Government have make no commitment to what the budget will be , or whether they be continue it or increase it . we be willing to make decision to prioritise £ 1 billion of additional funding over this Parliament . there be nothing from Labour on that , leave farmer uncertain . can the Secretary of State confirm what his budget will be ? do he even know ? have the Chancellor tell he ? can he even tell the House when he might know ? we do not even know when the spending review will be . he be probably as much in the dark as the rest of we . what about the uncertainty on food security ? we make commitment with the food security index , the annual farm to fork summit , the food security duty , the big ever grant payment , and the additional funding to deal with the wet weather that farmer have recently face . what be the commitment from the Labour Government on food security ? there be nothing in the King ' s Speech about legislate for that . can the Secretary of State confirm whether they intend to legislate and it be just an omission that they do not get around to , or be it something that he be now rule out ? what about the uncertainty about just how much farmland will be lose as a result of this government ? we know what their 2030 environmental target be — to triple solar , to increase onshore wind and to increase the pylon connect to offshore wind — so can the Secretary of State confirm to the House that he will publish before the summer recess an impact assessment on how much farmland will be lose as a result of deliver his 2030 environmental target ? do he even know ? one cornerstone of the conservative manifesto be for an underground - first approach to new electricity pylon . that be an important matter for my constituent in Basildon and Billericay . will my right hon . Friend also highlight to the Government exactly how important that be and try to seek an answer on what their proposal be in this space ? my right hon . friend get to the nub of the issue , because if a government be promise change , they need to be able to say what the timeline be . they need to say what the budget be and what legislation they will pass to deliver that . on all those thing , there be silence in this King ' s Speech . the labour manifesto have lot of high - sound thing that be hard to disagree with . labour want more food security , and say that food security be national security , and we on the Opposition Benches agree . labour say it want to raise animal welfare , and we have do a huge amount to do so . that be fine . however , if the Government say they want to end the badger cull , when will they do that ? there be nothing in the King ' s Speech on that , so what be the timeline ? dairy farmer would like to know . will the Secretary of State publish the analysis from the chief veterinary officer on what the impact of end the cull would be on the trajectory ? we know that the current approach have see TB case come down in England from 34 , 500 in 2018 to below 20 , 000 . certainly the advice that I have be that vaccination would not be ready for some time . will he publish the trajectory and tell we when the cull will end ? you need to respect the science . of course we respect the science . the hon . Gentleman chunter from a sedentary position , but I presume he will get the same science brief — in a way , he make my point — that I get from the chief vet , which be that the vaccination be not ready and the cull be be effective . in fact , we only need to look at Labour ' s policy in Wales , where the opposite be happen , to see that . I hope that , as he represent Cambridge , he will follow the science , because the Government make a commitment that do not . perhaps that be the sort of change they mean — a change from what they commit to in the manifesto . it do not take long . speak of thing at a high level that no one can disagree with , the Government talk about make more use of public sector procurement . again , the Conservatives not only agree with that , but we have help the Government with it . the former Member for Colchester do a fantastic review , the Quince review , look at how that will be do , but the Government be silent on the funding for that . will it be fund out of the budget of the Department for Health and Social Care , the Department for Education , the Ministry of Defence , local government — or will it come out of the Secretary of State ' s budget ? it be difficult for he to say , because he do not even know what his budget will be . the reality be that we have empty slogan from a party that do not care about the rural economy . the Government be not give clarity to farming and fishing ; they barely mention farming in their manifesto , and they do not even mention fishing . this King ' s Speech do nothing for the farming and fishing community . the decision that we have see so far take vast amount of farmland out of food production in order to prioritise the eco - zealotry that we have hear so often in this House . I hope the Secretary of State will give the clarity that be sadly lack in the King ' s Speech on what the Government will do — and when — on the budget , on food procurement , and on dairy farmer and the badger cull , and will end the uncertainty that the president of the NFU and so many other in the farming and fishing community currently face . it be a huge honour , on my first opportunity to speak from the Dispatch Box as the Secretary of State , to close today ' s debate on his Majesty ' s Gracious Speech . I welcome my predecessor , now the shadow Secretary of State , to his place and thank he for the way he have work constructively with I . I look forward to that continue , although I prefer it this way around . it have be an honour to be present for maiden speech from across the House . unfortunately , I do not have the time to go through their excellent comment in much detail , but I would like to mention my hon . friend the Members for Bishop Auckland ( Sam Rushworth ) , for Edinburgh South West ( Dr Arthur ) , for Cramlington and Killingworth ( Emma Foody ) , for Middlesbrough South and East Cleveland ( Luke Myer ) , for Hexham ( Joe Morris ) , for Heywood and Middleton North ( Mrs Blundell ) and for Bury St Edmunds and Stowmarket ( Peter Prinsley ) . many of they represent rural constituency , and they all show what great asset they will be to this House and to the community they represent . I can not respond to everyone who have speak — I be sorry about that — but I will do my good to cover what I can in the limited time available . I will start with the subject of planning . this Government be elect on a mandate to get Britain build again . as the Deputy Prime Minister say , reform the planning system be the key to unlock our country ' s economic growth . the exist planning system be too restrictive , slow and uncertain , which undermine investor confidence and mean that the home that we desperately need do not get build . we will overhaul the planning system to tackle the chronic shortage of home and power up the economy . alongside that , we be elect on a platform to deliver for nature , and will take urgent action to meet the Environment Act target that the previous Government miss . we will protect , create and improve space that increase climate resilience and promote nature ' s recovery on land and at sea , recognise that ensure a positive outcome for nature be fundamental to unlock the housing and infrastructure that this country so urgently need . we must take tough action to tackle the housing emergency and build the 1 . 5 million home that we need over this Parliament , but we remain committed to preserve the green belt . our brownfield - first approach mean that that authority should prioritise brownfield site . however , brownfield development alone will not be enough , so we will also transform low - quality grey belt land , such as wasteland or old car park , into housing , include affordable home for those most in need . rise — I be sorry , there be not enough time for I to give way . [ interruption . ] member should have speak for less time . rural community have be severely undermine by the previous Conservative Government . for a party that once claim to be the party of the countryside , their track record be one of abject and absolute neglect . voter in the countryside reject their failure and embrace labour ' s positive vision . that be evident from the huge increase in Labour mps represent rural constituency , and the collapse in rural support for the Conservatives . thank to the Conservative party , transport link in many rural area be now close to non - existent ; there be more pothole in England ' s road than crater on the moon ; school can not recruit enough teacher ; GP surgery be full ; family can not find an NHS dentist ; thousand of rural business have collapse ; and rural crime go unpunished . this be an abandonment of the countryside on a historic scale . if we solve the problem of social care , we will not need to build ever big hospital . but I be optimistic for our NHS . Britain lead the world in scientific advance . right in my own region of East Anglia we have world - beat biomedical science and lead university . recently , we celebrate 75 year of the NHS . my father — who , if he be alive and here today , would be astonish — be an RAF medic who join the RAF in 1948 . my son be an A & E doctor right here in London . my sister be a nurse . my family have serve the NHS continuously since it begin . when the great Nye Bevan invent the NHS , a painful hip be treat with a walk stick , and a cataract with a thick pair of glass . now the miracle of joint replacement and cataract surgery be no long regard as the surgical miracle they be , but as an entitlement . Nye would have be amazed . I be sure we will see in our own time scientific and medical advance beyond our imagination . already we be at last see effective treatment for dementia and neurological disorder , and genetic cure for haemophilia and other inherit problem . we will also have cancer vaccine and other marvel that we can not yet imagine . I urge all my honourable colleague in this brand - new Parliament to do whatever we can to support research and innovation with all our heart and all our soul , for as the great poet Seamus Heaney write , " once in a lifetime the long - for tidal wave of justice can rise up , and hope and history rhyme . " I commend this King ' s Speech to the House . I begin by congratulate the Secretary of State and the ministerial team on their appointment and wish they well . I also pay tribute to the hon . member for Chesterfield ( Mr Perkins ) and for Newport West and Islwyn ( Ruth Jones ) , who do a lot of the hard yard in opposition and miss out on ministerial role this time . I pay tribute to the excellent maiden speech we have hear on both side of the House today . we start with the hon . member for Bishop Auckland ( Sam Rushworth ) , who I be delighted to hear have significant rural area in his constituency and have an interest in this sector . we hear from the hon . member for Edinburgh South West ( Dr Arthur ) , who give the House an informed tour of his constituency . we have a fantastic speech from my hon . friend the Member for Gordon and Buchan ( Harriet Cross ) , who bring real practical and professional experience to rural affair and rightly focus on the need to tailor policy to the need of rural community . we hear from the new hon . member for Middlesbrough South and East Cleveland ( Luke Myer ) , who be very generous in his tribute to his much - respect predecessor . we have a brilliant speech from my hon . friend the Member for Bognor Regis and Littlehampton ( Alison Griffiths ) , who highlight the importance of the rural economy and water quality — what an asset she will be in the House . we also hear from the hon . member for Hexham ( Joe Morris ) , who talk about farming as the beat heart of his constituency , while the hon . member for Heywood and Middleton North ( Mrs Blundell ) speak about the radicalism of a former figure from Middleton — I hope that will inform her relationship with the Government Whips Office move forward . we have two outstanding closing speech . my hon . friend the Member for Broxbourne ( Lewis Cocking ) speak about the importance of infrastructure in the rural economy , and focus particularly on planning . we also witness the huge experience , which be respect across the House , that the hon . member for Bury St Edmunds and Stowmarket ( Peter Prinsley ) bring as a surgeon . I know he will be an important voice in health debate , among other . I be delighted that all those new member choose to make their maiden speech on the issue of rural affair in the King ' s Speech . labour campaign on a slogan of change , but they be offer only uncertainty to farming and fishing community . it be no surprise that , just last night , the president of the National Farmers Union say that farmer be face a " cliff edge " and be " be keep up at night " by the uncertainty . that uncertainty be not because the Labour Government have not have time to prepare their policy for farming and fishing ; it be because the issue be not a priority for a Labour Government . that be why the labour manifesto have just 87 word on farming and nothing at all on fishing . it be why this King ' s Speech have nothing for the farming and fishing community . it be why the Government have not even give any date for when this uncertainty will end . we should be clear in this House that that be an active choice . it be a point that the Government have choose to prioritise , in contrast to the prioritisation we be willing to make with the additional funding that we commit . be it not all the more ironic that just a few year ago , the now Prime Minister go to the NFU and admit that farming and rural affair have for too long be an afterthought for the Labour party and promise to change that ? that be an early example of promise change that be not then deliver . we can see that uncertainty in the farming budget . the Government have make no commitment to what the budget will be , or whether they be continue it or increase it . we be willing to make decision to prioritise £ 1 billion of additional funding over this Parliament . there be nothing from Labour on that , leave farmer uncertain . can the Secretary of State confirm what his budget will be ? do he even know ? have the Chancellor tell he ? can he even tell the House when he might know ? we do not even know when the spending review will be . he be probably as much in the dark as the rest of we . what about the uncertainty on food security ? we make commitment with the food security index , the annual farm to fork summit , the food security duty , the big ever grant payment , and the additional funding to deal with the wet weather that farmer have recently face . what be the commitment from the Labour Government on food security ? there be nothing in the King ' s Speech about legislate for that . can the Secretary of State confirm whether they intend to legislate and it be just an omission that they do not get around to , or be it something that he be now rule out ? what about the uncertainty about just how much farmland will be lose as a result of this government ? we know what their 2030 environmental target be — to triple solar , to increase onshore wind and to increase the pylon connect to offshore wind — so can the Secretary of State confirm to the House that he will publish before the summer recess an impact assessment on how much farmland will be lose as a result of deliver his 2030 environmental target ? do he even know ? one cornerstone of the conservative manifesto be for an underground - first approach to new electricity pylon . that be an important matter for my constituent in Basildon and Billericay . will my right hon . Friend also highlight to the Government exactly how important that be and try to seek an answer on what their proposal be in this space ? my right hon . friend get to the nub of the issue , because if a government be promise change , they need to be able to say what the timeline be . they need to say what the budget be and what legislation they will pass to deliver that . on all those thing , there be silence in this King ' s Speech . the labour manifesto have lot of high - sound thing that be hard to disagree with . labour want more food security , and say that food security be national security , and we on the Opposition Benches agree . labour say it want to raise animal welfare , and we have do a huge amount to do so . that be fine . however , if the Government say they want to end the badger cull , when will they do that ? there be nothing in the King ' s Speech on that , so what be the timeline ? dairy farmer would like to know . will the Secretary of State publish the analysis from the chief veterinary officer on what the impact of end the cull would be on the trajectory ? we know that the current approach have see TB case come down in England from 34 , 500 in 2018 to below 20 , 000 . certainly the advice that I have be that vaccination would not be ready for some time . will he publish the trajectory and tell we when the cull will end ? you need to respect the science . of course we respect the science . the hon . Gentleman chunter from a sedentary position , but I presume he will get the same science brief — in a way , he make my point — that I get from the chief vet , which be that the vaccination be not ready and the cull be be effective . in fact , we only need to look at Labour ' s policy in Wales , where the opposite be happen , to see that . I hope that , as he represent Cambridge , he will follow the science , because the Government make a commitment that do not . perhaps that be the sort of change they mean — a change from what they commit to in the manifesto . it do not take long . speak of thing at a high level that no one can disagree with , the Government talk about make more use of public sector procurement . again , the Conservatives not only agree with that , but we have help the Government with it . the former Member for Colchester do a fantastic review , the Quince review , look at how that will be do , but the Government be silent on the funding for that . will it be fund out of the budget of the Department for Health and Social Care , the Department for Education , the Ministry of Defence , local government — or will it come out of the Secretary of State ' s budget ? it be difficult for he to say , because he do not even know what his budget will be . the reality be that we have empty slogan from a party that do not care about the rural economy . the Government be not give clarity to farming and fishing ; they barely mention farming in their manifesto , and they do not even mention fishing . this King ' s Speech do nothing for the farming and fishing community . the decision that we have see so far take vast amount of farmland out of food production in order to prioritise the eco - zealotry that we have hear so often in this House . I hope the Secretary of State will give the clarity that be sadly lack in the King ' s Speech on what the Government will do — and when — on the budget , on food procurement , and on dairy farmer and the badger cull , and will end the uncertainty that the president of the NFU and so many other in the farming and fishing community currently face . it be a huge honour , on my first opportunity to speak from the Dispatch Box as the Secretary of State , to close today ' s debate on his Majesty ' s Gracious Speech . I welcome my predecessor , now the shadow Secretary of State , to his place and thank he for the way he have work constructively with I . I look forward to that continue , although I prefer it this way around . it have be an honour to be present for maiden speech from across the House . unfortunately , I do not have the time to go through their excellent comment in much detail , but I would like to mention my hon . friend the Members for Bishop Auckland ( Sam Rushworth ) , for Edinburgh South West ( Dr Arthur ) , for Cramlington and Killingworth ( Emma Foody ) , for Middlesbrough South and East Cleveland ( Luke Myer ) , for Hexham ( Joe Morris ) , for Heywood and Middleton North ( Mrs Blundell ) and for Bury St Edmunds and Stowmarket ( Peter Prinsley ) . many of they represent rural constituency , and they all show what great asset they will be to this House and to the community they represent . I can not respond to everyone who have speak — I be sorry about that — but I will do my good to cover what I can in the limited time available . I will start with the subject of planning . this Government be elect on a mandate to get Britain build again . as the Deputy Prime Minister say , reform the planning system be the key to unlock our country ' s economic growth . the exist planning system be too restrictive , slow and uncertain , which undermine investor confidence and mean that the home that we desperately need do not get build . we will overhaul the planning system to tackle the chronic shortage of home and power up the economy . alongside that , we be elect on a platform to deliver for nature , and will take urgent action to meet the Environment Act target that the previous Government miss . we will protect , create and improve space that increase climate resilience and promote nature ' s recovery on land and at sea , recognise that ensure a positive outcome for nature be fundamental to unlock the housing and infrastructure that this country so urgently need . we must take tough action to tackle the housing emergency and build the 1 . 5 million home that we need over this Parliament , but we remain committed to preserve the green belt . our brownfield - first approach mean that that authority should prioritise brownfield site . however , brownfield development alone will not be enough , so we will also transform low - quality grey belt land , such as wasteland or old car park , into housing , include affordable home for those most in need . rise — I be sorry , there be not enough time for I to give way . [ interruption . ] member should have speak for less time . rural community have be severely undermine by the previous Conservative Government . for a party that once claim to be the party of the countryside , their track record be one of abject and absolute neglect . voter in the countryside reject their failure and embrace labour ' s positive vision . that be evident from the huge increase in Labour mps represent rural constituency , and the collapse in rural support for the Conservatives . thank to the Conservative party , transport link in many rural area be now close to non - existent ; there be more pothole in England ' s road than crater on the moon ; school can not recruit enough teacher ; GP surgery be full ; family can not find an NHS dentist ; thousand of rural business have collapse ; and rural crime go unpunished . this be an abandonment of the countryside on a historic scale . yet instead of apologise for their failure , the Conservatives choose to deny the reason why rural voter turn against they in their million . they be at it again today . I take it from the comment the shadow Secretary of State be make just now that they be so out of touch that they do not understand that rural community want more affordable home , more dentist , more teacher , more gps , well public transport , energy security , more digital connectivity , well - pay job , well access to the countryside all around they , and their river clean up , after the Tories leave they swill with raw , stink toxic sewage . they be out of touch , out of idea and now , thank goodness , out of office . this week , Britain start a new chapter . rural community will be central to our mission to rebuild Britain and fix the issue that make a real difference to people ' s everyday life , as we grow the economy , mend the NHS , fix our school , tackle crime and address the cost of living crisis . over a decade of national renewal , this Labour Government will serve the british public , wherever they live . the Prime Minister have be clear that this Government ' s priority be to grow our economy . we will boost rural economy with our new deal for farmer ; seek a veterinary agreement with the EU to get food export move again after the Tories lock they out ; and stop farmer ever again be undercut by dodgy Tory trade deal that sell out Britain ' s environmental and welfare standard , as they sell out Britain ' s exporter and food producer . we will set up a new british infrastructure council to steer private investment , include for broadband roll - out , into rural area neglect by the Tories , and reduce our exposure to volatile global fossil fuel price , protect farmer ' energy bill against future price shock . rise — I be very sorry , but there be only three minute leave and I need to cover the point that have be raise . [ interruption . ] they have their time . we will do that by switch on GB Energy as we make Britain a green energy superpower . we will speed up the building of flood defence to protect rural home and farm , and rebuild our NHS with 40 , 000 more appointment every week , 8 , 500 more mental health professional — [ interruption ] — and a hub in every rural community to tackle loneliness and the mental health crisis . [ interruption . ] order . the right hon . member for Louth and Horncastle ( Victoria Atkins ) have behave abominably . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker . and that be not the end of the Tories ' failure . we will take back our street from the criminal , with the first ever cross - Government rural crime strategy and more police patrol in rural town and village . we will break down barrier to opportunity in rural community , so our child can realise their ambition , wherever they grow up . they be the party of broken dream ; this be the party of aspiration . nature underpin all the Government ' s mission . without nature , there be no economy , no health , no food and no society . nature be at crisis point . the Tories leave Britain one of the most nature - deplete country on Earth . a third of our bird and mammal specie face extinction . record level of sewage be poison our river , lake and sea . this catastrophe can not be reverse overnight , but we have already turn the corner . this week we introduce our water special measure Bill to strengthen regulation and reverse the tide of sewage that be kill our waterway . water boss will no long reward themselves with multimillion - pound bonus — which the Tories allow — while they oversee record level of water pollution . if they refuse to clean up their toxic filth , they will face criminal charge . last week , water company sign up to my initial package of reform , include ringfence funding for vital infrastructure investment . if that money be not spend as it be intend to be , company will refund their customer . it will no long be divert for bonus or dividend , as the Tories allow it to be . the Tories have 14 year to take such action , but they fail absolutely . it take this government less than one week . that be what change look like with Labour . this Government be commit to the legally binding environmental target set under the Environment Act 2021 — target that the Tories miss , but that this Government will meet by work in a new partnership with the nature non - governmental organisation . I thank all member who have take part in this constructive and insightful debate for their perceptive contribution and their dedication to make progress on important matter . after 14 year of chaos , there be once again hope for our environment , hope for our countryside , and hope for our rural community . I welcome the King ' s Speech , and I commend it to this House . Change have come after 14 year of chaos and failure . the debate stand adjourn ( Standing Order no . 9 ( 3 ) ) . order , that the debate be resume on Monday 22 July . Adjournment Resolved , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Anna Turley . ) House adjourn .