Speaker ' s Statement before we come to Treasury question , I have agree to a request from the Chancellor to make some brief comment about the global financial situation , follow which the shadow Chancellor and the Liberal Democrat spokesperson will be allow to respond and ask a question . I will then call other hon . member to ask the question on the Order Paper in the usual way . other Members may well wish to refer to the Chancellor ' s comment in their supplementary or topical question , and I will take a more liberal view of the scope of supplementary question than be usually the case . I call the Chancellor of the Exchequer . thank you , Mr Speaker . as you say , I would like to make some brief remark on the current economic situation . the United States decision to impose tariff have have , and will continue to have , huge implication for the world economy . these implication have be reflect in the reaction we have see in global market in recent day , which the financial authority have of course be monitor closely . this morning , I speak to the Governor of the Bank of England , who confirm that market be function effectively and that our banking system be resilient . I know , too , that this be an anxious time for family , who be worried about the cost of living — we have your back . british business be worried about what a change world will mean for they — we have your back , too . this Government be clear - eyed that our response to global change can not be to watch and wait , but instead to act decisively , to take the right decision that be in our national interest , protect work people . all the decision that we make as a Government will be underpin by the stability of our non - negotiable fiscal rule . a trade war be in nobody ' s interest . that be why we must remain pragmatic and cool - headed , and pursue the good deal with the United States in our national interest . that remain our priority . it be part of the discussion that I have with US Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent last week . but we have be clear that nothing be off the table . that be why we will continue to back british business during these uncertain time , particularly in industry that be most affected , as we rebuild our industrial base here in Britain . we show that backing yesterday when the Prime Minister and I announce new measure to give british car maker certainty and stability , and to support they on the transition to electric vehicle . we have put forward plan to support our life science sector by cut back the time it will take to set up clinical trial in the UK . it be why we be work with our international ally to reduce barrier to trade right across the world . over recent day I have have discussion with my counterpart in Canada , Australia , Ireland , France and Spain , and with the European Commission . we will pursue those talk in earnest . tomorrow , I will hold talk with the Indian Government as part of our two nation ' economic and financial dialogue , as we seek to secure a new trade deal with India . finally , we must go far and fast in our mission to kick - start economic growth . I know that the challenge face the global economy , and their potential impact , could be profound . as a government , we must step up to that challenge to deliver security for work people through our plan for change , which be underpin by stability , reform and investment — prioritise the builder , not the blocker ; reform our public service , not defend the status quo ; invest in our long - term infrastructure , not cut it for the short term . security for work people , renewal for Britain — that be our focus , and that be what this Government will deliver . I call the shadow Chancellor . I thank the right hon . Lady for advance notice of her comment . this be a time of great concern for million of people up and down our country , for business , and , as an open - trading nation , for our economy at large . free trade have be the bedrock of prosperity for our country , and for many country around the world , for decade . it have raise billion of people out of poverty . tariff be the enemy of free trade , and we on the Conservative Benches will do whatever we can to assist the Government in get those tariff down . have say that , of course we will never cease to be an effective opposition who vigorously hold the Government to account — not least on the disastrous decision that they have already take in respect of our economy . we will be responsible when it come to these matter , particularly where market sensitivity be engage . I want to ask the right hon . Lady the follow question . first , could she provide further detail of the US negotiation and specifically whether further meeting with Scott Bessent and other have be arrange that involve she ? secondly , which area beyond tariff be be discuss in those negotiation ? thirdly , which sector beyond car and life science be be consider for potential Government support ? finally , could she update the House on what option there be for protect sector of the economy that might be affect by the dumping of good as a consequence of trade diversion ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for that response and for his offer to work constructively . I know from my time as shadow Chancellor that those moment when we can work constructively together in the national interest , whether in response to covid or in support Ukraine against the aggression of Russia , be when this House be at its good . the shadow Chancellor ask for further detail in a number of area . discussion be ongoing across a range of Government Departments , include the Treasury , with the United States , and I will be meet US Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent shortly . beyond tariff , we be discuss a range of different area , but the focus be on reduce tariff and non - tariff barrier to trade , with a particular focus on those sector that be subject to the high tariff . although the 10 % tariff be low than those for many other country around the world , and we welcome that , the additional tariff on car , on steel and potentially on life science pose a real challenge to our country , because those be some of our big export market . that be why we make the announcement yesterday , and in those sector — automotive , life science and steel — we will continue to take the action that be necessary , work in partnership with business and trade union , to make sure we be address those issue . we be also use institution such as the British Business Bank , the National Wealth Fund and UK Export Finance to help business through these time . the shadow Chancellor also mention concern around dumping . we be work with colleague around the world to understand those implication , but our first priority be not to create more trade barrier but to reduce the one that exist today . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . People up and down the country will be incredibly concerned about what Trump ' s trade war mean for their living standard and their community . at the same time , people want to show that Britain be not go to take Donald Trump ' s trade tariff lie down . we welcome the Chancellor ' s announcement that the Government will be work far and fast with our ally abroad . can she confirm that any new trade deal will be bring before this House for a vote before they be ratify ? at the same time as work with our ally abroad to create new export market , will the Chancellor and the Government commit to a " buy british " campaign as part of a broad national effort to encourage people to buy British here at home ? I thank the hon . Lady for those question . this be a time for pragmatism and cool head , not to rush a response . we be work closely with business . my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Business and Trade announce in the House last week a call for evidence on the response that business be look for . ratchet up barrier to trade and ratchet up tariff will not be in our country ' s interest , whether in term of inflation or , indeed , for supply chain . we need to have cool head and think about the national interest , not give knee - jerk reaction . we be very much focused on do deal with other country around the world . there be the EU - UK summit on 18 May . we be host the economic and financial dialogue with Minister Sitharaman , who be come to London today for those conversation , and those discussion be ongoing with a number of country . of course , any treaty would be bring forward for ratification by this House . in term of buy british , I think everyone will make their own decision . what we do not want to see be a trade war , with Britain become inward - look , because if every country in the world decide that they want only to buy thing produce in their country , that would not be a good way forward . our country have benefit hugely from access to global market , and we will continue to want to be able to do that , because that be in our national interest , for work people and business in this country . oral Answers to Questions Treasury the Chancellor of the Exchequer be ask — Tax Evasion what step she be take to help tackle tax evasion . close the tax gap and ensure that everyone be pay the tax they owe be one of the Government ' s top priority . the autumn Budget mark a step change to close the tax gap with the most ambitious package ever . the Government build on that in the spring statement , take the total additional gross tax revenue raise per year to £ 7 . 5 billion by 2029 - 30 . the UK tax gap grow by a shocking £ 5 billion in 2023 , in the die day of the Conservatives , and former Chancellor Nadhim Zahawi be sack for fail to declare an investigation by his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs into his tax affair . I welcome the Treasury ' s crackdown on tax avoidance . do my hon . friend agree that Labour ' s prudence with a purpose will be show by invest those taxis in the child poverty strategy this summer ? I thank my hon . friend for his remark . he be right to say that the £ 7 . 5 billion of additional revenue from close the tax gap be a huge boost to the public finance , which enable we responsibly to fund public service and deliver key priority . those priority include free breakfast club at all primary school in England . the first 750 of they be begin this month via our early adopter scheme , which be worth £ 450 to parent and carer . to go far the Government will bring forward their comprehensive child poverty strategy as soon as possible . what step be the Government take to address the concern of overseas company that be evade vat and online sale by fraudulently register UK address ? at the spring statement the hon . Gentleman will have see the Government set out progress on measure in the autumn Budget to tackle a range of source of tax avoidance and the tax gap . that include prosecute more fraudster , introduce a new HMRC reward scheme for informant , tackle phoenixism and tackle the offshore non - compliance tax gap . economic Growth what step she be take through the spending review to help increase level of economic growth . growth be the no . 1 priority of this Government . that be why in the autumn Budget and the spring statement we unlock an additional £ 113 billion for capital spending , compare with the plan that we inherit from the previous Government . yesterday we announce significant support for the automotive sector and life science , and ahead of the spending review in June we have announce the roll - out of an additional 60 , 000 place in construction skill so that we can build the home and infrastructure that our country desperately need . to drive progress on our growth mission and get the most out of taxpayer ' money , it be vital that department work collaboratively and not at odd with each other . will the Chancellor outline how she be promote cross - departmental working and planning as part of the spending review ? the Chief Secretary to the Treasury be work closely in a constructive way to bring together cluster of colleague to discuss some of the press issue that span Departments and that no one Department can address on its own , whether that be reform of special educational need and disability provision for early year , or tackle issue around homelessness and the cost of temporary accommodation . we be work cross - Government to address some of those cross - cut issue . the Chancellor be right to focus on increase economic growth , so will she please explain why my office be still wait for a response on behalf of a small business to a letter that I send on 12 December , ask she to look into the impact of her national insurance rise on small business ? we ask for an update on 11 February , I raise a point of order on 10 March , and I still have not have a response . will she please get a response to I as soon as possible ? I will follow up on that issue . the small business — those that employ the equivalent of four people on the national living wage — will be pay no national insurance at all from this April . up to 1 million of the small business will be pay less or the same national insurance as they be pay previously . I call the Chair of the Treasury Committee . since the spring statement the world have be rock by the announcement by President Trump on tariff last week . it be an event as significant as the financial crisis of 2008 , or perhaps as covid , and in those instance the state unleash everything it could to try to resolve those issue . be the Chancellor consider change any of her rule to ensure that everything that the state can throw at this problem be be do ? it be incredibly important to retain cool head at this moment . the tariff have be impose , and we be work closely with our friend and counterpart in the United States to reduce the impact from those , not just in the UK but around the world as well . as I say in my opening remark , at the same time we be look to secure well trading relationship with some of our big trading partner around the world . of course , as we do yesterday , we be look at some of the sectoral response , include on life science , automotive and steel , but the fiscal rule be very important for give our country the stability it need . we see what happen when the previous Government lose control of the public finance : it result in interest rate go through the roof , mean high cost for business and for work family . we will not make those mistake . that be why the fiscal rule be non - negotiable and stability for this Government be sacrosanct . be now not the right time to start try to make our own luck ? in that light , would it not also be the right time for the Chancellor to give the green light to the upgrade of the A66 between Penrith and Scotch Corner ? some 25 % of traffic on that a road be freight , which be twice the average for a road across the country , and it be outrageous that so much of the road be single carriageway . would it not be great for the economy , as well as save live , if the Chancellor give the upgrade the green light today ? impressive . we will be consider all such scheme as part of the spending review , but I agree with the hon . Gentleman that we need to go far and fast to grow our economy . that be why we be spend £ 113 billion more on capital investment in this Parliament , compare to the plan that we inherit , which mean that we can upgrade more road , rail line and energy infrastructure , and build the 1 . 5 million home our country need too . I call the shadow Minister . two week ago , the spring statement rush through change to disability benefit , or " pocket money " to the Chief Secretary to the Treasury , to help plug the £ 14 billion gap in public finance create by the first Labour Budget . now we be already in the Office for Budget Responsibility ' s scenario 2 on tariff , and the Chancellor be once again forecast to be out of room on her fiscal target . what do she plan to ask the Chief Secretary to the Treasury to do to update departmental budget in his multi - year spending review in order to avoid punish business and people once again with further taxis ? the hon . Gentleman be jump the gun somewhat . we deliver the spring statement just two week ago , in which we be able to restore the fiscal headroom after the change in global bond yield . we will set out the Budget in the autumn , move to one fiscal event a year , which be very different from the multiple Budgets we have from the previous Government . we have set the spending total for the spending review and we will be set out the departmental allocation on 11 June . second home what assessment she have make of the potential impact of her tax policy on investment in second home . while short - term let and second home can benefit the tourist economy , we recognise that they can impact the availability and affordability of main home in some community . that be why we have enable council to charge a premium of up to 100 % on the council tax bill of second home , increase the high rate of stamp duty land tax on the purchase of second home and abolish the furnished holiday let tax regime . I be grateful to the Minister for that response , but I believe we can go far , because this be not about the politic of envy but about the politic of social justice . in Cornwall , it can not be right that through the small business rate relief system , over £ 500 million of taxpayer ' money have go into the pocket of holiday homeowner in the last 10 year . many of those homeowner have flip their second home into the small business rating system to take advantage of that loophole . will the Minister meet I so that we can find a more equitable way of spend public money that go into first home rather than second home ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his remark . I agree with he about the importance of take the right action to tackle second home . I understand he have a meeting with the Minister for Housing and Planning last week , and I would be happy to follow up any item that arise from that . our plan to build more home include 4 , 500 new home in every year in Cornwall , and I hope he will support those building plan too . I wish to add my voice as an MP from Cornwall to say that some of the action the Government have take so far on second home have be really helpful . the Renters ' Rights Bill will help with those eviction when people be flip their house . I also ask that we look at the loophole between council tax and business rate , and at the registration or licensing scheme on second home , which the Government will hopefully bring in soon . I appreciate the concern that second home owner may move to the business rate system . I emphasise that there be requirement that must be meet before property can be assess for business rate . those have recently be strengthen , but we will keep they under review . new Homes : affordability what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to increase the affordability of new home . the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister have set out our ambition to build 1 . 5 million home during this Parliament as part of our plan for change . at the spring statement I announce step towards that ambition , with an additional £ 2 billion investment in social and affordable housing next year as a down payment on further investment at the spending review in June . I welcome the Chancellor ' s " build , build , build " policy , but with temporary housing in London cost £ 4 million a day , soar rent and a frozen local housing allowance , it be no wonder that London council fear go bankrupt and have to rehouse people from outside the capital , where only 5 % of home be affordable . in the comprehensive spending review , will my right hon . friend look into possibly uprate this stingy Tory legacy , so that londoner be not force out of London ? the key thing we need to do be build the home our country desperately need . that be why I put £ 600 million of investment into create 60 , 000 additional place for people to learn the construction skill we need , and into good job , pay decent wage and build the home we need . that be also why we be reform the planning system , so that we can actually get those home build . we be back the builder , not the blocker , which be what the Conservatives do . at the weekend , the Times reveal the problem in the retirement housing market , in term of both new build and resale , and many of my constituent have be experience a loss on the house and flat that they have inherit . do the Chancellor consider the housing market to be adequately provide decent , affordable home for those who be downsize as well as first - time buyer ? I would be very happy to arrange a meeting for the hon . Lady with the relevant Minister to discuss some of those specific issue around retirement property . she make a really important point . we need to make it easy for people to downsize to free up those property , include in the private sector , so that more home be available for family . economic growth : north - East what step she be take to increase economic growth in the north - east . secure economic growth across the country be the Government ' s no . 1 mission . we be work in partnership with the Mayor of the North East , provide the North East combine authority with an integrated funding settlement from ' 26 - 27 , and work with it on its local growth plan . the combined authority have identify a key growth corridor sweep across my constituency , but a historical lack of investment to upgrade the Moor Farm and Seaton Burn roundabout cause relentless disruption and hold back growth , investment and opportunity . there be a business plan in the north - east growth plan and in the road investment strategy . do the Minister agree that that be exactly the sort of scheme that this Labour Government should support to boost economic growth in every region ? the Government be commit to improve road . we agree a £ 4 . 8 billion settlement for National Highways and fund a £ 500 million uplift for local road in this financial year . funding for the RIS3 programme , which my hon . Friend mention , will be consider in phase 2 of the spending review , and I encourage she to continue to engage with the Minister for road on this issue . rise — I presume Mr Lamont think it be north - east Scotland , rather than north - east England . this Government decide to cancel the A1 upgrade , which will harm the economy not just in the north - east of England , but in the south of Scotland . what economic impact assessment do the Government make before decide to cancel that vital road link ? nice try . in term of north - east growth , I have already say that we be work very closely with the Mayor of the North East combine authority . I suggest that the hon . Gentleman ask question about road relevant to his part of the country at Transport question . I now call the Minister to answer Alistair Carmichael ' s question on the potential impact of change to agricultural property relief and business property relief on farmer , which be omit in error from early version of the Order Paper . farmer : tax relief if she will meet farming representative to discuss the potential impact of change to agricultural property relief and business property relief on farmer . as the Minister with responsibility for the UK tax system , I have have several meeting with organisation on this matter since the autumn Budget last year . on 18 February , I and the Minister for Food Security and Rural Affairs meet the National Farmers Union , the Tenant Farmers Association , the Country Land and Business Association , the Central Association of Agricultural Valuers , the Ulster Farmers Union , NFU Cymru , NFU Scotland and the Farmers Union of Wales . I thank the Chancellor ' s human shield for that answer , but the fact that the Chancellor — who be sit on the Front Bench — be not prepared to stand up and answer for herself demonstrate a distinct lack of respect for farmer , border on contempt . will she not meet the farming union , the bank , the professional organisation , and even the supermarket themselves to hear why they all think her calculation be wrong ? if the Minister want to ask she before he stand up , I be sure we will all allow he a second or two . that be not the most dignified question from the right hon . Gentleman . on the Chancellor ' s behalf , I have meet numerous organisation about this matter , include those I list a moment ago . I meet the right hon . Gentleman himself when he come to the Treasury , and of course there have be extensive debate in this place . we may not agree on the way forward , but I do not think anyone can accuse we of not have listen . foreign Investment : UK Summit what assessment she have make of the potential impact of the UK international investment summit 2024 on level of foreign investment . increase investment in the UK , both public and private , be the Government ' s absolute priority . it be the route to restart badly need productivity and wage growth . as the hon . Member will know , at the international investment summit , company commit to a record - break £ 63 billion - worth of investment , which be set to help to create around 30 , 000 job . I thank the Minister for that answer . I particularly thank he for say that investment be the Government ' s top priority , because the Government announce on 17 October that they have secure this £ 63 billion . we have hear from the Chancellor that she be go to act decisively , so I just want to check her track record on that . the Government have have six month and £ 63 billion . how much money have go out of the door for those oven - ready project across the country ? the hon . member will be excited to know that the Business Secretary will be announce in the come week that shovel be already in the ground , or will be go into the ground , for some project . I be a very good colleague to Ministers , so I be not go to pre - empt that announcement today . a recent PWC survey show that the UK be now the second most attractive investment destination among global chief executive , ahead of country such as China , Germany and India . that show that the Government ' s careful stewardship of our economy have lead to stability within the global landscape . do the Minister agree that the UK be now open for business after year of conservative chaos ? my hon . friend consistently ask good question that go to the heart of the matter . if I look back over the past 14 year , I see that british business investment have be the low in the G7 year after year . we be go to put that right . economic growth : Transport Infrastructure what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to increase economic growth through new transport infrastructure . the growth mission be the central mission of this Government . at the Budget , we deliver a £ 1 . 1 billion cash increase to the transport budget for 2025 - 26 compare with 2024 - 25 , represent a 1 . 5 % real - term increase . we will set out further spending plan for transport in June . what value do my right hon . friend expect that the recently announce and much - anticipate Portishead and Pill railway line will add to the local economy of my constituency of North Somerset ? first , I congratulate my hon . friend on his campaigning on this issue . as I represent the neighbouring constituency , I declare that the project may have some indirect benefit for my constituent . I can confirm to the House that the project support regional and national strategic objective . the West of England be the most productive city region outside of London , and it be set to continue to grow . an efficient and reliable rail link between Bristol and Portishead will support a range of large and small site for housing and employment across the region , halve journey time and open a wide range of job and leisure opportunity for the resident of North Somerset . if steel production cease or be curtail at the Scunthorpe steelwork , there will be a massive impact on the wide economy in northern Lincolnshire . can the Minister give an assurance that contingency plan , include improvement to transport infrastructure , be in place should the bad happen ? we recognise how important this issue be for the hon . member ' s constituency , the region and , indeed , the national economy . my ministerial colleague in the Department for Business and Trade be in discussion on this particular issue , but in our infrastructure strategy we be consider , as he would expect , the good value for align investment between housing , rail , energy and other type of infrastructure to deliver growth for everyone , in every region of the country . I call the shadow Minister . we know that the Energy Secretary be against airport expansion unless it be in Doncaster , and we know that many Labour mp be against airport expansion unless it be in Pakistan . to be fair , at least the Chancellor want airport expansion actually in this country , but at the same time she be jack up air passenger duty by as much as 16 % . only this Chancellor could be pro - airport , but anti - passenger . labour ' s Climate Change Committee want to see air passenger number fall by 2030 , so I ask the Minister : do he ? no . National Wealth Fund : Regional Growth what step she be take through the national wealth fund to increase regional economic growth . the national wealth fund have have constructive meeting with all our mayor , and we have give a mandate to the national wealth fund to work with mayor on tailor offer for their community . I be meet Mayor Andy Burnham later today to take forward that share objective to ensure that growth be generate everywhere and feel in all part of our country . as a fellow north - western MP , I be sure that you , Mr Speaker , share my pride that the bank of the River Mersey be the birthplace of the industrial revolution , and my constituency of Stockport continue to be a hub for innovation . we have many fantastic business in Stockport , include knd in the Heatons , which manufacture military bridging system and the Boxer armoured vehicle for the British Army . can the Minister outline how the national wealth fund will fuel economic growth in Stockport and the investment we need in our local infrastructure ? I visit Stockport with my hon . friend and the Mayor of Greater Manchester last year to see the regeneration work happen there , link new investment in housing with transport infrastructure . I thank my hon . friend for his leadership . last month , alongside the increase in defence spending to 2 . 5 % of gdp , we also set the national wealth fund ' s strategic direction , with a focus on support for the defence sector through dual - use technology , create more good job in all part of the country , include Stockport . economic policy should benefit all region of Britain , include rural county such as Lincolnshire , where we grow a disproportionate amount of the food that feed the nation . do the Chancellor recognise that , in an age when the two big economy in the world be protect their industry — include agriculture — the time have come to reinvest in manufacturing and to consume more of what we produce here in Britain ? to echo the call of the Liberal Democrats ’ spokesperson , we should buy British . that mean use Government procurement to back british job , british project and british worker . my right hon . friend the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster have set out new reform for procurement rule to enable just that . we want more british business to win contract . we want more small business in Britain to win contract — business in all part of the economy , include in food and farming . in farming , we give a record settlement of £ 5 billion in the Budget last year to support this important part of our national economy . there be currently no tram network from central Sheffield to Oughtibridge , Wharncliffe Side , Deepcar or stocksbridge , and no operational train service to those area . my constituent want the Sheffield tram network to be extend to Stocksbridge and to connect those rural community with job , education and hospital , as well as support the advanced manufacturing district and the steel plant in Stocksbridge . will the Minister meet I and the Mayor of South Yorkshire before the spending review to discuss the next step to establish the stocksbridge extension to the Sheffield tram - train service ? the Chief Secretary be work closely with mayor , include Oliver Coppard , to understand their priority for the place that they represent for the purpose of the spending review in June , and will continue that work . at the same time , as the hon . member for Grantham and Bourne ( Gareth Davies ) point out , we be back the airport at Doncaster , bring more good job to South Yorkshire . what discussion have the Chancellor have with the Northern Ireland Executive to ensure that the national wealth fund be use to promote economic growth in Northern Ireland ? do she not agree that the big impediment to growth be the fact that she be tax business to death ? the Office for Budget Responsibility have revise growth upwards from next year , and expect the economy to be big at the end of the forecast period than it think at the time of the Budget last year . we be use the national wealth fund , the British Business Bank and UK Export Finance to support business throughout the UK , and we be recently able to announce significant investment at Thales in Belfast to create job in the defence industry there for the export of good to Ukraine . pensioner : cost of live what fiscal step she be take to support pensioner with the cost of living . the Government ' s top priority for pensioner be to raise the state pension and to rescue the NHS . this week more than 12 million pensioner see their state pension rise by 4 . 1 % , well ahead of inflation . that be worth an extra £ 470 a year for someone on the full new state pension , and £ 360 a year for those on the full basic state pension . I have 250 piece of outstanding casework relate to the winter fuel payment . an elderly constituent email I during the winter , enclose a picture show that her thermometer be at 15 ° and say that she have to remain in bed for as long as possible each day to stay warm . give that energy bill be now increase , do the Minister agree that the decision to cut the winter fuel payment have already have serious consequence for the welfare of pensioner throughout the country ? what the Government be do be raise the state pension , extend the warm home discount , and ensure that an extra 50 , 000 people have have access to pension credit over the last six month . when member talk about mistake that have have lasting consequence for pensioner , I look back to the coalition Government ' s decision to cut the rate of energy installation by 90 % . pensioner be live with that legacy , in leaky home , day in day out , but this Government be get on with insulate home throughout the country . the 4 . 1 % increase in the new state pension will make a huge difference to pensioner in my constituency . what more be the Government do to tackle the cost of living crisis leave by the last government ? I thank my hon . friend for be a regular attender at Treasury question , and indeed , as far as I can work out , at every other departmental question session . he be right to suggest that we will do more , because we be not just increase pension above the rate of inflation this year but do so throughout the current Parliament , and that should raise the state pension by up to £ 1 , 900 by the end of the Parliament . high Streets : Liverpool Riverside what discussion she be have with Cabinet colleague on help to improve high street in Liverpool Riverside constituency . Liverpool City Region combine authority will benefit from the £ 900 million UK share prosperity fund , which will allow authority to invest in local community such as my hon . friend ' s . from the start of 2026 - 27 , her combine authority will receive a single flexible pot through its integrated settlement . integrated settlement will allow local leader across the UK to deliver important project for their area , include high street . to fulfil our manifesto pledge , we intend to introduce permanently low tax rate for retail , hospitality and leisure property — include those on high street — from 2026 - 27 . Everton , in my constituency , be the most deprived area in the country , and resident have receive a double blow as a result of the imminent closure of Lloyds Bank and the plan closure of the Crown post office , which will have a devastating impact on resident and business alike . will the Minister agree to meet I to discuss those closure and the desperate need for a banking hub in the area ? as every constituency MP will know , the closure of banking service on our high street be always a difficult decision . the Government be commit to championing access by roll out banking hub across the country . we be committed to deliver 350 of those hub , and 220 have already be announce . the closure of the post office that my hon . friend mention will trigger a further cash access assessment for her constituency . I would be pleased to arrange a meeting for she with the relevant Minister to look at the option for her constituency . rise — be there a Liverpool overspill in Strangford ? I call Jim Shannon . the Minister ' s response be key . he be right to highlight the issue , whether they be in Liverpool , Everton , Cardiff , Edinburgh , Belfast or Strangford . in Northern Ireland , we have make the most of over - the - shop apartment conversion as opportunity for housing . do the Minister agree that the possibility for the regeneration of high street and town centre also include housing opportunity ? we have a shared ambition to ensure that our high street be thrive community for the people who live , shop or work there . we be deliver an integrate settlement for combine authority mayor in England , and have deliver a real - term increase in funding for the Northern Ireland Executive — the large since devolution begin — to invest in exactly those type of local project . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . to follow on from what the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) say , high street up and down the land , be they in Liverpool Riverside , St Albans or anywhere else , have just be hit with the double whammy of the job tax and high business rate bill . what step be minister take to prevent an epidemic of board - up shop front in the next 12 month , before the new rate come in next year ? as I have inform the House already , we be commit to support independent business and retailer on the high street . the change to employer national insurance contribution be design to support small business in our country ; over 50 % of business will pay the same national insurance as before , or less than they do under the previous regime . the hon . Lady allude to the fact that we be bring forward permanent deduction in business rate taxation for the retail , hospitality and leisure sector , which will be important for the long - term sustainability of the business she mention . investment : Regulatory Policies what assessment she have make of the potential impact of her Department ' s regulatory policy on trend in the level of investment . we have hear from UK business that our regulatory system often hold back growth and investment . we recently publish a regulation action plan , and commit to cut the administrative cost of regulation for business by 25 % by the end of this Parliament . we be go far , fast than ever before to streamline regulation and make Britain the good place in the world to do business . the Minister will know that both domestic and international investor be often influence by decision take by multiple agency , regulator , and indeed Government Departments , which be why consistency be key . can the Minister update the House on how the Treasury be support a whole - of - government and whole - of - regulator approach to deliver coherent UK regulatory framework that strike a balance between protect consumer and boost the global competitiveness of the UK economy ? this be a whole - of - Government approach , and we have secure 60 commitment from key regulator to improve the business environment . the Government be streamline regulation and strip back its duplication , to ultimately deliver a regulatory system that encourage new investment , innovation and growth . inward investment project in Scotland grow by 12 . 7 % in 2023 , compare with 6 % across the rest of the United Kingdom . 2023 see record investment in Scotland , which maintain its position as the top - perform area of the UK for the ninth year run . international business want to locate in Scotland because they understand that GDP per person in Scotland have grow by 10 . 5 % , compare with 6 . 5 % in the rest of the UK , since 2007 . what impact do the Chancellor think her fiscal intervention since October will have on the attractiveness of Scotland as a destination , and what discussion have she have with the Scottish Government about the jeopardy that she have place our economy in ? the Chancellor deliver the big ever settlement for Scotland in October 2024 , and I think the answer be " thank you " . I call the shadow Minister . there be a great deal of speculation about the future of the cash individual saving account . as we know , it be an important saving mechanism for many saver across the country , all of whom will be dismay at the loss of a significant cash saving opportunity . just as importantly , cut cash isa will deprive building society of important fund for their balance sheet , reduce the amount of capital available for the residential mortgage market . this point have be raise with I by the mutual society . give that the loss of the cash ISA would have a profound effect on mutual ’ ability to raise debt capital , what research have the Government undertake to establish the extent of the damage that such a measure might inflict on the residential mortgage market , which be not just important for all our constituent , but crucial for the 1 . 5 million new home that the Government propose building ? I work closely with the mutual and other financial service firm , and I think the hon . Member be slightly jump the gun , if he do not mind my saying so . we be consider option to reform isa , but we need to get the balance right between cash and equity . we know that many people have investment in cash isa who could think about invest in our capital market , which would be a win for they through high return , and also for the economy . however , we absolutely understand the role that cash saving play in people have money for a rainy day . low Incomes : support what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to support people on the low income follow the spring statement 2025 . help people into good work and financial independence be at the heart of our approach to support people on the low income . that be why we have increase the national living wage by 6 . 7 % , which be equal to £ 1 , 400 this year for someone work full - time . our plan to make work pay will tackle the poor job security and working condition that have be hold back our economy , and the pathway to work Green Paper announce an additional £ 1 billion investment in employment , health and skill support . it be all very well for the Minister to talk about help people into work , but be he aware of the many million of people on personal independence payment who rely on they in order to work ? yet that PIP will be slash as a consequence of the spring statement . be he also aware that very many people would prefer the Government not to balance their book on the back of some of the poor and most vulnerable people in our society ? why be the Government reject a tax of just 2 % on people with asset of over £ 10 million , which would raise over £ 24 billion ? at the autumn Budget last year , the Chancellor announce a series of reform to fix the public finance in as fair a way as possible , and make sure that the wealthy in society pay their share of tax . the welfare reform announce in the spring statement be principle reform to help get people back into work , because work be the good way out of poverty . the reform also provide support for those who need it and make sure that the system be sustainable for the future . early this year , I speak to member of my local Christians against Poverty debt support team in Guildford , and they explain to I that they support many low - income individual out of debt , but they be no soon out of debt than they start accrue it again , because universal credit be insufficient to cover their basic need due to the cost of live in area such as Guildford . what work have the Minister do to assess whether universal credit level be sufficient to cover the varied and increase basic living cost across the country , and to prevent people on the low income from get far into difficulty and debt ? the Government have already take action on the fair repayment rate , lower the cap on deduction from universal credit to 15 % — it be 25 % before the autumn Budget last year . that will benefit 1 . 2 million household by an average of £ 420 a year , and 700 , 000 of the poor family with child will benefit . I call the shadow Minister . business have just be hit by the Chancellor ' s £ 25 billion job tax , which will cost work family £ 3 , 500 ; also , business rate be nearly double for hospitality and retail business . how do impose taxis that the Office for Budget Responsibility say will result in low wage , high price and few job help growth and those on the low income , and will the Chancellor keep she promise not to come back with more taxis in this Parliament ? the shadow Minister talk about business rate support . I remind he that if we have carry on with the plan inherit from the conservative party , business rate relief would have end entirely this month . it be only thank to a decision of this government that rate relief be continue for this year , ahead of permanent reform that will permanently lower tax rate for retail , hospitality and leisure premise on the high street from April 2026 . that be thank to a decision this Government make . Wealth tax : Potential Merits what recent assessment she have make of the potential merit of introduce a wealth tax . if she will make an assessment of the potential implication for her policy of the finding of Oxfam ' s poll on taxation , publish on 25 March 2025 . this Government be commit to ensure that the wealthy in our society pay their fair share of tax . the Chancellor announce a series of reform at autumn Budget 2024 to help fix the public finance as fairly as possible . those reform include increase the rate of capital gain tax , increase air passenger duty for private jet , and raise stamp duty for buyer of second or more home . analysis from a number of disability group show that the " pathway to work " Green Paper will have a detrimental effect on more than 3 million people , while polling from Oxfam show that 77 % of the public would rather the UK Government increase taxis on the very rich than cut the benefit of the poor in society . should we not be look at raise fund from those with the broad shoulder ? as I make clear early , the Government have already make change to make the tax system fairer , and to ensure that the wealthy pay their fair share . the reform to the welfare system be principle reform to tackle perverse incentive that encourage inactivity . we need to support those in most need , get people back into work wherever possible , and protect the sustainability of the welfare system . let we be frank and not spin it : for 14 year , we see austerity that rip the heart out of community ; we then have a global pandemic , during which inequality be accelerate ; and we be still feel the effect of a cost of living crisis that be make ordinary people poorer . the public do not want cut or austerity — they want an annual wealth tax on the very wealthy in society . be it not time we have a Government who do something different , give people what they want , and be willing to redistribute wealth for the benefit of many in society , and to improve living standard ? I politely suggest that if my hon . friend think we be impose austerity , he have not read the Budget very carefully . it contain increase to revenue spending in all Departments — across the public spending envelope — and an increase in capital investment . we be ensure that we build for the future while protect our fiscal rule . let I be clear : those fiscal rule be not a nice - to - have addition to the way we approach the economy . fiscal irresponsibility have a huge cost , as we see under the previous Government . we support the Government in try to determine a fair level of tax , especially for the very wealthy . however , will the Minister establish , if he can , the number of people who might leave the country as a result of a wealth tax , and therefore pay no income tax whatsoever ? the hon . Gentleman make an important point : we need to ensure that the wealthy in society pay their fair share , while also attract talent from around the world to the UK to work , invest and help to grow our economy . it be on the back of that investment and economic growth that we will make people across the UK well off , and get more money into their pocket . Banking Services what step she be take to ensure rural community have access to banking hub . what step she be take to help protect in - person banking . the Government understand the importance of in - person banking to community and be work closely with the industry to roll out 350 banking hub across the UK . More than 220 hub have already be announce , of which more than 135 be already open . rural community such as Settle in North Yorkshire be really struggle with the loss of face - to - face banking service . link hub be one route for they to replace the bank that be close . I urge Ministers to do what they can with Link — I accept that it be an independent organisation — to help it to relax the criterion for rural community , allow they more face - to - face banking service . I would be very happy to meet the right hon . Gentleman if he want to discuss a specific banking hub that be be consider . we work very closely with Link . as he will know , his Government pass the Financial Services and Markets Act 2023 , under which the Financial Conduct Authority , Link and the financial service sector ultimately have power over the criterion , which be not something we be plan to change . how do the Minister plan to make it easy to establish banking hub in community that have lose all of their bank ? I do have a meeting set up with the previous Minister , but she leave Government before that meeting could take place . will this Minister agree to meet I so that I can discuss the establishment of a banking hub in the town of Cheshunt in my Broxbourne constituency ? I be always happy to meet colleague and will be happy to meet the hon . Gentleman . the criterion apply by Link be too strict , and bank be be able to walk away from their customer . in Eltham , we have have a salami - slicing process of bank gradually leave the high street , but , because we have a building society , we can not ask for a hub . will the Minister undertake to review Link ' s approach , because it be make it difficult for customer to carry out their banking business ? as I say in my previous answer , we do not have any plan to change the Link criterion ; those be a matter for Link . however , there be some flexibility in the way that it apply the criterion , depend on the local population , travel time to nearby bank branch and , indeed , the number of small business in an area . I would be happy to meet my hon . friend if that be of concern to he . Topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . Mr Speaker , you shock I by move to topical question so quickly , but I have now find my page and be ready to answer they . you need to get a new watch ! from ferry to the National Care Service , we have see failure after failure from the SNP in Scotland , include a track record of waste . in contrast , this Labour Government be tackle waste and invest in frontline service such as our national health service , which have see waiting list fall for each of the past five month in England . we hope that the people of Scotland will soon have the opportunity to experience such a transformation . the Chancellor set out in the spring statement a clear plan to drive well value for taxpayer , include through the transformation fund , which will transform frontline delivery while make saving in the long term . do he agree that that be in stark contrast to the SNP Scottish Government ' s record of waste ? as my hon . friend know , we have give the Scottish Government the large increase in spending since devolution begin . the people of Scotland expect that money to be spend well , which we be do in England by transform public service and improve the national health service . however , give that SNP Members be not present in the Chamber today , the people of Scotland need to know that they will have to elect a Labour Government in Scotland later next year for that to happen . I call the shadow Chancellor . it be obvious to many before the emergency Budget that the President of the United States be go to be slap tariff on our export . may I therefore ask the Chancellor why it be that she come forward at the emergency Budget with a recklessly slender slither of headroom — the same headroom that she have at the time of the autumn Budget , which prove then to be entirely inadequate . she blow that headroom and more due to her disastrous economic choice . I be sorry to disappoint the shadow Chancellor , but I be afraid that , because of the ordering of question , he be stick with I . to answer his question , he will have see at the Budget that we increase the fiscal headroom back to our agreement of £ 9 . 9 billion , which be more than the headroom that we inherit from the conservative party . the key difference be that this be a Government who take economic and political stability seriously , because when a government lose control of the economy , they lose control of family finance and , ultimately , end up in opposition . just to correct the record , the Order Paper have not change at all in topical . you be quite right about that , Mr Speaker , as you be about everything . indeed , the right hon . Gentleman be completely wrong when he say that he inherit less headroom than be the case at the autumn Budget . he inherit , on the current Budget , £ 23 billion , and he take it down to £ 9 . 9 billion to be precise . he also loosen the fiscal target , which be why he be not underwater already on the target that we have when we be in government . may I ask he this : the fiscal target be look like they will be under a great deal of pressure come the autumn . there be a great deal of speculation and uncertainty among business as to whether this will lead to tax increase . can he take away that uncertainty now , particularly give the tariff and all the uncertainty that be vest in that , to make it clear at that Dispatch Box that there will be no further increase in taxation on business this Parliament ? my apology , Mr Speaker . it be our ordering that cause the problem , not the ordering of question in the House . the right hon . Gentleman know that tight decision be take at the Budget , but we have be very clear that we be work hand in glove with business to be able to bring growth back to the economy and to ensure that investment — private sector and public sector — be come forward . as he will know , from his time of swim underwater , this Government be take a different approach to fiscal discipline , and he should welcome that . the defence sector be a vital part of our local economy in Derby , particularly with the landmark £ 9 billion deal strike with Rolls - Royce , which be support the Royal Navy ' s submarine and provide a major job boost . do the Chancellor agree that national security go hand in hand with economic security and , in turn , financial security for household ? the first duty of any Government be to keep the nation safe . that be why we be increase defence spending as a share of gdp to 2 . 5 % — the big sustained increase in defence spending since the end of the cold war . Derby have a vital role to play within the UK ' s defence sector , particularly in nuclear engineering and aerospace , as demonstrate by the landmark £ 9 billion deal with Rolls - Royce , which will create up to 1 , 000 job in the city and protect thousand more . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I welcome the fast action by the Government to convene the automotive industry in reaction to President Trump ' s damage tariff , but the measure in and of themselves will not create new export market or stimulate demand here in the UK . will Ministers look at Liberal Democrat call to reintroduce the plug - in car grant and equalise vat for electric vehicle pavement charging ? will the Government instruct the valuation office to scrap business rate for ev charging bay until the transition be complete ? the support that we announce yesterday on the phase - out of internal combustion engine car be very much welcome by the automotive sector . it will give much more flexibility around the allowance and around plug - in hybrid vehicle . all of that be welcome , but we be keep a watching brief as well as try to ensure that there be new market for car make in Britain in other country around the world by secure more trade deal . what be the Chancellor do to support business and boost wage in town such as Burney , Padiham and Brierfield , which be forget for 14 year under the previous Government ? my hon . friend be do great work support local business in Burnley , include the digital marketing start - up door4 , which I know he have be champion . I have be contact by many local business , include the Cross Keys pub in the Holt Heath nature reserve and the BEAR caf é in Wimborne . they be two different venue in two different location , but both tell I that these be the most extreme trading condition ever see in hospitality . with national insurance , minimum wage and energy and food cost , will the Chancellor consider a reduction in vat on hospitality sale to protect high street and local producer and to save our community ? I be unclear , give the hon . Lady ' s remark , whether she be oppose to the increase in the national minimum wage , but she should know that we have extend support for business in business rate relief this year , which would have be end entirely under the plan we inherit from the previous Government , and there will be permanently low multiplier for retail , hospitality and leisure premise on the high street from April 2026 . as a north London MP , I know that tackle the high housing cost in this city be a priority for my constituent . it be my belief that one route to that be invest in the country as a whole , so that we be not just fly on one London - shape engine . to that end , do you know , Mr Speaker , that Leeds be the large city in western Europe that do not have a tram or a mass transit system ? that be a damn indictment of decade of economic failure . will the Chancellor do all she can to ensure that the Leeds tram be build as fast as possible so that her constituent and mine can be well off ? hear , hear . I have well declare an interest as a proud Member of Parliament for Leeds West and Pudsey . West Yorkshire combine authority be receive £ 830 million for transport spending through round 1 of the city region sustainable transport settlement . that include £ 200 million for the development of a mass transport system . for too long Leeds have lack this . this government will put that investment in and get those tram run . with the job tax and the increase in business rate , and as a result of US tariff , it be vital that we stimulate the UK economy . what be the Chancellor ' s plan , and can she expect we to see interest rate fall ? perhaps if she be listen to the question , she would be able to answer . I think that be a question about business rate reform . as the right hon . Lady will know , we publish a discussion paper on transform business rate . I be sure that the right hon . Lady will have read and respond to that , so I will look out for her consultation response in what we have receive . transform business rate be about ensure that we make the business rate system fit for the future to support investment and business growth right across the UK . will the Minister join I in congratulate Goodwin International , which be build a multimillion - pound production unit in Newstead in Stoke - on - Trent South , create up to 100 job in defence manufacturing ? do he agree that increase investment in defence spending will have a tangible impact on my constituent , fuel job and local investment ? yes , and I congratulate my hon . friend on championing job and business in her constituency . as she know , the Prime Minister and the Chancellor have confirm that defence spending will increase to 2 . 5 % of gdp by 2027 and that a minimum of 10 % of the Ministry of Defence equipment budget will now be spend on novel technology such as drone and artificial intelligence , which will create highly skilled job and drive benefit to the wide economy , include in her constituency of Stoke - on - Trent South . early , in response to my hon . friend the Member for Grantham and Bourne ( Gareth Davies ) , the Chief Secretary reject Labour ' s Climate Change Committee ' s advice regard aviation policy . that also go directly against what the Energy Secretary have commit to . who in Government should we believe when it come to aviation policy ? the right hon . Member know that we be support airport expansion alongside investment in thing like sustainable aviation fuel to be able to reduce carbon emission from long - haul flight as well as support investment into decarbonise surface transport , to help people get around the country and to their airport . opposition Members might want to welcome investment into this country , as oppose to talk it down . will the Minister introduce a 12 - month delay to the incoming change in taxation for double - cab pick - up truck ? the manufacturer and their commercial customer feel that they have have insufficient time to adjust to the new change this month . can he share with we any impact assessment work carry out on the reclassification of double - cab pick - up and what effect it would have on the sector in Britain ? we have engage with the automotive sector on this issue , and there be generous transitional arrangement in place to mitigate the impact . the Government have have to take difficult decision , but at the autumn budget 2024 we prioritise long - term support for growth - drive sector , include more than £ 2 billion over five year to support the automotive sector . ineffective energy trading with the EU be a major barrier for global investor . accord to Energy UK , we be lose out on £ 30 billion of investment in interconnector alone . what will the Government do to improve our energy trading with the EU to unlock this vital opportunity ? the Prime Minister ' s plan for change set out our ambitious but achievable target of clean power by 2030 . the clean power action plan demonstrate the significant investment requirement to reach that target , include in renewable infrastructure , and the action that we will take to facilitate that . we have already take action to remove the de facto ban on onshore wind in England , approve major solar project and deliver a record - break renewable auction . the last Government leave 4 . 5 million child in poverty , but , like many colleague , I be alarmed that the impact assessment of the spring statement suggest that that number will rise , not fall . will the Minister tell I when we can expect the result of the child poverty taskforce ? will they be deliver in time to influence decision in the spending review ? my hon . friend know that the Government be commit to reduce child poverty and that we will be bring forward a child poverty strategy later this year . it will look at lever that support household to increase their income , such as support parent into secure employment , support progression in the labour market and consider social security reform . I confirm that the work of the taskforce be feed into the spending review . the Chancellor talk early about the Government ' s response to the new US trade policy , but what be the Government do about China ' s abuse of the world trade system ? in particular , what will they do to challenge China ' s status as a develop country at the World Trade Organisation ? that be the mean by which China dodge so many of the rule impose on country such as Britain and other in the west . trade issue be for the Secretary of State for Business and Trade , but I will say this . there be rightly concern about global trade imbalance , but the response of the United States by put tariff on all country — include the UK , which do not have a trade surplus — be a disproportionate response to a genuine problem of global trade imbalance . I very much welcome the Chancellor ' s commitment to invest in life science in this country . may I encourage she to support the bid for a national mental health diagnostic and research centre in my constituency , not least because poor mental health be estimate to cost this country up to £ 300 billion a year in lose economic production ? yesterday , the Prime Minister announce reform to speed up clinical trial to ensure that the good new drug can come to this country , benefit from our NHS . on the issue of mental health treatment , I agree with my hon . friend about the importance of address that , both for the health and wellbeing of individual and because of the economic benefit that he speak to . I be happy to arrange a meeting with the relevant Minister . on 30 October , the Chancellor upend our economy through tax rise and punitive death taxis . she have deliver a devastating blow to family farm and small family business — the very backbone of our economy . when will the Chancellor recognise that she be elect by the people , for the people ? every day that she avoid engage with the farming community be another day of wilful neglect . our farmer be be drive out , not by market force but by a Government blind to their struggle and deaf to their voice . when will she listen and speak with they ? as the hon . Lady and I have discuss in several debate in recent month , the decision we take on agricultural property relief and business property relief be difficult , but it be the right and balance one to ensure we protect family farm and small business while fix the public finance in a fair way . fix the public finance be in the interest of every Member of this House and all the constituent we represent , because it underpin the investment we be put into the future of this country and into get the economy grow . many thousand of my constituent in Paisley and Renfrewshire South work in and rely on public service that be on their knee after 18 year of under - investment by the SNP Government at Holyrood . will my right hon . friend set out how the view of my constituent will be reflect in the spending review ? because of the decision that we make in the Budget last year , we be able to provide a record settlement for Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland . it be a shame that the SNP MPs be not in the Chamber today . it be now the SNP ' s responsibility to spend that money wisely and invest in public service . we be bring down NHS waiting list in England and Wales ; the same can not be say of Scotland . in July 2023 , my constituent Alison claim a refund of overpay tax that be mistakenly pay twice . in February 2024 , she be tell that her claim would be assess by 20 March , in July 2024 she be tell that it would be by 22 October , and in December she be tell that she could not have a date but that the department have definitely receive her claim 16 month previously . she have hear nothing since . will the Chancellor agree to meet I to discuss this very vexed situation for someone who have very little money , give that this claim be nearly 21 month delay ? I be sorry to hear about the hon . Lady ' s constituent ' s experience with , I assume , his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs . even though , as the Minister with responsibility for HMRC , I can not get directly involve in individual case , I be happy to raise it with HMRC and make sure that it give the matter proper attention to try and resolve it . local business have huge potential to create local growth in our community . it be fantastic to see my right hon . friend the Chief Secretary to the Treasury visit Derby South early this year and engage with business leader . do the Minister agree that continue engagement with business leader be absolutely key to build the business confidence that we so desperately need and which be shatter by the previous Government ? I thank my hon . friend for his question and for the invitation to join he in his constituency . I very much enjoy the regional reception with business leader , as I have do in every region and nation across the country during the spending review . we will continue to work hand in glove with they to unlock investment , create job and create growth for everybody , across the whole country . early , when the Chancellor be talk about the impact of tariff , she pledge that the Government would act in our national interest . how can it be in the whole national interest , so long as the trade law govern Northern Ireland be not the trade law of the UK but those of a foreign jurisdiction , namely the EU ? we have an urgent question shortly . we inherit the settlement make by the previous Government , as the hon . and learn Member will know . there be a summit between the UK and the EU on 18 May where we will be look to reduce the barrier to trade between the whole of the United Kingdom and the European Union . we recognise the specific issue around Northern Ireland , particularly in regard to the response to the tariff , and we will continue to work with the Executive there to ensure that we get the good outcome for the people of Northern Ireland . EU tariff : United States and Northern Ireland Economy ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland if he will update the House on the likely impact on the northern irish economy of EU tariff on the US . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for his question . as the Prime Minister have say , tariff be not good news for anyone and no one want a trade war . the Government be do everything possible to keep Britain secure during this new era of global instability , and we will always act in the good interest of business in Northern Ireland . as part of our custom territory and internal market , Northern Ireland exporter be face a general 10 % US tariff and a 25 % tariff on steel , aluminium and car , like other exporter across the United Kingdom . Northern Ireland be not therefore uniquely disadvantaged . we be , of course , prepare for the EU ' s next move and any possible retaliatory tariff that it may or may not introduce , as well as consider the impact that new EU tariff would have on Northern Ireland business import from the United States of America , because under the Windsor framework , the EU tariff would apply . as hon . member will know , however , because of the Windsor framework , business can reclaim any such tariff through the exist duty reimbursement scheme in case where US import into Northern Ireland do not then enter the European Union . the custom duty waiver scheme also allow duty to be waive entirely , subject to an overall limit . these scheme work in our national interest , and his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs be continue to talk to and support any business that might be affect , to help they understand how to use the duty reimbursement and custom duty waiver scheme . the Minister for the Cabinet Office have talk about all this with EU counterpart in recent day , because the Government be fully aware of how sensitive this issue be for business in Northern Ireland . what we need in these circumstance be a calm and consider response , and that be what the Government will continue to provide . I call the shadow Secretary of State . thank you very much , Mr Speaker , for grant this urgent question . it be incredibly important that this House have the opportunity to question the Government on this issue before the Easter break and before the implementation of these tariff . I have enormous respect for my opposite number in the Northern Ireland Office , but it be totally unacceptable that we should have get to this stage in proceeding without a Minister come to the House to update we on the likely impact on business in Northern Ireland of this emerge tariff war between the US and the EU . as the House will know , this come off the back of the considerable damage do to the economy in Northern Ireland by the Budget last year , by the increase in national insurance contribution and by the change to the national minimum wage , which have completely undermine business confidence and which be drive unemployment in the region . I ask the right hon . gentleman to answer the follow three question . first , a week on from the United States ' announcement and some time after the EU ' s publication of a 99 - page draft of its tariff response , have the Government now do an impact assessment of what this mean for the northern irish economy and for business in Northern Ireland , and will he publish it ? secondly , he rightly mention the duty reimbursement scheme , which would allow business take good from Great Britain to Northern Ireland and have to pay the EU tariff to reclaim that tariff . that scheme be now go to be put under enormous pressure . it be go to have to deal with volume not foresee when it be originally put together . do the Secretary of State have complete confidence that it will be able to reimburse business in a timely fashion so as not to disrupt trade ? thirdly and finally , because Northern Ireland remain within the EU custom code , affect Northern Ireland business buy affect good will have to pay EU tariff , but the same competitive business in GB will not . what be the Government go to do to ensure that such business be not leave disadvantaged , and that we do not see serious distortion of trade ? with that in mind , will the Secretary of State confirm to the House that in the event that we see a major diversion of trade , his Government will be prepared to use article 16 of the Windsor framework , which allow the Government to take decision to ensure that business in Northern Ireland be not damage ? it be incredibly important that business hear from the Secretary of State that the Government be prepared to protect they in the event that this tariff war create a diversion of trade for business there . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for his question . I be slightly surprised by his initial comment , because of course we touch on this matter in Northern Ireland oral question — only because I raise it . indeed , but we touch on this matter in Northern Ireland oral last week , and the Business Secretary make a statement to the House last week . to answer the hon . Gentleman ' s question , of course the Government have be prepare for and look at all eventuality , but until we know what the EU retaliatory tariff be , it do not make much sense to publish speculation about their potential impact . on the duty reimbursement scheme , I have meet HMRC official , because I agree with the hon . Gentleman that it be important that the scheme work effectively , depend on the number of Northern Ireland business that be affect , to reimburse tariff . I would just say , however , that Northern Ireland import about £ 800 million - worth of good from the United States of America , which be about 2 % of Northern Ireland ' s total purchase . that impact upon his third question . we be go to have to take this a stage at a time . the Prime Minister have make it quite clear that he will do what be in the national interest to protect our business , our company and our economic future , but it be precisely because of the Windsor framework that the duty reimbursement scheme exist . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . the EU be currently consult its member state on the good that it may target in response to the US tariff . the Secretary of State have speak about there be no need to make an assessment yet , but in advance of the EU impose retaliatory measure , have he make any assessment at all , if there be any point ? be he engage with the European Commission to ensure that the interest of Northern Ireland business and consumer be fully take into account in determine how the EU respond to the US tariff ? as I indicate in answer to the Opposition spokesperson , of course the Government have be prepare for all eventuality , but as I also indicate , there be no point in publish something that be not base on the actual tariff that the EU decide to impose . therefore , it be sensible to wait until that moment arrive . secondly , the EU will take such action as it determine to be in its interest in response to the 20 % tariff that the United States of America have impose on the EU in addition to the tariff on steel , aluminium and car . let we not forget that the Windsor framework give Northern Ireland business unique access to the european market , which be not something that be enjoy by business in Great Britain . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . as the Financial Times report at the weekend — and as I think the Secretary of State have just confirm — in the event of EU retaliatory tariff , good import from the United States into Northern Ireland will by default be effectively force down the red lane . that , of course , mean additional custom check , time and red tape and , in the event of their imposition , EU tariff rate for good come into Northern Ireland , irrespective of their ultimate destination . that risk a scenario where Northern Ireland importer be penalise more than almost any other business in either the UK or the EU , first at the border and then in administer the reclamation of those cost . let we be clear : this chaotic situation be entirely the consequence of Donald Trump ' s destructive trade war . what be the Government do to ensure that President Trump and the US Administration be alert to the deeply destabilising effect of their tariff policy on the Good Friday agreement and the prospect of peace in Northern Ireland ? what active step be the Government take to mitigate the potential disruption to Northern Ireland business that be now unwittingly catch up in Donald Trump ' s trade war ? the single most important thing we can do for those business in Northern Ireland be , as I indicate a moment ago , to ensure that the duty reimbursement scheme work speedily and effectively — provide that those business can demonstrate that their good be not move into the European Union , for the obvious reason that otherwise Northern Ireland would become a back door for good seek to avoid the retaliatory tariff . the Government will take all necessary step to protect british business in the very difficult circumstance that we be face , include by continue to seek to negotiate an economic deal with the United States of America , which we have be engage in for week now . what come out of that remain to be see , but it be part of the Government ' s calm and consider approach . the complexity of trade relationship on the island of Ireland be a result of Brexit . work north - south be as important as work east - west . do the Secretary of State agree that strengthen relationship not just with the European Union but with the Republic of Ireland Government can put Northern Ireland into a pivotal position to navigate this new uncertainty ? we be all have to navigate this new uncertainty as a result of the decision that the US Administration have make . it be certainly true that leave the European Union have create new complexity . the reason why there be a Windsor framework be that there be two entity — the United Kingdom and the European Union — with different trading rule but an open border , and some method therefore have to be find to deal with the consequence of that . as I have say to the House before , try to wish away that basic fact have not really work . it be important that we keep cool head . there will be attempt , subsequent to my question , to relitigate the Brexit war . the fact of the matter be that the 2019 Brexit deal and the Windsor framework give Northern Ireland a unique competitive advantage : 10 % export and access to the single market . will the Secretary of State consider a rapid automatic reimbursement scheme , as the shadow Secretary of State allude to ? that scheme be at the centre of ease tension should there be retaliation on the EU side . the right hon . Gentleman be absolutely right about the benefit that the Windsor framework have give business in Northern Ireland in term of access to the EU market . I would just say to he that , in the event of EU retaliatory tariff , " rapid automatic " do not quite square with the need of business in Northern Ireland that import american good , because they have to demonstrate that those good be not then move on to the European Union . that require they to provide evidence to HMRC in order to get the tariff reimburse . I thank the Secretary of State for his initial response to the urgent question . of course , this situation be a reminder that the people of Northern Ireland be absolutely right to oppose Brexit in that referendum . I be really disappointed that the shadow Secretary of State start his supplementary question by complain about the lowest - pay worker in Northern Ireland get a pay rise — absolutely incredible . the Secretary of State touch on the trade negotiation between the UK and the United States . can he reassure we that the situation in Northern Ireland be absolutely at the heart of those negotiation ? I be very happy to assure my hon . friend that the interest of all part of the United Kingdom , include Northern Ireland , be uppermost in the mind of all Ministers in try to deal with the situation we now find ourselves in . the Secretary of State say that the EU will take action on tariff in its good interest , but business in Northern Ireland expect the Government to take action in the good interest of the United Kingdom — include Northern Ireland , which be part of the United Kingdom . he talk about how this can all be resolve by the reimbursement scheme . the fact of the matter be that the reimbursement scheme have fail . business have to produce masse of information , and there be delay in payment — some business have to wait for hundred of thousand of pound to be reimburse in taxis . that be not the answer . surely , the answer be for the UK to collect the taxis that we impose on american good and leave the EU to collect the taxis that it impose . what the right hon . Gentleman propose ignore the reality that face Northern Ireland as a result of the United Kingdom ' s decision to leave the European Union , and the fact that there be a problem that have to be solve . the duty reimbursement scheme owe its existence to the Windsor framework . it be important , as I have say to the House , that the scheme work effectively , but business do need to provide information to demonstrate that the good have not subsequently move into the European Union , for reason that I think he understand . I be particularly concerned about the cash flow of small business in Northern Ireland in the event that the EU increase its tariff . in his discussion with HMRC , have the Secretary of State establish what the average waiting time be for the duty reimbursement scheme to kick in ? be there any prospect of shortening that time if the amount of money out of the door increase in the event of EU tariff ? the hon . Gentleman raise an important point for business in Northern Ireland . as he would expect , I have have precisely that discussion with HMRC . the honest answer to the question of how long it take be that it depend on how quickly business provide the necessary information to demonstrate that good have remain in the United Kingdom and have not move to the EU . once that information be provide , the scheme should work effectively . it may help he if I point out that the customs duty waiver scheme — a separate scheme — allow up to € 300 , 000 per company over a three - year rolling average , which will obviously benefit small business . if they come within that heading , they do not have to pay the tariff up front . sadly , I have hear nothing today that will give business in my constituency any reassurance that the UK Government be prepared to protect they . I recognise that it be not good practice to comment on speculation , but it be and would be good practice to leave business in no doubt that the Government — their Government , to whom they pay hefty taxis — will protect they from EU tariff . we can not be leave in a scenario where business be reliant on a duty reimbursement scheme that do not work — it take month to get repayment . will the Secretary of State give more clarity to business in Upper Bann that he will protect they ? I have do my level well to set out the situation . we all understand the reason . Northern Ireland gain from the Windsor framework because of its access — [ interruption . ] well , it do gain from access to the EU market that other part of the United Kingdom do not enjoy . but there be a consequence , which be what we be discuss in relation to the imposition of tariff by the United States of America . that be a decision that the US Administration have take , and we all have to deal with the consequence . HMRC have of course already be talk to business that might be affect to ensure that they understand how the tariff reimbursement scheme and the customs duty waiver scheme work . the Government ' s advice to Northern Ireland business seem to be , " keep calm and carry on . " well , that create an awful lot of uncertainty for small and medium - sized enterprise in Northern Ireland . will the Secretary of State put a little more meat on the bone in relation to what the Government be do ? as he say , the EU will take action in its interest , but that action may not be in the interest of Northern Ireland business or consumer . what will the Government do ? in the circumstance in which this country and many country around the world find themselves , we be have this discussion because of a decision that the United States Administration have take . we do not control that . what we do have to seek to control be our response to it . I have try to lay out for the House today what the position be and what be available to support business that may be affect by the EU tariff , once we understand what those be . we will see how extensive they may or may not be , and then business will start to work out for themselves what be the consequence and how we can use the mechanism of the reimbursement scheme in the Windsor framework to get back the money that they have to pay in a tariff . business require clarity and certainty . will the Secretary of State undertake to come back to the House as soon as we have that clarity and certainty ? will he ensure that the EU understand that the open border he keep talk about be an unclosable border and try to give business more certainty so that they can develop in the future ? notwithstanding what we have be discuss today , Northern Ireland import about £ 800 million - worth of good from the United States of America , which be about 2 % of the total purchase make by Northern Ireland . the rest — 98 % of the purchase — be unaffected by any EU retaliatory tariff relate to good bring into Northern Ireland . as I travel round Northern Ireland , I see that there be great business opportunity and lot of investment come in . as I say to the House last week , Northern Ireland have a high rate of growth than the UK as a whole and the low unemployment . as Secretary of State for Northern Ireland , be the right hon . Gentleman not embarrass that he and his Government have no control over the tariff in respect of good import into Northern Ireland ? be the obvious and inevitable answer not to repatriate to the United Kingdom control over trade law ? what happen if Northern Ireland be use as a conduit by the Republic of Ireland or the EU to export good to the US ? who check those good and where ? as I think I have say to the hon . and learn Gentleman before , I would not have start from here myself in relation to the cause that lead eventually to the negotiation of the Windsor framework , which be a huge improvement on the Northern Ireland protocol . we do not control the decision that the United States Administration have take . what we have to do be make sure that we stand with business , include in Northern Ireland , to provide they with support , and a mechanism that allow they to reclaim the tariff be the most practical step we can take . it be already in place because of the Windsor framework . the Secretary of State have outline the case , but I be afraid he have not give any answer , and that be disappointing . the promise be make to Northern Ireland mp that we would not be disadvantage by any EU retention . that be clearly not to be the case , and Government need to address that directly . will the Secretary of State set out when discussion to extricate Northern Ireland from EU rule will begin and when we can expect to see our interest look after , as be promise by both the Prime Minister and the Secretary of State ? I be here last week when we get those promise , but today , unfortunately , we do not . the situation that Northern Ireland business may find themselves in if there be EU retaliatory tariff be a product of the Windsor framework , which give benefit to business in Northern Ireland as well as require the payment of the tariff that can be claim back . the single most important reason for stick with the implementation of the Windsor framework be that we want to negotiate close economic relationship with the European Union , include a sanitary and phytosanitary and a veterinary agreement . member from Northern Ireland have on many occasion raise the consequence of the current arrangement . thing could be a lot easy if we get that agreement , but as I have point out to the House many time before , if we do not honour the last agreement that the United Kingdom as a country sign under the last government with the European Union , how exactly do we expect to get a new agreement — in particular an SPS and veterinary agreement , which would help many business in the movement of good across the irish sea ? tackle Child Sexual Abuse with permission , I will make a statement update the House on Government action to tackle child sexual abuse and exploitation and on progress on the recommendation of the independent inquiry . child sexual abuse and exploitation be the most horrific and disturbing crime — an abuse of power against those who be most vulnerable , leave lifelong trauma and scar . good estimate suggest that 500 , 000 child be sexually abuse every year . analysis by the police find that there be 115 , 000 record case of child sexual abuse in 2023 ; 4 , 228 group - base offence identify by the CSE taskforce , of which 1 , 125 be family abuse ; and 717 be sexual exploitation case . in a grow number of record case , the perpetrator themselves be under 18 . the House will be aware that , in its first year of operation up to March 2024 , the grooming gang taskforce contribute to 550 arrest across the country . in the last nine month of 2024 , the taskforce contribute to 597 arrest . in other word , it surpass in that nine - month period what it achieve in its first full year of operation . datum for the first three month of this year be currently be collect from force and will be available early next month , but all round we be make progress at every level to increase the number of investigation , the number of arrest and , most importantly , the number of victim who be see their attacker bring to justice . despite the seriousness and severity of these crime , there have be a shameful failure by institution and those in power over many year to protect child from abuse or exploitation , so we be today set out a progress update on action this government be take to tackle child sexual abuse and exploitation , to get support and justice for victim , and to ensure that perpetrator be catch and put behind bar . action on CSA since the election mean that we be introduce a new child sexual abuse police performance framework , include new standard on public protection , child abuse and exploitation ; legislation target online offending , include abuse and grooming enable by artificial intelligence ; new power for Border Force to detect digitally hold child sex abuse at the UK border ; new restriction prevent register sex offender from change their name to hide the threat they pose ; and increase investment in law enforcement capability , through the police undercover online network and the Tackling Organised Exploitation Programme . in the Home Secretary ' s statement to the House in January , she set out what we be do to crack down on groom gang , and today I can provide an update on that work . Baroness Casey ' s three - month national audit on group - base child sexual exploitation and abuse be ongoing . it be build a comprehensive national picture of what be know about child sexual exploitation , identify local and national trend , assess the quality of datum , look at the ethnicity issue face , for example , by case involve pakistani heritage gang , and review police and wide agency understanding . we be develop a new good practice framework to support local authority that want to undertake victim - centre local inquiry or related work , draw on the lesson from local independent inquiry such as those in Telford , Rotherham and Greater Manchester . we will publish the detail next month . alongside that , we will set out the process through which local authority can access the £ 5 million national fund to support locally - lead work on groom gang . follow feedback from local authority , the fund will adopt a flexible approach to support both full independent local inquiry and more bespoke work , include local victim ' panel or locally lead audits of the handling of historical case . the chair of the National Police Chiefs ' Council , Gavin Stephens , have , at the Home Secretary ' s request , urge the chief constable of all 43 police force in England and Wales to re - examine their investigation into group - base child sexual exploitation that result in a " no further action " decision . as of 1 April , the Child Sexual Abuse Review Panel can review child sexual abuse case that take place after 2013 . victim and survivor can now ask the panel to independently review their case if they have not already exercise their victim ' right to review . I can also announce that we intend to expand the independent child traffic guardian scheme across all of England and Wales , provide direct support to many more child victim of sexual exploitation and groom that to date have only be available in select area . these measure will enable more victim and survivor to receive the truth , justice , improvement and accountability they deserve and put more vile perpetrator of this crime behind bar . much of this crucial activity build on the vital work of the independent inquiry into child sexual abuse that be undertake between 2015 and 2022 . let I , on behalf of the whole house , again thank Professor Alexis Jay for chair that seven - year national inquiry with such expertise , diligence and compassion . IICSA reveal the terrible suffering cause to many child sexual abuse victim , and the shameful failure of institution to put the protection of child before the protection of their own reputation . the inquiry draw on the testimony of over 7 , 000 victim and survivor , and consider over 2 million page of evidence . its finding , culminate in the final report publish in October 2022 , be design to well protect child from sexual abuse , and address the shortcoming that leave they expose to harm . the publication of that final report two and a half year ago should have be a landmark moment , but instead the victim and survivor be fail again . none of the inquiry ' s recommendation be implement or properly take forward by the previous Government in the 20 month they have to do so . as part of today ' s progress update on our action on child sexual abuse , the Government be set out a detailed update and timetable for the work that be under way on the iicsa recommendation . I can announce to the House that , to prioritise the protection of child and improve national oversight and consistency of child protection practice , this Government will establish a new child protection authority . build on the national child safeguard review panel , the child protection authority will address one of IICSA ' s central recommendation by provide national leadership and learn on child protection and safeguarding . work to expand the role of the panel will begin immediately , and we will consult on develop the new authority this year . we have also ask Ofsted , his Majesty ' s inspectorate of constabulary and fire and rescue service and the Care Quality Commission to conduct a joint thematic review of child abuse in family setting , start this autumn . the IICSA report recommend the introduction of a new mandatory duty to report — something that the Prime Minister , the Home Secretary and I have all support for more than a decade . in the Crime and Policing Bill we will now be take forward a new mandatory duty to report child sexual abuse for individual in England undertaking activity with child and , crucially , a new criminal offence of obstruct an individual from make a report under that duty . mandatory reporting will create a culture of openness and honesty , rather than cover - up and secrecy . it will empower professional and volunteer to take prompt , decisive action to report sexual abuse . it will demonstrate to child and young people that if they come forward , they will be hear . anyone who deliberately seek to prevent someone from fulfil their mandatory duty to report child sexual abuse will face the full force of the law . today ' s update also set out how the Government be support victim and survivor in access support and seek justice . we be task the criminal justice joint inspectorate to carry out a target inspection of the experience of victim of child sexual abuse in the criminal justice system . we be instruct the Information Commissioner ' s Office to produce a code of practice on the retention of personal datum relate to child sexual abuse . in some case , where serious institutional failing contribute to the abuse , those institution have provide financial redress scheme or compensation to victim and survivor who be affect . we continue to support those scheme as recognition by those institution that they badly fail child in their care . on the IICSA proposal for a wide national redress scheme for all victim and survivor of child sexual abuse in institutional setting , the scale of that proposal demand that it be consider in the context of the spending review later this year , and we will make further update at that stage . one crucial area where we want to make immediate progress be the provision of therapeutic service for victim and survivor of child sexual abuse . we will therefore bring forward proposal in the come week to improve access to those service ; further detail will be set out follow the spending review . ahead of the spending review , I can announce that in this financial year the Home Office will double the funding it provide for national service , support adult survivor of child sexual abuse , and provide more help to those adult who be live with the trauma of the horrific abuse they suffer as child . finally , we want to speed up progress to make it easy for victim and survivor to get recompense directly from the institution that fail they . we be therefore remove the three - year limitation period on victim and survivor bring personal injury claim in the civil court , and shift the burden of proof from survivor to defendant , thereby protect victim from have to relive their trauma to get the compensation they be owe . today ' s update , build on the measure that the Home Secretary announce in January , demonstrate this Government ' s steadfast commitment to tackle child sexual abuse . the measure we be implement will protect more child , find more criminal , and deliver support and justice to more victim and survivor . but this be not the end point ; it be just the beginning . we will continue to drive forward reform to protect more child from abhorrent abuse , and support more adult survivor of those traumatic crime . as we pursue our safe street mission , we will use every available lever to drive progress on these issue , across Government and beyond . I want to finish with a word for the victim and survivor . no one should go through what they do . while the failing of the past can not be undo , we can , we must , and we will strain every sinew to prevent they from be repeat . I commend this statement to the House . I call shadow Minister Katie Lam . I thank the Minister for advance sight of her statement . in January , the Home Secretary say that the Government would conduct five local inquiry into the rape gang who have terrorise so many innocent child . More than three month since the Government announce those local inquiry , Tom Crowther KC , a barrister invite by the Home Office to help establish they , know almost nothing about their progress , and neither do we . why be the framework for local inquiry now be lead by Ministers , rather than by independent voice such as Tom Crowther ? why be the £ 5 million set aside for inquiry no long be allocate , but instead deliver on an " opt - in " basis ? what do the Government intend to do about local leader who say there be no need for an independent inquiry , as they do in Bradford and in Wales ? the girl we be talk about be predominantly white . the man who prey on they be predominantly muslim , generally either from Pakistan or of pakistani heritage . one of the victim from Dewsbury be tell by her rapist : " we ' re here to fuck all the white girl and fuck the Government . " do the Minister accept that in many case these crime be racially and religiously aggravate ? how , without a national inquiry , can we understand what part those factor play ? there be no question but that the state have fail these child time and again . take the case of " Anna " from Bradford . vulnerable and in residential care , at the age of 14 she make repeat report of rape and abuse to social worker who be responsible for she . just the follow year , age 15 , she " marry " her abuser in a traditional islamic wedding ceremony . far from step in to stop it , her social worker be a guest . the authority then arrange for she to be foster by her abuser ' s parent . the ringleader of the rochdale rape gang , Shabir Ahmed , be employ as a welfare right officer by Oldham council . yet not one person — not one — have be convict for cover up these institutionalise rape . why have Ministers refuse to establish a dedicated unit in the National Crime Agency to investigate councillor and official accuse of collusion and corruption ? I be sorry to say that that unit must also investigate police officer . in one case , the father of an abuse victim in Rotherham be arrest by South Yorkshire police when he attempt to rescue his daughter from her abuser . he be detain twice in one night , while on the very same evening , his daughter be repeatedly assault and abuse by a gang of man . it be clear that these criminal be unafraid of law enforcement . in Kirklees , Judge Marson say : " you be see with your victim on at least three occasion by the police … none of that deter you , and you continue to rape she . " how , without a national inquiry , can we know how and why these monster enjoy effective immunity for so long , and how can we be sure that it will not happen again ? conservative Members have vote for a national inquiry , and table amendment that would guarantee the publication of ethnicity datum on a quarterly basis , terminate the parental right of convict sex offender , and make membership of a grooming gang an aggravate factor during sentencing , so that offender get the long , harsh sentence that they deserve . will the Minister commit to accept those amendment to protect our child ? finally , I would like to read to the House one particular ordeal — just one example of what these child have suffer . I must warn colleague , and especially those in the Gallery , that this be extremely graphic , but we must not look away or sanitise this evil . Sentencing Mohammed Karrar of Oxford to life in prison , Judge Peter Rook say : " you prepare she " — that be his victim , a 13 - year - old girl — " for gang anal rape by use a pump to expand her anal passage . you subject she to gang rape by five or six man . at one point she have four man inside she . a red ball be place in her mouth to keep she quiet … when she be 12 , after rape she , she threaten you with your lock knife . your reaction be to pick up a baseball bat with a silver metal handle , strike she on the head with it , and then insert the baseball bat inside her vagina . " this be not about I , the Minister , the Home Secretary or any hon . member in the Chamber ; it be about the little girl , up and down our country , whose brutal and repeat rape be permit and hide by those in the british state whose job be to protect they . they deserve justice . in five town , those child and their family may get partial answer , but I have mention five town in the past few minute alone , and there be at least 45 more . in those place , child and their family will get no answer at all , so what do the Minister have to say to they ? the british people deserve to know the truth . what dark truth do the suffering of those girl reveal about this country — and why will the Government not find out ? I thank the hon . Lady ; I think it be a shame that she refer to only one sort of child abuse victim , when the statement be clearly about all child abuse victim . there should be no hierarchy ; we be also talk about child rape by their father or rape in other circumstance , such as in child ' s home and institution , over many year . it be a shame that she do not speak about any of their experience , notwithstanding the very graphic and upsetting story that she do tell . obviously , I have work for many year with the exact girl that the hon . Lady talk about . much of what she already know be because of the inquiry that have already occur , such as in Rotherham and in Rochdale . she do not refer at all to the two - year inquiry that be part of the IICSA panel . that be a statutory inquiry that look into lot of area , and I wonder if she maybe want to reacquaint herself with the 200 page of that report . I understand the hon . Lady ' s sense of anger and urgency about the issue . none of this be her fault — she be not here at the time — but she work with the then Minister , who sit in office where I now sit and do not lift a single finger on any of the recommendation contain in the Jay inquiry . the shadow Home Secretary , the right hon . member for Croydon South ( Chris Philp ) , spend almost two year as Minister for Crime , Policing and Fire . during his time in that role , he hold 352 external meeting , include 23 separate meeting on the policing of protest , but not once do he hold a discussion on groom gang or what the police be do to investigate they . he do not have one meeting with the police , victim , local authority or Alexis Jay , who have some choice word to say about some of the special adviser — I do not know if the hon . Lady know who they be — in the Department when Alexis Jay be try to get her requirement across the line . today , the Government have publish a detailed and systematic action plan for the future . it be not about headline ; it be about the frontline . it be about how these thing be go to take time in lot and lot of area of our country . this do not happen overnight because somebody win a political argument . it be go to take work , and I very much welcome the hon . Lady join I , unlike in the year when I be the Opposition spokesperson , when the current shadow Home Secretary never bother to involve I . I welcome today ' s action plan . I particularly welcome the creation of a new child protection authority and the doubling of funding for group who be help survivor and victim of child abuse , up and down the country . the independent inquiry into grooming gang in Rochdale , commission by Greater Manchester ' s Mayor , Andy Burnham , be detailed and thorough , and find serious failing by the statutory authority . the priority for my constituent be to ensure that we be protect woman and girl in the here and now , as well as convict perpetrator of past crime . few people know that there be no specific criminal offence of grooming , so may I thoroughly welcome the Government ' s decision to make groom an aggravating offence in child sex abuse , with long sentence ? that be long overdue , as it be recommend in Alexis Jay ' s inquiry , but ignore by the previous Government . I have enjoy work with my hon . friend , and other people in Rochdale , over the year on these issue . I hope that place like Rochdale , where there have already be independent inquiry , will be able to access some of the flexible fund to do victim - lead follow - up work on where we be now . I look forward to work with my hon . friend in the future and yes , I too be pleased that grooming will be an aggravating factor . it be a recommendation from Jay — in fact , it be recommend even before the final iicsa recommendation . I call the spokesperson for the Liberal Democrat party . I thank the Minister for advance sight of the statement and for the progress update to Parliament , as promise . we welcome the progress that be be make by the Government on this issue , which tragically continue to blight our society . as the Minister say , child across this country be still victim of these abhorrent crime , and survivor await justice from previous abuse and exploitation the Liberal Democrats believe , as member from across the House would echo , that no child should ever be subject to sexual abuse or exploitation , and it be clear that real action be need to prevent such sickening act from occur . we have make it clear that step must be take at all level of Government to well protect child from sexual abuse and exploitation in the future , and to fully deliver justice for survivor and victim . in particular , we welcome the Government ' s announcement of a new child protection authority and extra funding for national service that support adult survivor of sexual abuse . in fact , my hon . friend the Member for Twickenham ( Munira Wilson ) table an amendment to the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill to establish a child protection authority , and I know she be delighted to see that come forward today . the Lib Dems be commit to work proactively and constructively with the Government and the whole House to support and protect vulnerable child at risk of exploitation and abuse , unlike the Conservatives , sadly , who be still shamefully use the victim of groom gang scandal as a political football — [ interruption . ] the Liberal Democrats continue to commend the work of the independent inquiry into child sexual abuse by Professor Alexis Jay . we continue to call on the Government to urgently implement all 20 of her recommendation that , as the Minister have mention , the Conservatives fail to act on in government . the Minister have speak about some of the recommendation today , namely national leadership , learn on child protection and safeguarding , and a mandatory duty to report , but can she commit today to implement all the report ' s recommendation ? in so do , can she confirm that the new child protection authority will act as a national oversight mechanism to monitor the implementation of the Jay review ' s recommendation across all relevant agency and Departments ? if not , will such a mechanism be bring forward ? the Lib Dems support anything that will deliver justice for victim and help to prevent these sicken crime from happen in future . I thank the hon . Lady for her comment and the hon . member for Twickenham ( Munira Wilson ) for her work in this area . I be always keen to encourage cross - party work on these issue , and I recognise that the child protection agency have be push for previously . a consultation will be launch on exactly what the oversight mechanism of the cpa will look like . it will initially be part of the national panel , and that will then be build on . the consultation will take time rather than up - end an entire system — that will be the process that we will go through — and I would very much welcome help from member across the House in that process . on the implementation of all the recommendation in the Jay review , a detailed plan have be publish today as part of this announcement . I invite hon . member to look at that and to push for more , as I would do if I be not in my current ministerial position . when Alexis Jay appear before the Home Affairs Committee early this year , she be clear that at no point in seven year , under seven Conservative Home Secretaries , do anyone say that her inquiry be either too broad or too narrow , and nobody suggest to she that there need to be further inquiry beyond what she produce . I welcome the Minister ' s announcement that the three - year limitation period will be lift , because we know that the average length of abuse for child be four year , and the average length of time that it take someone to disclose their abuse be 26 year . will the Minister set out how the child protection authority will work in practice ? what will the funding situation be and what discussion have the Minister have with the Treasury ? what be the timing to get it up and run as soon as possible , and may I ask for a guarantee that the voice of survivor will be central in the establishment of the authority ? I agree with my hon . friend that the voice of survivor have to be part of absolutely everything that we do go forward . the cpa will immediately form part of the panel and extra funding will be provide in this year ' s fund to build on the analytical resource that it need . the consultation will be ongoing with expert , include the like of Alexis Jay , who have be very involved in the conversation — finally ; unfortunately , she have previously be leave out in the cold — and we will look at what the good model will be , along with survivor and expert in the field . I have to say that I be completely infuriate by today ' s statement . here we be , on the very last sit day before the Easter recess , and the Government have all but admit that no real progress whatsoever have be make on their promise to launch five local rape gang inquiry before Easter . it get bad : for more than five year , leader at the very top of Bradford council in my constituency have deny , refuse and cover up , every single time I and victim , survivor and their family have call for a full rape gang inquiry across Keighley and the wide Bradford district . yet the Minister and this Government refuse to face the fact . Bradford ' s leadership simply will not act by itself , so why be this Government let the very council that fail victim decide whether they want to be investigate ? when will this Government step up , use their statutory power and give the victim and survivor in area such as Keighley and the wide Bradford district the full inquiry that they have want for almost two decade ? first and foremost , I pay the hon . gentleman absolute credit . for year , he have speak up about this issue — I be actually surprised that we have not have close conversation . I would very much welcome some time with he to understand exactly what be go on in his local area — I think that be actually be arrange , from the letter he have send to I . I be more than happy to sit down with he . absolutely nothing that I have say today suggest that Bradford would not be able to access funding from the Home Office , just as Oldham have , to undertake the work that might be need there . I would very much welcome a conversation with he about that . I welcome the Minister ' s statement and the progress that she be make . I thank she for her very long and deep commitment to this issue and to see justice for victim . I will ask she about the version of mandatory reporting that she propose to introduce . my understanding be that the mandatory reporting duty will apply in situation where a person have witness abuse or receive a disclosure of abuse , which seem to be quite a high bar . there be many example of abuse take place in school and in child ' s home , for example , in which it emerge later that suspicion of abuse be very widespread , but nobody witness the abuse , receive a disclosure of it or report their suspicion , allow the abuse to continue . be my hon . friend confident that the version of mandatory reporting that she be introduce be at the right threshold ? will she commit to review the impact of the new measure once it have take effect and to strengthen it in future if need ? I praise my hon . friend for her commitment to these issue over the year . she be right : the threshold for mandatory reporting be a finely balanced tool . we have to land on the criminal justice outcome for the most egregious case , as other member have mention , where it seem that social worker be directly cover up and where there be professional sanction when people just fail to report . she talk about the issue of sign . I very much hope that that will be deal with in the training and the roll - out of this measure , but when any new law come into place and we roll out training , we will absolutely review it as we go along . I welcome the mandatory reporting progress . it be worth acknowledge the Bill that I lead through the House , which have now pay out £ 100 million in Northern Ireland to survivor of institutional sexual abuse . during the progress of that Bill and the discussion I have , the mealy - mouthed apology from institution be abhorrent . may I urge the Minister to push very hard on church institution and other institution to ensure that they pay and they apologise ? absolutely . some of the change that the right hon . Gentleman will read about in the document that will be publish subsequently concern that exact issue of an apology , and the limitation of mealy - mouthed apology . what that mean to the victim be so awful , so I will absolutely commit to push the institution to do exactly what they need to do to make honest apology . I have to say that , in recent week and month , we have not always have the good example of that on display . the victim of child sexual abuse be badly let down by institution . we must recognise that this continue , and that it be the responsibility of we all to act , so I warmly welcome the commitment to introduce mandatory reporting . it have take too long to get to this place . will the Minister say a little more about the training that will be available to professional and volunteer , so that they can spot the sign and indicator ? will she say more about how we will ensure that local victim panel be resource adequately ? in answer to my hon . friend ' s first question , at the beginning of next month , we will publish exactly how local panel can be set up and the work that can happen in local authority area . alongside the mandatory duty legislation , there will be write guidance , and training will be provide . when we talk about people who work with child , we often think of teacher or social worker , but we be also talk about sport coach , people in the clergy , and lot of other people , so the guidance will have to be both quite widely draw and specific . I welcome the Minister ' s statement . I share her disappointment that the Conservatives have seek to pick out one particular community . day after day in this Chamber , they vilify Muslims . as somebody who have muslim family and brown skin , I say that we feel increasingly uncomfortable in our own country , give the attack that we hear , day after day , from the Conservatives on all Muslims . it be an absolute disgrace . I welcome the child protection authority . on the fact that the Conservatives do not introduce it when they be in government and able to do so , Professor Jay tell I that they claim that they do not have legislative time . we all know that they do . I press the Minister to give I her personal assurance that she will work with her colleague in the Department for Science , Innovation and Technology to ensure that we strengthen our online safety regulation and do not water it down in any way , because Professor Jay be very clear that online sexual exploitation and abuse be huge and grow . I absolutely agree with the hon . Lady . even in the two and a half year since Alexis Jay publish her review , we have come to know even more about the harm occur online . the Online Safety Act 2023 finally come into force only last month , but the Government have make it clear that where there be a need to go far on various issue , such as on the recommendation make by Alexis Jay , we will absolutely look at that . as many have say , any time we look at child sexual abuse in this place and beyond , we must always put the victim first . I welcome the statement by the Safeguarding Minister , and the emphasis that she have place on support police investigation across the country to get justice for victim , and to ensure that those responsible be put behind bar . the grooming gang taskforce contribute to 550 arrest , and we have hear today that there be 597 arrest in the last month of 2024 . will she give we further detail on how the new measure will ensure that we can truly work collaboratively across Government , police force , the public sector and local authority to protect all child from sexual abuse , and to ensure that , as a Government , we do not allow the shameful failure of institution that protect themselves before they protect our child ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . really work in partnership , and not just say that we be , be important at the high level , here in these building and in Whitehall . we have set up an inter - ministerial group — I be a member of it , together with the Under - Secretary of State for Education , my hon . friend the Member for Lewisham East ( Janet Daby ) — to ensure that we be work together . the level of engagement from Ministers and Secretaries of State , work through the Cabinet Office , have make it a pleasure to produce these document . we have to make sure that this work be also happen locally . measure in the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill to improve multi - agency working , and the reform of social work , will be vital to our finally get a grip on this issue . I know that the Minister will join I in pay tribute to child sexual abuse specialist prosecutor , who deploy their considerable expertise to put together case that can be base on complex and — as we have hear — very distressing evidence . will the Minister make sure that a fair share of resource reach those prosecutor ? she will recognise that just as the public expect child sexual abuse to be detect , they also expect it to be effectively prosecute . the right hon . and learn Gentleman make a really good point . the legal process be a forget part of the system ; have work for many year with Nazir Afzal , for example , who be the prosecutor on the rochdale case , I can say that those prosecutor can really be forget . we have ask the joint inspectorate to look specifically into the justice system and what need to be do , but there be undoubtedly case wait in the long backlog because the prosecutor , defence and court space be not available . deal with that have to be part of a much big piece of work , but I will absolutely take away what the right hon . and learn Gentleman have say . I thank my hon . friend for her statement , and I pay tribute to she for her considerable expertise in this field . the victim - survivor of childhood sexual abuse have spend far too long wait for justice . as my hon . Friend say , childhood sexual abuse know no hierarchy ; it also know no border . we have different legislative system within this country , and we can not allow action to be take in one area only , with victim potentially be leave out . what discussion be my hon . friend have with the Scottish Government , so that we can take this work forward on a joint basis ? we have have discussion with our scottish counterpart on some of the legislation that we be currently pass , include the legislation on child sexual abuse online , artificial intelligence , and some of the danger that Alexis Jay rightly point out in the final recommendation of her report . we have those conversation ; obviously , issue of child protection be devolve to Scotland , but we can not do this work in isolation , especially because child be traffic across the border . I be always very happy to work with counterpart in the Scottish Government to drive progress — and , frankly , to learn from they sometimes . I share the anger and frustration express by my hon . friend the Member for Keighley and Ilkley ( Robbie Moore ) about the lack of progress on inquire into the rape gang , and I be incredibly disappoint by the Minister ' s failure to answer a single question put to she by the shadow Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Weald of Kent ( Katie Lam ) , include the refusal to acknowledge that these crime be racially and religiously aggravate . I will repeat just one of those question : in many of the rape gang case , councillor , council worker and police officer be complicit and often corrupt , so why be the Government refuse to set up a specialist unit in the National Crime Agency to investigate those who should have protect those innocent girl , but instead participate in and facilitate their abuse ? to answer the hon . Gentleman ' s question , if criminal case can be bring against any of those people , I be more than happy to speak to the taskforce that be work to improve the number of arrest — as I say , we have see an increase in arrest — and see where criminal case can be bring against they . I be more than happy to see those people lock up for as long as they deserve . however , we be leave for some decade without a mandatory reporting duty on the statute book , one that would enable we to take to task , through the criminal justice system , the people who cover this up . we will rectify that . I thank the Minister for her statement ; I do not think there be anyone who could lead more credibly on this issue . it be absolutely disgusting that the last Government have 89 week to implement the recommendation of the Jay inquiry but implement absolutely zero of they , yet Conservative Members come here today to grandstand on this issue . a decade ago , the Director of Public Prosecutions recommend mandatory reporting — he happen to be our Prime Minister now , of course — so it have take 10 year for this to happen . what have be lose in that time , and what can be gain in the come year ? unfortunately , what have be lose in that time be the ability to hold people to account . even if , in a statutory inquiry , information be find out , for example about councillor , that would not lead to their arrest — that be not what a statutory inquiry do . nobody be in prison as a result of any of the statutory inquiry we have have , so we want to focus our attention on criminalise those people . I be afraid to say that in the absence of mandatory reporting , we have see lot of people get away with cover - up in the intervene year . what I hope for the future be not that I see lot of people lock up who be bad , but that this change create a culture of openness and transparency in child protection service . that be what should be celebrate , not the reputation of the organisation . my blood be boil as I listen to the stuff come from Conservative Members . if they have read the independent inquiry into child sexual abuse , they would recognise that there be hundred of thousand of people alive today — people just like I , white girl — who suffer at the hand of white man who have get clean away with it , because nothing be do for so long . I welcome today ' s statement . I think it be absolutely brilliant , and I be very glad to hear that it be the start of a plan , not the finish . of course , this be not rocket science . I recognise the value of mandatory reporting and the importance of criminalise those who obstruct reporting by individual , but could we step that down a little bit , and say that those who coerce people into not report , or gently discourage they from do so , should also be criminalise ? as the Minister know , I have be work on an amendment to clause 45 of the Crime and Policing Bill that would cover religious institution and faith - base organisation . there should no long be a convention of absolute confidentiality for those who take confession in a religious setting ; there be a conflict and a tension there . we need to make sure in some way that it be make explicit that no one should be exclude from mandatory reporting . I thank the hon . Lady for her question . we now have many law on coercion in our country — pass law on coercion be something that the previous Government do do . if it can be evidence that anybody coerce somebody into not report , or gently try to cover something up , that would be see as criminal and consider to be a cover - up . obviously , this will all be test when such case come to pass . funnily enough , the Crime and Policing Bill Committee , which I be also mean to be on , may get up to clause 45 today — we will get back to that Committee immediately after this statement . I be more than happy to have conversation with the hon . Lady , but the Church , faith leader and faith group be absolutely within the purview of the measure . make sure that we do not create workaround for certain thing be in everybody ' s good interest . the shadow Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Weald of Kent ( Katie Lam ) , give very graphic and disturbing example of horrific abuse suffer by just a couple of the young lady affect by these grooming gang . she ask important question about the gang , and I be disappoint that instead of answer her question , the Minister talk about the number of meeting that her predecessor have have , and about the fact that many girl be abuse by people who be not in groom gang . of course that be true , but both be important . the Minister , in answer to an early question , invite another Member " to push for more , as I would do if I be not in my current ministerial position . " why be the inquiry limit to only five area ? what about those in the other area ? do she not recognise that give people a choice on whether their area be investigate or not be an incentive for those who wish to cover up either to not bid or to not bid well for those inquiry ? above all , who or what be prevent she from deliver the more that she would push for if she be sit here ? absolutely nobody be stop I from push for more , as I be sure all my ministerial colleague would tell the hon . Lady , have be in meeting with I . I think this be about the point of view of Parliament . Parliament be here to strength - test the thing we do , and I welcome that . to the point that the hon . member for Wells and Mendip Hills ( Tessa Munt ) make , this be just the beginning , not the end , as I say in my statement . the detail of how local area can bid into that scheme will , as I have say , be publish by the end of the month . I mention groom gang victim many , many time throughout my statement . I also mention other victim in the many other inquiry that have go on . I only wish that people be quite so well verse in some of the other area . my only criticism of the shadow Minister on the shadow Front Bench be that she only mention one ; I mention many . I know the Minister be passionate about this issue and I commend she for her effort . would she not agree that the sentencing for these most abhorrent crime need to truly reflect the seriousness of the offence ? I do not think anyone can sit in this House today and not be break or feel sick to the pit of their stomach when we hear account from the Front Benchers . anyone who take away the innocence of a child must serve the tough of sentence . after all , these child have be subject to a lifetime of trauma as a result of these horrific act . the hon . Lady make a good point , because for the victim I have work with over the year , it be a life sentence ; it be not something that go away . that be one of the reason I feel strongly about try to improve the level of therapeutic support for child and adult , and that have be a real priority for I . she be absolutely right on the sentencing . the Government be undertake a sentencing review in the broad sense , and we be put groom as an aggravating factor into sentencing and into the law . I be mean to be in two place at once , and in fact that clause be probably be discuss in Committee literally right now . I welcome the Government ' s statement and the progress they be make on implement recommendation from the Jay review , and I be deeply disappointed that the Conservatives have choose to respond to the statement in this way and refuse to acknowledge any progress that the Government be make after year of inaction on the Conservatives ' part . as the Minister know , before be elect to this House , I be the chief executive of Devon Rape Crisis and Sexual Abuse Services , an organisation that support victim of child sexual abuse . I know how vital these support service be to rebuild the life of those who have be shatter by abuse , help they to become adult who can live a more settled and fulfil life . that organisation be deal with a funding cut of around a third , and it have already have to close its helpline . I know that many other similar organisation across the country be face a similar cliff edge due to funding cut , as well as pressure from inflation and national insurance increase . I warmly welcome the Minister ' s announcement of a doubling in funding for adult survivor of child sexual abuse . what step be the Government take to ensure that child who have be victim of child sexual exploitation and grooming can receive timely access to appropriate victim support and trauma - inform service ? specifically on victim of groom , we will set out the commissioning for the new service across England and Wales for the independent child traffic guardian , as I say in my statement . child who access through the national referral mechanism as traffic victim — lot of british child who be groom access through that system — will be able to access support through that service . as be lay out in the document , improvement be need in child ' s sexual violence therapeutic support . anyone who have work on the frontline would know that , as would anyone who have try to make a referral through the generic service . it would be disingenuous of I to stand here before the comprehensive spending review and make a commitment — I be not sure the Chancellor would thank I — but one of the major recommendation of IICSA be about child ' s therapeutic support , which be very much at the front of my mind while we go through the comprehensive spending review . I thank the Minister for her answer and her commitment to bring justice for the victim . no one deny that the hon . Lady have a big heart and a real determination to get the answer we all wish to see . with sexual offence at an all - time high in Northern Ireland — I know that she have an interest in Northern Ireland — and with some 4 , 232 such incident record between April 2022 and March 2023 , which be an increase of some 4 . 7 % on the previous year , it be clear that the protection of child , our most vulnerable people , need to be a priority . what discussion will she have with the Northern Ireland Assembly to ensure that Northern Ireland have the support need to address these horrifying figure ? we have to understand that every incident report sit against those that be not . we be perhaps just not get to the real figure . I agree with the hon . Gentleman that although we have argument in this House about datum , what datum have not be collect and what progress we have make , the reality be that we will never know about the vast majority of datum , because we do not ever see it . that be something we should all strive to overcome . I visit Northern Ireland recently and go to the Police Service of Northern Ireland and work specifically with the team deal with online child sex abuse . we look at the process they be undertake through undercover action on that particular issue . that will continue , and not just because part of my heart be in Northern Ireland through my father . have work with the PSNI and meet those in the Executive , I know that there be real determination in Northern Ireland . that be perhaps because it be largely lead by woman — well do , Northern Ireland — but there be real appetite , and we will happily work with those people as much as we can . Horizon Redress and Post Office Update with your permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I wish to make a statement on the Post Office , Horizon redress and Post Office finance . we inherit a Post Office in crisis . it have a grim past , a poor commercial track record , unstable leadership and its record on compensation be widely perceive as legalistic , slow and adversarial . since this government come into office , the total amount of redress pay to victim of the Horizon scandal have increase by more than three and a half time . between July last year and 31 March this year , more than 3 , 300 victim have receive compensation for the first time . approximately £ 892 million have now be pay to more than 6 , 200 claimant . we have also establish a new compensation scheme , so that those postmaster who finally have their conviction overturn by Parliament last year get redress . we be work on our approach to redress for postmaster who fall victim to the flaw in the Capture system . unlike the previous Government , we set out a clear forecast for compensation within the autumn Budget of £ 1 . 8 billion from 2024 - 25 . as the House will know , the Government previously commit to provide the majority of group litigation order claimant with substantial redress by the end of March . I can confirm that , as promise , 76 % of those who submit claim for compensation have receive substantial redress . all those who submit a claim before Christmas have receive an offer or , in one case , a substantial interim payment instead . we will also take further step to increase the pace at which claimant ' challenge can be resolve fairly . facilitated discussion will be reintroduce to the GLO scheme for this purpose . most recently , we announce that from 3 June my Department will take over responsibility for the overturn conviction scheme from the Post Office . we have also welcome Fujitsu ' s commitment to contribute to the Government ' s compensation for the victim of the scandal . during a meeting between the Secretary of State and Fujitsu ' s chief executive officer in March , an agreement be reach on begin talk ahead of the conclusion of Sir Wyn Williams ' inquiry . the House will be aware that the Secretary of State announce the Government ' s intention to establish an appeal mechanism for claimant who be unhappy with offer that they have receive under the Post Office ' s Horizon shortfall scheme . today we be publish the guidance and principle for the HSS appeal , and by the end of this month we will begin to accept application from eligible postmaster who be currently involve in the Post Office ' s dispute resolution process . the document set out the underlie rule that will govern the assessment of appeal , and also provide information on , for instance , the eligibility criterion to help postmaster and their legal representative make their claim . we develop this in consultation with the Horizon compensation advisory board , claimant ' lawyer , and representative of postmaster ' organisation . later this month we will begin write to the legal representative of potentially eligible postmaster who be currently involve in the dispute resolution process , invite they to transfer their claim to the new HSS appeal scheme . if postmaster do not have legal representative , we will write to they directly . shortly after that , we will open the scheme to all other eligible postmaster . as with the GLO scheme , my Department will aim to respond within 40 work day of the submission of a substantially complete appeal in at least 90 % of case . we will encourage postmaster enter the process to engage legal adviser , and we will meet their reasonable legal cost through a tariff that we have agree with claimant ' lawyer . postmaster will not have to pay a penny of income tax , capital gain tax , national insurance contribution , corporation tax or inheritance tax on any compensation that they receive through the new process . as we look to the future , we will also continue to address any concern about the Post Office ' s past behaviour . I be therefore pleased to be able to provide an update on the Government - fund Post Office process review scheme , which will provide redress for postmaster who lose out financially owe to issue connect with Post Office product , policy or process . those issue be unrelated to Horizon but be part of the company ' s effort to rebuild trust with its postmaster and ensure that past failing be fully address . the scheme be due to be launch in the next month , and the Post Office will write to all of those potentially affect with further detail , include information on how postmaster can apply . we will consider carefully the condition and recommendation of Sir Wyn Williams ' inquiry when it be publish . while tackle the awful legacy of the Horizon scandal , the Government be also determined to make the Post Office more sustainable for the future , and we remain committed to publish a Green Paper to consider its long - term future . in particular , I look forward to hear the vision and idea of stakeholder , include key trade union , sub - postmaster and other . it have be apparent for some time that the Post Office be heavily reliant on Government funding . its chair ' s transformation plan be announce in November , with the aim of put the company on a path towards financial stability and deliver a " new deal for postmaster " . the plan require the company to make difficult decision about , for example , the need to look seriously at efficiency in its headquarters and the branch network to ensure that it be fit for purpose . today the Post Office have announce that it would be move to a fully franchise network as part of those plan . that will realise significant saving , potentially amount to £ 100 million over the duration of the current Parliament . before this announcement , many member write to I express concern about their local directly manage branch , and we have hear those concern . the Post Office will therefore ensure that each directly manage branch will be franchise , either on site or in a location nearby , so that service provision will remain in place in community . make those change will ensure that the company be more sustainable . to support Post Office provision in every community across the UK , the Government plan to provide up to £ 83 million of subsidy next year . that be up from the £ 50 million provide under the last government , and be in addition to the uplift that we provide in the last financial year . the Post Office need to transform the outdated technology on which it depend , and we therefore plan to provide up to £ 136 million of funding for its new future technology portfolio in the 2025 - 26 financial year . over the next five year this work will address technology need across the business , which will include replace Horizon , reduce central cost and ensure that postmaster have the tool they need to serve their customer . to enable the Post Office to continue to administer redress payment to postmaster and respond to the Post Office Horizon IT inquiry , the Government will provide up to £ 57 . 9 million of funding . these funding stream be subject to the Subsidy Control Act 2022 and referral to the Competition and Markets Authority . an announcement on banking framework 4 have not yet be make , but I be hopeful that there will be a positive announcement soon , as post office continue to provide vital banking service in every community up and down the country . together , these step will help to pave the way towards a more sustainable future for the Post Office . during my engagement with the National Federation of SubPostmasters , concern have be raise that the Post Office may have act improperly in the course of the network transformation programme during the 2010 . there be claim that the Post Office and its representative put undue pressure on postmaster , and may have give unregulated financial advice to encourage they to move on to contract that be ultimately not in their good interest . those allegation must be take seriously . I be therefore commission an independent review of the conduct of the programme to establish whether there be any improper or coercive behaviour , and I will update the House on the scope and timing of the review in due course . it remain our priority to speed up the delivery of fair compensation to all the victim of the Horizon scandal , and to secure and strengthen the Post Office for the future . there be more to do , but I commend this statement to the House . I thank the Minister for his statement , and for advance sight of it . I also thank the campaigner on this issue , with whom I work for more than five year — both as a Back Bencher and as a Front Bencher — and , indeed , I thank Lord Beamish and Lord Arbuthnot for their work on the Horizon compensation advisory board , which we establish on a cross - party basis during our tenure . I agree with the Minister that , although good progress have be make , there be much more to do . it be good that £ 892 million have be pay to 6 , 200 sub - postmaster , a tenfold increase on what we see only a couple of year ago . it be clear that most of that have go out of the door because of what this Parliament do last June , when it overturn the conviction by statute , and because of the introduction of fix - sum award , which have revolutionise the ability to pay compensation quickly . I be proud to say that we do all that in the House on a cross - party basis , and it be the right thing to do . I work with the then shadow Secretary of State for Business and Trade and with this Minister and other in their former role , and our work be strongly support by the then Prime Minister , my right hon . friend the Member for Richmond and Northallerton ( Rishi Sunak ) , the then Business Secretary , who be now Leader of the Opposition , and the then Chancellor and his Ministers . I be therefore a little disappointed that the Minister have seek to suggest that he take over a crisis . we have make much progress on this matter on a cross - party basis , and my remark today will continue to be make on that basis , but for all the progress the Minister talk about in his statement , I do not hear about a single aspect of the Horizon programme that be not already in train under the last government , in conjunction with the then opposition . the Minister mention a three and a half - fold increase in July , which I welcome , but as he will no doubt concede , it happen as a result of the overturning of the conviction by Parliament and the introduction of the compensation scheme . the redress scheme , for example , be set in train by the last Government with the co - operation of the then opposition , as be the investigation of Capture . the Minister say that the compensation be not budget for , but that be not right . last year ' s Budget simply say that the money have be reallocate from departmental expenditure to annual manage expenditure . he imply that the money be not there to pay out to postmaster , when the work have be do on a cross - party basis . it be absolutely wrong to give that impression to people out there who be still wait for redress . the HSS appeal system be something that we advocate for and put in place , as be the fix - sum award for overturn conviction and the Horizon shortfall scheme . the Minister talk about the unstable leadership of the Post Office . we think it be right to put a new chair in place , and we have every confidence that Nigel Railton , whom we put in place , will do a fantastic job . we support his transformation plan and the move to a fully franchise network , which we think be the right thing to do . I will ask the Minister some question , if I may . it be not clear what he will do about victim of the Capture programme , even though it have be acknowledge that the Post Office be at fault in some of those case . will he bring forward legislation to overturn their conviction by statute ? I know the advisory board believe that that be the right way forward . on compensation , when I be in the Minister ' s role , I say that a name individual should oversee the compensation scheme , and the Business and Trade Committee have advocate for that . there should be one individual to oversee all the scheme , who will put their reputation on the line for deliver compensation . although the fix - sum award be work , the full assessment route still have problem . something that the Minister do not mention in his statement , but which we look at , be a pilot of a more tariff - base scheme , whereby people who have suffer from mental health difficulty could be pay more rapidly , rather than go down a full assessment route . the Minister mention the timescale . currently , there be a time parameter of 40 day for a response from the Department to a new claim , but the clock be reset when the claimant say that the claim be at the wrong level . will he look at that ? what progress have the Minister make on an interim payment from Fujitsu ? what progress have be make on establish what Ernst and Young should have do in 2011 - 12 , when it be aware of the huge liability that the Post Office have on its book due to this particular problem ? will he be ambitious on the banking framework to make sure that postmaster get a good deal , and what progress have the chair make on his commitment to reduce the highest - pay role in the Post Office ' s central management tier to make sure that more of the revenue that flow into the Post Office flow out to postmaster ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his comment , and I join he in commend the work of all those who have campaign , and who continue to campaign , for the victim of this horrendous scandal . I pay tribute to the noble Lords Arbuthnot and Beamish . in a spirit of cross - partisanship , I pay tribute to the hon . gentleman for his work in the past . I know that he work extremely hard to try to move thing forward , and I very much respect the job that he do . let I attempt to do justice to the detailed question that the hon . Gentleman ask . on Capture , we be actively work on a redress scheme . we have have a series of meeting with some of the sub - postmaster who be affect by the problem in the Capture software and their legal representative . he will be aware that a number of case with the Criminal Cases Review Commission relate to Capture , and we think it be appropriate that the ccrc be allow to continue to review those case . as I outline in my opening remark , the Secretary of State recently meet the global chief executive of Fujitsu during his visit to Japan . I have meet the chief executive of Fujitsu in the UK , and I say to he that an interim payment would be a significant step in the right direction . the hon . Gentleman ask I about the Post Office ' s accountant . he may be aware that the Financial Reporting Council be look at this issue and have be talk to the Horizon compensation advisory board . it be an independent body , and I be sure that he and the House will recognise that it be right that we respect the right of that independent body to do its work . the hon . Gentleman say , quite rightly , that the full assessment of claim occasionally have problem . that be one of the reason why I refer to the fact that we be bring back facilitated discussion , particularly on the GLO scheme . although there have be significant progress in settle two third of the GLO claim that have be put in , we think that those facilitate discussion will help to make it easy for fair compensation to be allocate in a timely way to those victim of the scandal . where a case for interim payment be make to we , we always encourage our team to make such payment in order to try to ease the financial pressure , and therefore the trauma , that victim still experience . the hon . Gentleman will know that there be concern in the past about the letter request further information . I have see some previous example of those request , and I can well understand the frustration of sub - postmaster , their lawyer and campaigner . when we request further information , it be to make sure that we can offer an increase payment to sub - postmaster go forward . however , I recognise that there will be some scepticism because of the history around request for information . we will continue to do everything we can to get payment out to people as quickly as possible , and we have take further step to work with the Post Office to identify victim who have not previously come forward . some 6 , 000 new claimant have now come forward , and we be try to process their case as quickly as we can . I welcome my hon . friend ' s statement , particularly the reference to the discussion with Fujitsu . the Horizon software be still be use by the post office network , and I understand that the contract with Fujitsu be worth about £ 2 . 4 billion over its lifetime . we should not lose sight of the fact that Fujitsu be heavily involve in support the Post Office ' s prosecution of innocent sub - postmaster . can my hon . friend say exactly how he will ensure that Fujitsu pay the appropriate amount of money to compensate for its role in this affair ? I recognise the concern across the House . my hon . friend have follow this issue for a long time , and I recognise his continue interest . he will forgive I if I do not give a running commentary to the House on the negotiation that we will have with Fujitsu . we be obviously wait for the conclusion of Sir Wyn Williams ' inquiry and his judgment about the level of responsibility that Fujitsu must accept . as I allude to in my answer to the Opposition spokesman , an interim payment by Fujitsu would be a significant step forward . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . we Liberal Democrats welcome the progress that the Government have make , but the redress payment process be still too slow . first , victim claim under the Horizon shortfall scheme continue to face significant up - front complexity without legal advice . I welcome the Minister ' s announcement that the Government will be write to that group , but could he please outline a time by which they will receive those letter ? secondly , the Minister announce that any compensation will not be subject to a penny of income tax , capital gain tax , inheritance tax or other taxis . could he confirm whether that will require primary legislation ? if so , will it be limit to this scandal or apply to other scandal as well ? I be think in particular of the cross - party campaign on Philomena ' s law because some victim of that scandal be struggle to access their compensation . thirdly , this scandal have involve many individual work at the Post Office , Fujitsu and other . the Government have commit to bring forward a statutory duty of candour ; they initially say they would do so by 15 April , which be the 36th anniversary of the Hillsborough disaster . at business question last week , the Leader of the House cast doubt on whether that deadline would be meet , because the Government say they will take whatever time be necessary to get the issue right . we Liberal Democrats want the drafting to be do correctly , but be there any update on when we can expect the statutory duty to be bring forward ? fourthly , the evidence of whistleblower at Fujitsu be crucial in expose the lie about Horizon . we Liberal Democrats have repeatedly call for an office of the whistleblower , and we have put down amendment to the Employment Rights Bill to strengthen protection for whistleblower . would the Government work with we on that issue ? finally , I be surprised to see the announcement about directly manage post office . the Minister will be aware that a cross - party group of Members have be infuriate by the poor communication from Post Office boss on this process . I recognise that today ' s announcement state that the Post Office will move to a fully franchised network , but that still provide no guarantee about the range or quality of service that will be available , no guarantee on the definition of " nearby " , no guarantee that there will not be a break in service and no guarantee that those post office will not eventually be close if the franchise do not work . will the Minister please set out the next stage ? those will affect my constituent in St Albans and many constituent represent by member here . I be grateful to the hon . Lady . she be absolutely right to reflect the view of the whole House that there be still much more to do on compensation . we as the Government be very clear about that ourselves , and we be work at pace to try to step up even far the rate at which compensation payment be make . we think that , in just the first nine month of this Government , we have make significant progress , increase by three and a half time the amount of compensation that have be pay out . but I completely accept that there be more to do . we think that the launch of the Horizon shortfall scheme appeal process will help to address a number of case in the HSS where sub - postmaster be concerned about the offer they have have . the hon . Lady ask I when letter would be go out . I set out the broad timescale in my statement , and I simply say to she again — shortly . we want to get this up and run as quickly as we can . the hon . Lady ask I whether new legislation would be require to implement the commitment on tax that I set out . no , it will not be require . on the issue of the duty of candour , I do not have anything to add to what my right hon . friend the Leader of the House say . however , the hon . Lady ' s question be an opportunity to underline that we expect a number of significant issue to arise from Sir Wyn Williams ' s inquiry , and we as the Government — and , I be sure , the whole House — will want to reflect on the conclusion and recommendation that he come up with . the hon . Lady mention the issue about the decision to franchise the remain directly manage branch . as I set out in my statement , I have hear the concern from across the House — they be particularly significant on the Labour Benches , but I recognise those from the opposition side as well — about the impact of lose post office service in the community where those directly manage party be . that be why we have make it clear to the Post Office that franchise post office service have to remain in those community . we expect the Post Office to work from the starting point of those service be what be call a main franchise — a franchise that , as well as provide the more traditional post office service such as stamp and parcel , will also provide Government service such as passport and drive licence : the equivalent of what be available in those branch at the moment . I expect that , in the first instance , those franchise service will continue to operate in exactly the same place where they do at the moment , before decision be take about where they should be locate in the slightly long term . the hon . Lady ask I what guarantee there be that service will continue to be provide in that space . she will know that access criterion have already be publish that commit the Government to provide 11 , 500 post office . the decision on directly manage branch do not change those criterion , and the Post Office be commit to continue to provide a service in those community . I would also expect the Post Office to talk to local stakeholder , include member of this House , about the continued operation of post office service in their community . Salford precinct ' s busy Crown post office be a vital lifeline for resident and business alike , especially for those who collect their pension and benefit in person . put simply , close it in favour of a franchise would cause local economic and social devastation , especially if service be reduce and staff be let go . it would also put that service at the whim of the franchisee , which , as we know from the recent case of WH Smith , cause great uncertainty and insecurity . what be the Minister do to guarantee that Salford retain all its exist post office service and staff in this geographical location , and what alternative have he consider or will he consider in favour of shelving franchising ? I know that my hon . friend have always be a great champion of Salford . like other member , she have make it very clear to I how significant the post office be in her community . the vast majority of post office branch across the country be already franchise . both main and local franchise be often open long than directly manage branch . my hon . Friend ask what guarantee there be . as I have set out , we have make it clear to the Post Office that we want every directly manage branch to ensure that there be a main franchised operation in those community . I recognise that there will be concern while that change take place , but if she or any other member have concern about aspect of that transition as it move forward in their constituency , I will obviously be very happy to meet they to discuss those . as a member of the Business and Trade Committee , I should remind the House that in March we recommend that the Government should listen hard to our recommendation . I be glad that that seem to have be take on board , but I be slightly concerned that a lot of back patting seem to be go on , particularly about Fujitsu . do the Minister not agree with I that he should be tell Fujitsu what to do , not ask it ? this Government seem overly deferential to lawyer . he be in charge of this . can he not get the pace move , because lawyer be get their money — their fee — but postmaster be not get their money at the rate they should ? the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right to want progress on Fujitsu , which be one of the reason why I have make it clear to Fujitsu that an interim payment would be a very welcome and significant step forward . we have say that we think it be important that we hear the view of Sir Wyn Williams , who have be look in detail at the responsibility of both Fujitsu and senior leader in the Post Office during this scandal . we need to recognise that there be a process , but we be absolutely clear about our responsibility to move the negotiation forward . I thank the Minister for his statement and for all the work he be do to redress the injustice of the Horizon scandal . can he confirm that the Communication Workers Union , as well as the National Federation of SubPostmasters , have be involve in decision making ? I have lobby he very hard about my post office in Cricklewood , so he will know that we want to and must maintain those service go forward . I think a lot of the problem stem from the separation of the Royal Mail and the Post Office follow privatisation , so would he consider discuss the possibility of a joint venture again ? I know from the conversation I have have with my hon . friend just how much she and her constituent value the post office in Cricklewood . as I have set out , our starting point be that a main franchise offer the same service as currently enjoy by the resident of Cricklewood will be provide . I hope her constituent will not see any significant disruption go forward , but I be very happy to have a conversation with she about that . I have have many conversation since come into this role with the leadership of the Communication Workers Union , who have be very direct in their view about directly manage branch . on the question of their have a view and a say in the future of the Post Office , as I have make clear we be determined to publish a Green Paper , which will allow all those who be interested , include the CWU , to give we their vision of the future of the Post Office and view about the various question about its future . do the Minister acknowledge that among the horrific impact of the Horizon scandal be the massive brand damage to Post Office Ltd and its management among not only the sub - postmaster who be currently employ , but the potential workforce of the future ? our community in the lake in Hawkshead , Staveley and Grasmere be currently without an operate post office and have lose those service . will the Minister give attention to and push Post Office Ltd to provide a package that not just encourage people to remain within the Post Office , but attract new people , acknowledge that it will take more effort than normal to attract people into the sector ? on the issue of franchise service , our post office in Kendal share space with the Royal Mail , and any change of site for our post office could threaten both . be he cognisant of that , and will he do something about it ? the hon . Gentleman rightly underline the significance of the Post Office , in particular in rural community , and the challenge on occasion of find sub - postmaster to run franchise post office in those area . I hope the uplift in postmaster remuneration that come just before Christmas will help to address that particular challenge . we have make clear to the Post Office leadership that a fundamental change in its culture be need to place sub - postmaster at the heart of the operation go forward , which they accept . they have therefore set up a consultative council to ensure that sub - postmaster have direct input into the future direction of the Post Office . they be also do more , through a postmaster panel , to bring in postmaster to understand the different process use and to rebuild confidence in how Post Office management handle some of the big challenge that the company face . I will happily consider any request or point of concern that the hon . Gentleman raise about Kendal . if he be not satisfied with progress in address those point , he be very welcome to get in contact with I far down the line . I be very proud of the local campaign I have be involve in alongside councillor and resident to save Chester - le - Street post office . although it be disappointing that we be lose the post office in its current form , I be relieved that the service have be save . I recognise that the market for traditional post office service have be in decline for some year . do the Minister share my disappointment that Post Office management do not have the commercial imagination to find new business stream utilise their brand and network of prominent high street location ? I commend my hon . friend for his campaign . I recognise just how much the Chester - le - Street post office be value by his constituent , as he have make clear to I a number of time in his representation . on the commercial future of the Post Office , it be absolutely true that postal service in this country — as indeed in a number of other country — be face significant pressure , and it be therefore imperative that Post Office management here in the UK look at what they can do to capitalise on new opportunity , particularly in term of banking . the Post Office chairman and chief executive , Nigel Railton and Neil Brocklehurst , completely get this point , and we be actively talk to they about what more we can do . I very much hope we will hear positive news on banking framework 4 , which I hope will be a significant step forward in this regard . however , there be more that can be do in this space . third - party litigation funding play a key and controversial role at the start of this crisis . follow recent Supreme Court judgment , that access to justice that postmaster have at the start be under threat . what discussion be the Minister have with his colleague about how third - party litigation funding work in this situation and what need to improve as it move forward ? the right hon . Gentleman will have to forgive I ; I have be very focused on the effort to increase compensation for the victim of the Horizon scandal , which have be the immediate challenge face the Government in this policy area . it be something we hear loud and clear in opposition and we want to see progress on it . as I allude to early , I suspect that the recommendation in Sir Wyn Williams ' inquiry will range quite widely , and if it touch on the particular issue that the right hon . Gentleman have raise , we will look at that extremely carefully . more generally , I suspect that my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Justice will be interested in his question . I thank the Minister for his statement and for the update on the redress scheme for victim of the Horizon scandal . I also thank he for listen to my campaign to save the Kings Square post office in Gloucester and for maintain so many vital service for Gloucester resident with today ' s announcement that they will be franchise and continue . will he meet I to discuss the merit of the new franchise stay in its current location ? king Square have a fantastic future , with the opening of the university ' s new City campus later this year and the Forum , a new office , hotel and leisure facility , which will be fantastic . it would be great for the new franchise to be an important part of that future . I be grateful to my hon . friend for his continued representation of his constituent ' interest . he have make a number of very clear representation to I on the importance of the Gloucester post office , and I would be very happy to meet he to discuss its future as it transition to a franchise - run operation . I should make it clear that the Post Office very much want these franchise to be in key location that be important for our community , because that be obviously where the commercial income will come from , so it will be keen to meet with stakeholder such as member of this House and other local stakeholder . if my hon . friend would like to meet I to discuss this issue far , I would be very happy to do so . where a post office branch that be currently directly manage be not stay in its current premise , will there be a proper formal scheme of community engagement to give the community some control over ensure that what be provide in its place will be at least as good ? community simply do not trust the Post Office at the moment to make that judgment for itself . the right hon . Gentleman make a completely fair point that the Post Office suffer from a significant lack of trust , for all the reason we know . I completely understand why he would want to press the particular point that his community should be involve in discussion about their post office service go forward . as I allude to early , I would expect the Post Office to engage with local stakeholder , include the right hon . Gentleman as the local Member of Parliament . if at any point he be concerned about those discussion , he be very welcome to get in contact with I , and I will happily meet he . my constituent be serve by Crown post office in Brixton and East Dulwich , both just outside my constituency boundary and both in area that have see the near complete withdrawal of high street bank branch , leave resident and business dependent on the post office for banking service , as well as for the wide range of other service that they provide . the Minister know that the big difference between Crown and franchise post office be that no one in the public sector have any say in the public interest over whether a franchised post office remain open , or indeed whether a franchisee can be secure . what assurance can my hon . friend give that post office franchise open in place of Crown post office will remain open for the long term ? I recognise the significance that the two post office have to my hon . friend ' s constituent , and I recognise , too , that there will be concern in her constituency about the long - term future of those post office . although she be not the constituency Member of Parliament for the area , I will ensure that she be consult about the future of those post office . I recognise that , particularly in urban area such as the one that she and I represent , people outside the immediate constituency be reliant on those post office . as I have say , a post office will want to ensure that , in the long term , it be locate at the heart of the commercial activity in a community , because its future income depend on that . however , give what have be say about the lack of trust in the Post Office , it be important that there be conversation with local stakeholder , include member of this House . moreover , give the point that she have make , I will make sure she be include in conversation about those two particular post office . More than 4 , 000 resident have sign my cross - party petition oppose the closure of the Bexhill Crown branch . it be fair to say that this whole situation have be make bad , because the Minister have allow the Post Office to put the cart before the horse , with the decision take on closure ahead of a clear guarantee on what will come next for all of our constituent . I notice that in his answer , the Minister have talk about " should " , " expectation " and " starting point " , but those be not cast - iron guarantee . can he give a cast - iron guarantee that he will veto any replacement of the Crown service in Bexhill if it do not provide exactly the same service as the current branch be provide ? I recognise from the meeting that I have with the hon . member and also with a Bexhill Labour councillor how strong the feeling be about the threat to the post office in Bexhill . I have make it clear that the Post Office should replace the directly manage branch with a main franchise . that be what I expect it to do . I also expect there to be a consultation with local stakeholder in Bexhill , include with he as the Member of Parliament . if he have concern about that process , he be welcome to get in contact with I . I thank the Minister for meet I to discuss the directly manage branch on Kensington high street in my constituency of Kensington and bayswater . More than 1 , 000 resident join my campaign to save the service at the branch . today ' s news be welcome for they , but can the Minister give we some reassurance on when the transition will take place from the current system to a franchise model , and what guarantee he have on continue service level ? I welcome my hon . friend ' s question . I recognise that he have campaign and make representation to I on this issue , as he have set out . as I have say to other member today , he and other local stakeholder should expect to be involve in discussion about the future of post office service in Kensington and the transition to a franchise . we have the expectation — the Post Office have accept this expectation — that it will be a main service , as oppose to a local franchise , which provide Government service such as passport , drive licence and so on . I can not give he an exact timeframe for when those discussion will begin , but the Post Office have already begin to have conversation with staff and potential franchisee . I would expect they to start get in contact with member of Parliament over the next few month . Tony Hibberd , a former sub - postmaster from Colyton in east Devon , be 84 year old . four year since he submit his claim , and 14 year after his wrongful dismissal , there have still be no meaningful progress towards a fair and final settlement that reflect the loss to Tony ' s reputation . follow the statement from the Dispatch Box on 18 December , I write to the Minister about Tony ' s case and the reply that I receive refer to an offer make to Tony in December , but no such offer have be receive . the Minister refer to a new Horizon shortfall appeal scheme with a turnaround time of two month ; but again , I say that Tony be 84 year old . will the Minister urgently review Tony ' s case to ensure that he finally receive the compensation that he deserve ? the hon . Member will understand that I do not have the detail about Tony ' s case to hand , but he have ask I to review the way that the case have be handle . I be happy to do that . I be keen that complex case be resolve fairly and as quickly as possible . I recognise that many sub - postmaster have be wait a long time for compensation . we have make progress , but I recognise that there be more to do . I will happily look at Tony ' s case after this and write to the hon . member . I thank the Minister for his update on the progress to redress the victim of the Horizon scandal as well as the commitment to invest in new technology . in light of the sudden closure of a post office in Coalville in my constituency , what reassurance can the Minister give to current and prospective new postmaster that the Horizon system , which be still be use in post office , be now fit for purpose ? we be clear that we need to replace the Horizon system . as the whole House would expect , the Post Office be not take any criminal action when there be shortfall . there be process for resolve issue around shortfall in the Horizon system . indeed , I reference the postmaster panel and the way in which the Post Office management be work with sub - postmaster to help they to understand how shortfall in the system be be deal with go forward , so I hope that , slowly , we be take the first step to rebuild that trust . I be sure the Minister remember that , on 18 December , I raise the case of Donna from Mid Dorset and North Poole , who be bankrupt for a quarter of a million pound due to the Horizon scandal . the bankruptcy be cancel , but not before most of the interim settlement be deduct by the Post Office receiver . I be therefore shocked to receive a reply from the Minister in which he confirm that the GLO approach be to deduct interim payment regardless " of what the claimant do with the money " . apparently , the only option be for legal representative to undergo a protract appeal , incur more cost and delay , ensure that the lawyer get their pay day before the postmaster . will the Minister reflect on this policy , which be punish victim again and again , so that Donna get the redress that she deserve ? I ask the hon . Lady to forgive I for not have the detail of that particular case in front of I . as she have ask I to look again at that case , I will happily do so and write back to she . I thank the Minister for his statement , and for give I his time over these past few month to discuss the Morley directly manage branch with he . over 3 , 300 people sign my petition to keep Morley post office open , so it be definitely welcome that the post office will be retain . that be caveate by the fact that it will be a franchise , and there be question about its location . I be also delighted to help secure a banking hub for our community , but the service provide by a banking hub do not overlap with those provide by a post office . what guarantee can the Minister give my constituent that the new Morley post office will offer all the service that they enjoy from the current one ? I recognise that my hon . friend have be campaign hard to save Morley post office ; he have certainly make clear representation to I about it . the starting point for discussion about the future of postal service , in Morley as elsewhere , be that post office will be replace by a main post office offer Government service as well as traditional post office service . if he have particular concern about the way the transition be happen , he be welcome to get back in contact with I . I thank the Minister for his answer and commitment to address these issue . the Post Office Horizon scheme be deeply flawed from the outset , and we can not trust Horizon to provide evidence for postmaster or postmistress when the entire scandal be base on Horizon ' s unreliability . do the Minister not agree that we have no option other than to trust the people , not the computer , and that we must do the right thing by the people who have be vilify ? I absolutely pay tribute to the journalist and campaigner who expose the Post Office scandal , and who continue to campaign for those who have not yet receive redress . I have the privilege of meet a number of sub - postmaster who be very badly affect by the scandal , and those conversation will stay with I for a very long time , and I suspect that the same be true for other member who have have similar conversation . they be powerful , motivate conversation that will help this to get sort out . I put on record my complete sympathy and solidarity with the victim of the Horizon scandal , which be one of the big injustice in modern british history . I be extremely concerned in November to hear that Edinburgh City Crown post office , base in the Waverley station complex — the centre of Scotland ' s capital — be to close . I have be campaign hard to ensure that resident , commuter and business see no diminution in service , and for fair treatment for post office staff . can the Minister confirm that , thank to this Government , a franchise post office will be establish in the area , mean continuation of service for local resident ? when do he expect that transition to take place , and will he ensure that both mp and member of the Scottish Parliament be consult on where the post office will be ? I recognise the point that my hon . friend make about Edinburgh . he will remember conversation we have have about the future of the post office , in which he make very clear to I the significance of a continue post office service for that community . as I say , we will make sure that conversation take place between local stakeholder , include he as the constituency representative in this House and his Scottish Parliament colleague represent his community . colleague in Wales such as my hon . friend the Member for Merthyr Tydfil and Aberdare ( Gerald Jones ) have make similar representation to I , and be also very concerned to make sure that they have conversation about the location of their post office . for some , the post office be a lifeline . I understand the change role of the post office in this difficult and change market , but give the closure of several bank on the high street of Cosham in my constituency , the recently propose closure of the post office have cause huge concern . first , I thank the Minister for constantly meet I and listen to I . I also thank my constituent who share and sign the petition , and who get in touch about the need to save our post office , for show its value . I be pleased to see that the Government and the Post Office have be listen to they . today ' s announcement of a franchise model will allow Cosham post office to remain open . what will the Minister and the Post Office do to ensure that local voice continue to be hear in the franchising process ? can they ensure that Cosham post office retain all exist service and stay on the high street ? will he also continue to meet I to discuss this issue ? my hon . friend make a very good point about the number of bank branch closure . over 9 , 500 bank branch close under the Conservatives , who do next to nothing to ensure that they be replace by any sort of alternative service . the post office be often the last opportunity for people to access banking service on many high street . that be one of the reason why we remain committed to have 11 , 500 post office , and to the access criterion , which will help ensure that every community in the UK , include the people serve by the Cosham post office , have access to post office service . I will of course continue to meet my hon . friend , if that be what she require . I thank the Minister for his positive engagement on this ; I have discuss with he on a number of occasion the situation at Leighton Buzzard post office . can he confirm that a Leighton Buzzard post office will remain in the high street area , and what can he tell resident about the opening hour that the branch will have ? my hon . friend have push I repeatedly on the future of the Leighton Buzzard post office . we be very clear that we want post office to be locate on or very close to high street , so that they can well serve local people . I can give the commitment that my hon . friend will be consult by the Post Office and other stakeholder in the Leighton Buzzard community about how it will operate go forward . I call Dr Ben Coleman . it be just Ben Coleman , Madam Deputy Speaker , but thank you for the honorific . I be very grateful to the Minister for his statement , and for the further measure he be take to support the shamefully treat victim of the Horizon scandal . I also thank he for save our beloved post office on the King ' s Road in Chelsea , after meet I to discuss it . the news will be warmly welcome by resident in Chelsea , 1 , 000 of whom sign the petition to save that post office . can I ask he to ensure that the King ' s Road branch , when it be franchise , provide no less a service than it do now ? ideally , it would provide an even full service , if possible . that be what happen to the franchise branch on the North End Road in Fulham , which I campaign with resident to save , and which be now open seven day a week , from 7 in the morning till 9 in the evening . my hon . Friend make clear to I the significance of the King ' s Road post office to his constituent , and I be pleased that there will continue to be a post office service there . I have experience of a directly manage post office closing and a franchise opening up — in this case , in a whsmith — and afterwards the service be open for long . I hope his constituent enjoy the same experience . if he have particular concern about the way service be to be deliver , I will happily meet he again . I thank the Minister for his statement . I know that none of these issue be of his making , so I be grateful to he . Edinburgh South West and Edinburgh South share 18 victim of the Horizon scandal , and I be sure that they very much welcome what the Minister have say . I want to talk about the directly manage branch in my constituency , in Wester Hailes . that be one of the most deprived part of Scotland , so any loss in service there will be acutely feel . I know from campaign work I have do , along with Councillor Stephen Jenkinson , that the post office be use by people well beyond Wester Hailes , so it be important that we take any threat to it really seriously . the situation be make all the bad by the fact that the Bank of Scotland branch right across from it be close next month . I be slightly concerned that what be describe as a " new deal " for the Post Office might be a bad deal for Wester Hailes . for it to be a good deal , the consultation have to be right . it have to be meaningful and tailor to the people of Wester Hailes . can the Minister reassure we that this will be a meaningful consultation that will reach into Wester Hailes and understand the need of the community ? I know from conversation I have have with my hon . friend the significance of the post office to his community . I very much hope that his experience , the experience of his community , and that of local stakeholder such as the councillor he have be work with , will be positive when the Post Office sit down with he and talk through the transition . if he have concern about how those conversation be go , I remain happy to meet he to discuss they . Armed Forces Covenant Defence committee Select Committee statement we now come to the Select Committee statement on behalf of the Defence Committee . Mr Calvin Bailey will speak for up to 10 minute , during which time no intervention may be take . at the conclusion of his statement , I will call member to ask question on the subject of the statement . they should be brief question , not full speech . I emphasise that question should be direct to the Select Committee member , and not the relevant Government Minister . front Benchers may take part in questioning . I be proud to present the Defence Committee ' s fourth report of this Parliament , which be evidence of how hard the Committee have be work on behalf of Parliament and the british people in these highly volatile and uncertain time . I thank the Committee , the staff — in particular George James — and my hon . friend the Member for Slough ( Mr Dhesi ) for his leadership . I be pleased to share the armed force covenant report . as the House know , the covenant be our society ' s commitment to the armed force community — a commitment to recognise and reward their service , and ensure that they be not disadvantaged in civilian life as a result of that service . the Government say in their manifesto that they would strengthen the covenant by put it " fully into law " . our report do two thing : it look at the covenant today to examine how well it be live up to society ' s commitment to the armed force ; and it look at how the Government should make that commitment strong when they bring forward legislation . we hear that they plan to do so through the Armed Forces Bill next year . we decide that the good way to understand how well the covenant be work be to ask the people it be design to help , so we invite serve personnel , their family and veteran to share their experience with we . we be hugely grateful to everyone who take the time to write to we . their powerful contribution help we to get to the truth on where the covenant be succeed and where it be fall short . we be so grateful to the Secretary of State for give his permission to serve personnel to send we their story , as well as to the organisation who provide evidence directly to our inquiry . the evidence paint a mixed picture of how the covenant be work today . we hear some positive story , include from an individual who say that cite the covenant to their local NHS trust help they get a timely mental health assessment for their child ; but unfortunately such story be in the minority . Most of the story we receive come from people who have expect the covenant to help they but find that it be ineffective or , bad , disregarded . one person who be on a waiting list for NHS treatment be tell that their position on the list would transfer when they move from Scotland to the south of England on service , but after they move , they find themselves at the back of the queue . when they raise that with the trust , they be tell that the trust " didn ' t recognise and therefore follow the armed force covenant . " we hear many story like that . it be hardly surprising that those people view the covenant as " a gimmick " , with " no real substance " , or as something that " look good on public body ' website but in practice mean nothing at all . " the Government be therefore right to recognise that the covenant need to improve . their proposal be to extend its scope , so that more area of central Government be subject to it . we welcome that , and we recommend that the covenant be apply to all Government Departments . with that , we expect to see department pay well attention to the need of the force community when they make policy , and we expect to see the covenant apply to area of life that the exist duty do not cover , and area in which the force community experience disadvantage , such as employment , social care , welfare and immigration , in particular for non - UK passport holder . however , we be clear that legislating be only part of the solution . our evidence show that one of the big issue be that the covenant be not consistently apply , either because people be not aware of it , because it be not well understand , or because it be not give a high enough priority . that be why we hear that the armed force community ' s experience of the covenant vary massively depend on where they live . if the law be not consistently apply , amend the statute book will make little difference . that be why our report say that the Government need a proper plan for implement the covenant , in tandem with introduce new legislation . that need commitment from all Government Departments , and we should not underestimate the scale of the commitment necessary . get this right be as important as update the law , if not more so . the armed force covenant be a noble proposition , but sadly we do not always live up to it as a society . we want to get to a place where our service personnel and our veteran can be in no doubt that when they deal with their local council , doctor or employer , the covenant will support they . new legislation will help , but it be not a silver bullet . we also need to embed the covenant more deeply in our institution , and particularly across Government and in wide society . rise — order . there be no intervention during the statement . as we say in our report , the covenant give we all a duty to our servicemen and woman . we must take it as seriously as they have take their duty to we . I commend the report to the House . I call the shadow Minister . I welcome the report and congratulate all member of the Committee and the witness who play their part in the inquiry . overall , may I extend the opposition ' s good wish to our veteran , to our armed service , and to our serve man and woman , who deserve our respect and utmost gratitude every day ? I thank the hon . gentleman for outline the content of his report . as he will know , we sit on the Armed Forces Commissioner Bill Committee together . what role do he think the Armed Forces Commissioner could play in uphold the armed force covenant ? could they have an independent role in assess how Government department do ? if that be not the right mechanism , do he or his Committee have a view on some independent scrutiny to assess whether the Government and all Departments be adhere to the covenant ? have they look at how that could be uphold ? I thank the hon . member for his point . I join he in thank our servicemen and woman for their service and recognise their sacrifice . on the role of the Armed Forces Commissioner , the report state in part 3 that there have be no recognisable measure of success . the Minister and his Department will have to take that on and bring forward some answer . it be probably within that framework that the Armed Forces Commissioner will have some role . however , it be a critical failing of our application of the armed force covenant that success be not measure , so it be not monitor almost anywhere . I thank my hon . and gallant Friend for represent the Defence Committee . labour ' s commitment to fully enshrine the armed force covenant in law be a vital step in recognise the sacrifice make by our service member and their family . however , our report examine some significant gap in coverage . in particular , I highlight the treatment of non - UK personnel and their family . unlike other route , the immigration status give to serve and recently discharge personnel do not allow they to work or access social security . will my hon . friend join I in urge the Ministry of Defence to resolve this issue with the Home Office well in advance of the covenant ' s expansion ? I thank my hon . friend for raise such an important point . she do a great job in represent the home of the British Army and raise the issue consistently , both with the all - party parliamentary group on the armed force community and on the Defence Committee — indeed , she do so throughout the inquiry . my hon . friend ' s point be powerfully make because it support what the force ' family federation bring forward in their evidence . they point out that : " there be no other immigration route in which someone legally in the UK isn ' t allow to work or claim benefit whilst their application be be decide . " that be a massive travesty and a failure , and an example of the armed force face a unique disadvantage . it be exactly the sort of anomaly that an update covenant should attempt to address . I want to put on the record my thank to the hon . and gallant Member for Leyton and Wanstead ( Mr Bailey ) for bring the report to the Chamber today . the Government must urgently reconsider the propose change to the application of inheritance tax on certain armed force death - in - service payment . the Forces Pension Society have describe that as " a direct breach of the Armed Forces Covenant " , warn that it will have a " corrosive " impact on serve personnel and undermine trust in Government . do the hon . member agree with that , and what step do he think the Government need to take to rectify the situation as quickly as possible ? I thank the hon . member for his intervention and for raise a valid and valuable point that the Government must take forward and consider . it be not part of the Armed Forces Act 2021 , but it be the type of thing that other Government Departments should be look at . a series of question about that have go to the Department to see whether it be something that could be tackle . I know that the Minister for Veterans and People , my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Selly Oak ( Al Carns ) , who be here on the Front Bench , be work on that . we must remember , however , that there be a difference between death in service and death while serve . there be an important distinction there , because to not recognise that can create a whole load of complexity that people who have serve will understand probably more uniquely than other . I thank my hon . and gallant Friend for bring this important report to we today and for the Committee ' s work . North Lincolnshire council have establish a physical armed force hub dedicate to provide comprehensive support to all member of the armed force community , offer assistance on health and housing . Doncaster city council have the veteran ' s innovation fund , which provide fund of up to £ 300 to help with barrier that impact individual ' wellbee . that be all amazing , but if our veteran do not know about it in the first place , it can not help they . they deserve our respect and they deserve our support , particularly when they come out fight for each and every one of we . do my hon . friend agree that , as we go into the Easter recess , there be a need for we to make a priority of promote the armed force covenant in every one of our constituency ? I be aware of the work that my hon . friend be do to support the armed force community in Lincolnshire , particularly in Donny , which be an old and well - love RAF station . bring back job to the community that will provide opportunity for veteran be very important . I agree with he that we all need to go out and champion the armed force covenant because it impact we all : if we do not get it right , we will adversely impact recruitment and retention and therefore our armed force ' ability to serve we . do the hon . and gallant Member think that our Northern Ireland veteran , and specifically our former special force member , be under attack from the very state that they serve ? do he think that they deserve protection under the armed force covenant ? as the hon . and gallant Member know , this matter be not raise — correction , he indeed raise the issue and receive a response from the Minister about how our veteran be be handle and the complexity involve . I do not agree that they be under attack . I believe in justice and the rule of law and that those have be equally apply . the Government ' s approach be valid and honest , and it will do right by our veteran in the end . I thank my hon . and gallant Friend , and indeed all member of the Defence Committee , for an invaluable report . during his contribution , he mention one example of a soldier move cross - border and that cause problem with NHS appointment . do the Committee recognise that soldier and veteran can be disadvantage by difference in policy between the nation of the UK ? how do we think the Government can well go about address those problem ? I concur with my hon . friend and be sure that other example of that will be bring forward . the difference in application across England be quite stark , but when we extend into Scotland , they can be mark and almost unjust . the only place in the world where our service personnel be apply a differential rate of taxation be in Scotland ; it be in Scotland that our service personnel have different access to provision of family support , in particular childcare ; and it be only when our service personnel be post to Scotland that they receive differential treatment in term of their education . the report highlight that and I think it will be quite a challenge for the devolved Government to say that they be they be actively meet the armed force covenant until those thing be address . each branch of our UK armed force face challenge in maintain personnel strength , with each below target and experience a net loss in train personnel . will the hon . and gallant Member share what impact the Committee feel the covenant be have on retention ? how do the Committee see the covenant dovetail with the recommendation of the Haythornthwaite review on armed force incentivisation ? I thank the hon . member for her powerful and incisive question . the armed force continuous attitude survey consistently show that the armed force feel as though the covenant be not apply . two figure that just fall out of the report be that about 31 % of our service personnel feel as though the covenant be not be apply to they in term of the NHS , and about 40 % feel the same in term of education . the net upshot of those failing be the continual erosion of the feeling among service family and service personnel that they be be support by the state and broad society . one in three people who enter the military do so as a result of meet someone in the military . if we apply those figure to that number of people , we must expect that they be not pass on a good story . that will continue to erode people ' s ability to join the service , which be why this be so important . order . I ask that the final few question and answer be a bit short . I thank my hon . and gallant Friend for his statement on behalf of the Select Committee . I read the report this morning , and some of it make for quite shameful reading . I want to touch on the childcare issue again . someone serve in the military who have young pre - school child be well off in England , but if they have old pre - school child they be well off in Scotland . this issue be raise with my directly when I recently meet 3rd Battalion the Rifles , who be base in my constituency . Captain Shaun Swift be very clear that this cause friction for movement and make it hard for spouse to maintain job . be this issue be raise directly with the Scottish Government , and can we encourage the UK and Scottish government to work together to address this issue ? in short , yes , the covenant be go into law . the report show the stark contrast between governance in the UK and in Scotland . only last week , I speak to a serve constituent who highlight the issue he have have regard the selective application of the armed force covenant by university . there be university that have sign the covenant but offer no additional dispensation regard study break for service personnel who be undertake a course but be subsequently deploy . deployment be often for 26 week , not include pre - deployment training or post - tour leave , whereas the maximum study break be around 16 week , in two term of eight week . this may lead to the service person drop out of the course and the forfeiture of their enhance learning credit , through no fault of their own . can I ask the Select Committee member , or indeed the Minister , to take this into account in order to facilitate the resettlement that service personnel depend on ? I will . as someone who be impact thus myself , this be something I be aware of , and I will take it back to the Defence Committee for a response . as the MP for Portsmouth North and for the family and friend of those who currently serve and have serve , I understand the sacrifice that they be make . the Committee will know that one of the main reason for service personnel leave the armed force be the impact on their family . do my hon . friend agree with I and with the Naval Children ' s Charity that the opportunity for child to receive priority in - year school admission to secure a school place and the timely transfer of education and healthcare plan when relocate between local authority would be welcome addition to the armed force covenant ? my hon . friend be a great champion for the Royal Navy community in her constituency , and she raise an apposite question that go to the heart of an area where the armed force covenant have be overlook , which be education . I be sure that the Minister for Veterans and People will take this on as part of his deliberation . one of the report ' s recommendation be that the covenant should be apply consistently across the United Kingdom . the hon . and gallant Member will be aware of my party ' s submission , which point out that Op Fortitude , which be design to support homeless ex - service personnel , be effectively non - existent in Northern Ireland and that veteran in Northern Ireland face barrier in accessing specialised healthcare service such as the veteran ' orthopaedic service at the Robert Jones and Agnes Hunt orthopaedic hospital . be he confident that , should there be a plan to implement the covenant and legislate for it , it will cover all part of the United Kingdom equally ? will he and the Committee continually review that situation ? I thank the hon . member for raise that incisive point . the covenant must be consistently apply across the UK , and I think that be go to be a big challenge to the Government and to the regional government . it will take a review , and that be something that the Defence Committee have agree to do once the armed force Bill be be consider and be under way . I commend the Defence Committee for talk to the family of service personnel as well as directly to soldier , sailor and airman . if I think back to the people with whom I serve , they tend to be phlegmatic about make the ultimate sacrifice , but they care a great deal about the satisfaction of their immediate family — their spouse , their partner and their child . could the hon . member talk a little bit more about what the Committee learn from the engagement it have with the family of service personnel about the armed force covenant ? I thank the hon . and gallant Member for his question , which focus on what the Committee learn about armed force family and their service . what strike I be the amount of unseen trauma the family suffer as a result of their movement . there be some very upsetting tale of how people have be force to move around the country and not receive adequate support from other Government Departments that would allow they to have a normal existence , or an existence that would be consider normal to anyone that be not in the military . it be those thing that we need to go after , and it be those thing that the armed force covenant should protect . I would like to thank he for his service as well . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I want to correct the record . when I ask my question , I do not refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , which indicate that I be a trustee of the armed force parliamentary scheme . I apologise for not do so . I thank the hon . gentleman for his point order . the record will now reflect that fact . energy ( Social Tariff ) Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to require energy company to provide social tariff for low income customer ; and for connected purpose . last week , we see people ' s energy bill go up by another 6 % , as Ofgem raise the energy price cap again , mean that typical household now face bill of not far off £ 2 , 000 a year . my argument for a social tariff be bear out of a career spend grapple with Britain ' s energy market , include in my work with the current Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero in the old Department of Energy and Climate Change , where we see , through the global financial crisis , the need to well protect consumer from volatile energy price . watch he try to convince energy company to lower their price as the country face spiral cost and economic chaos convince I that a social tariff be the least a Labour Government could and should do to protect the most vulnerable . much have change since then . there have be significant success in shift to clean power , as a result of a political consensus — hold across this House until recently — on the need to decarbonise our energy system to tackle climate change . this Labour Government ' s mission to achieve clean power by 2030 be part of our long - term solution to bring energy bill down for good . People see increasingly that there be further benefit to such a shift : great energy security from generate our own energy rather than be expose to the whim of petrostate and dodgy regime , as well as a reduction in the cost of generate that power . some 96 % of newly instal solar and wind capacity have a low generation cost than natural gas . however , consumer be not feel the benefit of cheap cost as much as they could , partly because our energy price be set by global oil and gas price . as an MP , the reality of fuel poverty be frequently ram home to I on the doorstep , where concern be raise about the rise cost of energy and the pressure that they put on household budget , especially among those on low income . I remind the House that East Thanet be not a leafy , affluent community of the kind that many people associate with the south - east . it be a coastal community with high level of deprivation , much low - pay and insecure work , many elderly resident , many family with a disabled member , and many cold , old and draughty home . in Thanet , a quarter of all working - age adult claim universal credit , and over 40 % of people claim at least one form of benefit from the Department for Work and Pensions . these be the people who suffer most from increase energy bill , and who often have to choose between heating and eating . a social tariff that support the most vulnerable with their energy bill and prevent they from fall into fuel poverty would protect they from some of the failure of the current energy market , and shield they as that market be reform to make the most of leave fossil fuel behind . the energy market need to change so that the effort the Government be make to decarbonise our energy system truly deliver benefit for consumer . the reform of retail price will need to be part of that . as a member of the Energy Security and Net Zero Committee , I have hear witness ' grow call for such change . the vast majority of home be heat by gas , while electricity be much more expensive . the cost of shift to clean power have be load on to electricity bill , create a disincentive for many to choose to shift to electric heat . we artificially make electricity more expensive , which make it impossible for some to move to clean power . it be those who can not pay who be least prepared . rapid change have always be associate with upheaval and risk . a social tariff , work as part of the welfare state , can support people as we make these change . this be the right thing to do from not only a fuel poverty perspective but a decarbonisation one . a modern welfare state have do this before , and it can do it again . the Labour party be the party that create the welfare state , and on these Benches , we understand why have a strong social safety net be vital , but energy be an area where the safety net have a gape hole in it . that be why a targeted social tariff be need — so that we can provide vital support for those in the great need . there be also an increasingly chronic problem with consumer energy debt . People owe more than £ 2 billion in energy bill debt , and that figure have double in the past three year alone . those in debt then become stuck in a cycle where they face an increase in energy bill while also try to pay off the debt they have build up . that be not sustainable for those consumer or even the energy retailer , which have to deal with the fallout from fuel poverty debt . the warm home discount be the most prominent current scheme to help with this issue , but it be simply not sufficient for the scale of the challenge . it have not scale with retail price — as energy bill have increase by hundred of pound , the warm home discount have increase by only £ 10 since its introduction . the discount be also limit to household receive mean - test benefit , mean that many family live in fuel poverty miss out on this vital support . a social tariff should build on the warm home discount but not replace it . the purpose of the Bill be to enshrine in law the principle that a social tariff should be provide by all energy company , to ensure there be no supplier lottery for those who need support . it should be additional to exist and plan support , it should be target , and it should be sufficient enough to reduce cost to an affordable level . National Energy Action have argue that we need to aim a social tariff at people on low income , people with disability , carer , household with low energy efficiency , off - gas grid home and household with prepayment meter . there be far too many complaint by energy company that they can not identify the people who need this support . these category tackle that problem , because we already have the datum : we know who be in receipt of universal credit , disability benefit and carer ' s allowance ; we know those on prepayment meter and the home with poor energy rating . these be people who face huge financial pressure and who be at the forefront of the cost of living crisis . these be the people who be most at risk of fuel poverty , and , crucially , we can find these people , so that those who need the support get it . this Government have rightly establish a child poverty taskforce to tackle the scar on our society of child grow up poor . a social tariff can be part of a wide approach to tackle this moral outrage by ensure that the family who be most in need have to worry less about their energy bill . child who grow up in household that struggle to pay their energy bill be more likely to struggle at school and more likely to end up struggle in life . however , simply protect people from a fail energy retail market be not sufficient . we should be develop a package of measure that prioritise shift the most vulnerable on to the clean , cheap and more secure energy that we be generate ourselves . there be always a risk that the case for such market intervention be make simply by talk about protect people from the bad extreme of the market , but it be also important to say that such a measure increase economic security and be therefore good for economic growth . it put money in people ' s pocket . money they be spend on excessive energy cost be money they be not spend in their local economy . with this relief , they can be part of the economic revival of the place in which they live . this be not a new idea ; social tariff be already work in many other country . for example , Spain have a tariff that provide a 35 % discount for vulnerable customer and a 50 % discount for severely vulnerable customer . I have spend a lot of my career work on how energy can be generate , supply and consume in a way that do not cost a packet or the planet . for far too long , energy company have urge consumer to " engage " with the energy market . that , in my view , have always be base on a failure to understand that for most people , energy be a means to an end . it be not exciting , and it can be stressful , especially for those who be struggle . we should be in the business of reduce that stress , so that people can spend their time and energy do thing that be more interesting and fulfilling . the very least we can do for those who already struggle to do exactly that because of limited mean be to protect they from the market . that be why a social tariff should be part of our plan for change and our national mission to transform this country for the well . question put and agree to . order , that Ms Polly Billington , Yuan Yang , Torcuil Crichton , Andrew Pakes , Pippa Heylings , Luke Murphy , Wera Hobhouse and Mike Reader present the Bill . Ms Polly Billington accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 25 April , and to be print ( Bill 220 ) . Backbench Business Blair Mayne : Posthumous Victoria Cross I beg to move , that this House have consider the potential merit of award a posthumous Victoria Cross to Blair Mayne . it be a pleasure to serve under your chairship , Madam Deputy Speaker . I thank the Backbench Business Committee very much for the opportunity to secure this debate , as well as member who have take time before the recess to come and make a contribution . I be truly thankful for the recognition of the importance of this debate in this Chamber . this be not merely about a Newtownards boy and his exploit , although I will tell of those ; this be about how we as a House honour our veteran hero and ensure that that honour be properly record . at a time when veteran can feel that their service be a thing of shame , the importance of recognition go to every service personnel member throughout the country . I know that that mean so much to so many in Newtownards and my home town of Strangford , and I be thankful that this debate have be deem worthy of be hold here in the great seat of democracy . I be pleased to see the Minister for Veterans and People in his place , honourable and gallant Member that he be , and I thank he for come along . I be also pleased to see the shadow Minister and the liberal Democrat spokesperson in their place . I be no writer like Damien Lewis , whose work on Blair Mayne and the foundation of the Special Air Service be unparalleled . however , allow this Ballywalter boy to retell the story that I hear the old man in the town rhyme off in my youth , as a crowd of we listen in awe about how one of we could achieve so much . imagine be an eight , nine or 10 - year - old , with all these old soldier from the second world war tell all these great story , and always have want be a Royal Marine commando , as I do as a wee boy — I never achieve that , by the way ; the Minister for Veterans and People do . I manage to get to the Ulster Defence Regiment and the Royal Artillery . that be not second good , by the way , but it be not as good as what I want as an eight - year - old . we listen to the story of those soldier , and I ask Members , briefly , to listen to a scene of what happen . the air be fill with the scream of the dying and the stench of the dead . you be gasp for breath as your lung take in gulp of gunpowder - tinge air . you be lie in a ditch . the enemy be fire so often without break that the rat - tat - tat of bullet merge together . you know that each sear breath may well be your last . the officer you look to for direction be dead . deep in your heart you believe that it will take a miracle to lift you from this scene of hell . suddenly , you hear something different : the roaring of an engine , a jeep . with your last vestige of energy you lift your head , and with sting eye you make out the form of a jeep cutting through the madness and mayhem . the man on board fire at the enemy like an avenge angel . he slow the jeep down at the ditch , and on his way past he call , " I ' ll pick you up on the way back . " nothing flowery — no grand word , just a promise that perhaps it be not time for you to go just yet . with a hammer heart , you watch as the man in the jeep force the enemy to retreat , despite the fact that the enemy hold all the advantage of position , man and firepower . as the enemy retreat , the jeep turn round . this time it stop . the avenge angel jump to the ground amid a hail of bullet and hold out his hand . shake , you grasp that hand as you be bundle in with your 11 colleague and drive wildly to safety . as you look to see what form your angel take , you see this crazy Ulster man — we be not all crazy , by the way , but we be all very brave , although I wouldn ' t be as brave as this man . it be Paddy Mayne , and everything fall into place in just that one second . he be a man know for bravery and courage , and for lead his man to victory — a man who be , and in your eye and the eye of your surviving family will forever remain , a hero of epic fame . that be a true story about Lieutenant Colonel Blair Mayne ' s action , as see by one of the man who be save by Paddy , as he be affectionately know . the story do not take into account that before Mayne and Lieutenant Scott have drive the jeep into oncoming enemy fire , Mayne have sum up the situation . that be what he could do : he could lead from the front , as a leader of soldier , with courage and determination . he be a man who be bear for that time . ever a man of initiative and action , Paddy enter the first house that form the enemy defence . after check to ensure that the enemy be dead , he move out into the open and fire into the next house , take out those behind the enemy fire , before move in to ensure that none of the enemy remain . Paddy Blair Mayne be a colossus of a man who stand tall , command his man and inspire bravery and loyalty . after ensure a clean sweep , he turn his attention to how good to save the trap point man of the squadron . he know that the enemy be well ensconce in the forest , with no way to surround they , and he depart on what seem like a suicide mission to rescue those man . not only do Paddy manage to rescue his colleague , but he force a retreat from the enemy and help the ally to advance at a time when they be hold up . it have be say that a level - one award , such as the Victoria Cross , be give only when the chance of death be 50 % or more . a report from Brigadier Calvert , date June 1945 , say : " there can only be one explanation why Colonel Mayne be not kill by what have already prove deadly and concentrated fire : the sheer audacity and dare which he show in drive his jeep across a field of fire momentarily bewilder the enemy . " he continue : " Colonel Mayne from the time he arrive dominate the scene . " that be the man he be : he be there and he have no fear . " his cheerfulness , resolution and unsurpassed courage in this action be an inspiration to we all " . that be an account from the soldier who watch that colossus of a man jump out and rescue they , and win the day for the ally in their advance in Germany . undoubtedly , it seem a suicidal mission to rescue his comrade and ensure that the enemy retreat far , but Colonel Mayne ' s mission be a complete success . in the word of Brigadier Calvert : " not only do he save the life of the wounded but he also completely defeat and destroy the enemy . " Lieutenant Colonel Mayne ' s story be the stuff of which legend be make — legend that we know to be true . when we be boy in Newtownards and Ballywalter many year ago , we look to be that person . it be the stuff of which many of we dream as young boy and act out in our garden . Blair Mayne be certainly a hero of mine as a young child , many year ago . his action be those of a man who put other first , and who go above and beyond the call of duty . there be absolutely no doubt that his action on that day be heroic , and worthy of recognition and commendation . that be why Brigadier Calvert recommend that Mayne be award the high award , the Victoria Cross . Mayne be inform that he be to be grant that well - deserve accolade , and he inform his mother accordingly , which make she even more proud . who be more proud of anyone than their mum ? mum think that whatever their child do be brilliant — my mum be the same . I hope that be true , by the way . I have tell that war story because it be a factual , historical account . the BBC ' s " SAS : Rogue Heroes " dramatisation about a found member of a covert special raid squadron — a hero many time over , repute to have single - handedly destroy 130 enemy plane and commend for the high military award — be a global success . however , six month after he be recommend for the award , a terrible mistake happen . that mistake strip Blair Mayne of his hard - win honour and much of his self - esteem . the award of the Victoria Cross by the 1931 royal warrant be bestow upon those who display act of conspicuous gallantry and for a " signal act of valour " in the presence of the enemy . Paddy Mayne have more than attain that standard , but the mistake lie with the word " signal " , define in the Oxford English Dictionary as " an event or statement that provide the impulse or occasion for something to happen . " in other word , a " signal " event be not a planned event . Mayne certainly qualify for the award , but the word " signal " be misread as " single " . it be a clerical error and we be very clearly put forward that viewpoint . Mayne have be accompany in the jeep by Lieutenant Scott , who provide cover fire . therefore , Mayne have not act single - handedly , which mean that he be deem to be ineligible for the award . that change have be query on a number of level over the year , and yet it appear that that alteration result in Mayne be strip of the award . instead , he be give a third bar to his Distinguished Service Order . I have see the evidence that Lieutenant Colonel Blair Mayne be suppose to get the Victoria Cross . on his citation , " VC " be mark , but stroke out for the commendation . that be important evidence . a team of historian have be work hard on source those document , which I make available to the Minister this morning — although , to be fair , I think he have they beforehand , so he now have two copy . I put on the record my thank to Damien Lewis , to Patric McGonigal , who be the grandson of one of the SAS original , and to David Robinson among so many other local historian invest in this issue . Brigadier Calvert recommend that Mayne should be award the VC for his action in rescue his man . he submit sign statement from three officer who witness those action : Lieutenant Scott , Lieutenant Locket and Lieutenant Surrey - Dane . calvert refer to the difficulty of assess the military significance of Mayne ' s action in relation to the overall thrust of the canadian division : " I enclose a citation for the VC for Paddy Mayne . I have go into this thoroughly with his officer and I think it be an outstanding piece of work . one almost expect these thing from Paddy . the main point be , however , as to how much it affect the battle . " Simonds agree with he . Major General Vokes also write in support of the citation ; in his opinion , Mayne ' s spirited leadership and dash be a most important contribution to the success of the operation . he say : " I observe the very marked respect and regard in which he be hold by his officer and man . in my opinion this officer be worthy of the high award for gallantry and leadership . " I be not sure whether the tv programme " SAS : Rogue Heroes " really portray Blair Mayne in the way that it should have — he never use bad language , for instance — but he be portray as a leader of man . nobody can be in any doubt that he be a man who lead his soldier , show leadership and give confidence and encouragement to those around he . the citation be sign by Brigadier Calvert , Major General Vokes , Lieutenant General Simonds , General Crerar — the commander of the 1st canadian army — and Field Marshal Montgomery of the 21st Army Group . the documentation that I have clearly outline that official oversee the matter misinterpret the VC rule as need a " single act of valour " , whereas they in fact need a " signal act of valour " . the difference be in that wording . we be not here to throw aspersion : we be here to outline the system and how it work and how clerical error lead to this happening . that mean that the denial be base on a procedural error or an error of understanding , and that wrongdoing need to be readdresse properly . one historian have note it be clear that " VC " have be mark out because of that clerical error . it be important to note that I do not ask the Ministry of Defence or his Majesty ' s government to overturn the entire apple cart on " no retrospective reconsideration " : we be simply ask for an error to be correct in this specific and singular case . we be all aware of other posthumous vcs be grant . for instance , Private Richard Norden be posthumously award the Victoria Cross for Australia for his bravery during the Vietnam war , specifically for his action during the battle of Fire Support Base Coral in 1968 . the basis be that an error occur that can be correct . we be not the only people who can not understand why the medal be not award . King George VI ask how it be that the Victoria Cross " elude " Paddy and inquire why the award be downgrade . when the King ask Winston Churchill to explain the demerit , he be say to have be shock and sadden by the glare omission . inquiry be also make by several officer who could not understand what have happen . they do not have the access that we now have to the file , which clearly show the intent and the redirection . in short , while a " signal act of valour " be originally specify , a " single act of valour " never be . that clerical error be the reason and the thrust behind what we be ask for . by the time of world war two , the VC would be award " for most conspicuous bravery or some daring or pre - eminent act of valour or self - sacrifice or extreme devotion to duty in the presence of the enemy " . what a man ! what a hero and a courageous person , with bravery such as many will never witness . as a wee boy , that be just what I wish to be . all that be confirm by the witness involve in report on Blair ' s action at Oldenburg . furthermore , the VC can also be award posthumously . those be the three reason I give : the word " single " , the fact that the VC would be award for " conspicuous bravery " , which be never in doubt , and the fact that the Victoria Cross can be award posthumously . there be no other record reason why the recommendation to award a VC be not action . her late Majesty Queen Elizabeth ' s uncle , Major General Sir Robert Laycock , be at the time a serve officer in the force . he write a letter in which he state that Blair Mayne deserve a Victoria Cross — he earn it with his bravery — and would have receive one have the proper authority know their job . I say that very respectfully ; I always do that . as a consequence , Blair Mayne do not receive the great honour that this country can bestow . no matter how much be award the high french accolade mean , be give and then strip of his british honour haunt Mayne for the rest of his life . the memory of Blair Mayne live on , and not just through the BBC series . many in my town argue that while he be rough , he would never have curse in front of a lady , and his comrade do not fear he — instead , they revere he . his memory be cherish in the heart of ards people , and there be a statue of he in Newtownards town centre . his image adorn wall that once boast mural depict paramilitary paraphernalia . Blair Mayne ' s history — his service in uniform , his bravery and his conviction — be on the wall of Newtownards , include many of its community centre . when the council decide to build a new leisure centre , it be name the Blair Mayne leisure centre , because his sporting prowess be a matter of pride to we all . when a coffee shop open a couple of year ago in Newtownards town centre , it be call Colonel Paddy ' s , because we all revere he — by the way , its coffee be excellent . I live on coffee and fried egg . his legacy be important to the people of our wee town . member may be aware that rule 40 . 12 of the civil procedure rule explicitly permit fix clerical mistake in judgment or order , or error arise from any accidental slip or omission , as long as the intent of the original decision hold . that be really important — it be the thrust of the debate . the original decision be to allow the VC , and the law allow for slip of the pen to be correct . let an error stand , as in this case , perpetuate an injustice , especially if the mistake skew the outcome , which it have . I be very conscious of the time limit that you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and other have ask I to conform to , so I will conclude . it be say that King George VI ask Paddy Mayne how it be that he have not receive a Victoria Cross , and he answer in a manner that sum up this courageous and honourable man : " I serve to my good my Lord , my king and my queen , and none can take that honour away from I . " today in this House , we have the chance to restore what be his . it be time that the memory of a man who live for his colleague and his country be restore to its full glory through the restitution of the Victoria Cross . I thank the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , both for secure this debate and for open it in the way that he have . well do ! I know that this be an incredibly important subject to he , and during his retelling of Paddy ' s activity in war , I could almost see the " Commando " comic from my childhood before I . I do not intend to speak for too long ; this will be really just a long intervention . when the hon . member for Strangford ask I to support this debate , I do not really know who Paddy Mayne be . while the hon . Member be a lovely guy , his politic can sometimes be a little bit dodgy , so rather than say yes on the spot , I decide to do some homework . I could see quite quickly that the case be strong , and I feel bad for even have to research it . when I get home that week , I speak to my son , who quietly point out that we have watch the tv programme about Paddy Mayne together , and that he have also buy I a book about Paddy Mayne for Christmas . I have still not read it — do not tell he . the week after that , I visit Redford barrack in Edinburgh South West . I meet a serviceman there from Northern Ireland , and I take the opportunity to ask he what he think . he be offend that I even have to ask he about it , because he feel the case be so strong . while I do not speak for he , he be a little bit upset about the way in which Paddy be depict in the second series of " SAS : Rogue Heroes " , and make the point about the language specifically . I have ask resident in my constituency what they think about today ' s debate and what the trajectory should be , and overwhelmingly , people get back to I say that the case be strong . there be a real feeling that Paddy be overlook because he be sometimes forthright in his opinion , because he sometimes challenge authority — which be not always a good thing in the force , I guess — and above all , because his face sometimes do not fit . one of my constituent say to I that Paddy deserve the Victoria Cross , and if he win it , that will be a victory for all the people who be overlook because they go to the wrong school or come from the wrong background , and have that count against they . I agree with my hon . friend about the need to do research . the podcast " we have Ways of make you talk " give a much well introduction to Paddy Mayne . do my hon . friend agree that we need to look at the rule of recognition for those serve in the special force , and ensure that some of the difficulty that will arise in publicly recognise those very brave troop be take into account ? I will try to listen to that podcast on the train home this evening . the issue about those in the special force often come up , but I have absolute trust in they to follow the rule of engagement and the rule of war at all time , and I respect they and all our armed force for the work they do . to conclude , we be not here to demand that Paddy get a VC , or to demand that he get it on behalf of all other who have perhaps be overlook — particularly not this year , the 80th anniversary of the second world war . we be say that it be time to look at the issue with fresh eye . that should be do through a formal process — not here in this House , but by people who understand the matter much well than we — to ensure that a fair decision be reach . the hon . member for Strangford have be clear about what that fair decision should be . I rise to support the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) in his call for a posthumous VC for Blair Mayne . we be speak about a man whose courage and leadership help shape one of the good fighting force in the world . although the name of Lieutenant Colonel Blair " Paddy " Mayne of the SAS be etch into military history , one honour that he do not get be the Victoria Cross , and today ' s debate be an opportunity to look at the circumstance and potentially correct that . Mayne , as the hon . Member say , be a soldier of rare calibre . as one of the found member of the SAS , he lead countless raid deep behind enemy line in north Africa and Europe , often at great personal risk . he lead from the front , destroy enemy aircraft , supply line and infrastructure , often with nothing more than a small group of man and his sheer willpower . his character and courage be legendary , but those have , as have already be mention , be colour and to an extent misrepresent in the recent BBC series through use of artistic licence . while we consider the merit of award Blair Mayne a posthumous VC , I want the House to reflect on the citation from his Distinguished Service Order award . he be first award it on 24 February 1942 for his leadership during a raid on the Tamet airfield in Libya . the citation say : " the task set be of the most hazardous nature , and it be due to this officer ' s courage and leadership that success be achieve . " the first bar to the DSO be award on 21 October 1943 , in recognition of his action during Operation Husky in Sicily . the citation say : " in both these operation it be Major Mayne ' s courage , determination and superb leadership which prove the key to success . " the second bar to his DSO be award on 29 March 1945 for his command of the 1st SAS Regiment in France , which co - ordinate operation with the French Resistance . the citation say : " it be entirely due to Lt . Col . Mayne ' s fine leadership and example , and due to his utter disregard of danger that the unit be able to achieve such striking success . " as be vividly recount by the hon . member for Strangford , Mayne be recommend for the Victoria Cross for his action in Germany in April 1945 , where he rescue wounded man and eliminate enemy position under heavy fire . although the recommendation be downgrade — the subject of this debate — it do result in the third bar to his DSO . that citation say that " Lt . Col . Mayne be in full view of the enemy and expose to fire from small arm , machine gun , sniper rifle and Panzerfausts … he then seize a Bren gun and magazine and single handedly fire burst after burst into a second house , kill or wound the enemy there " . if that do not meet the standard for the Victoria Cross , we need to seriously ask what do . some say that it be too late and we can not rewrite history . this be not about rewrite history , but right a wrong . Awarding Blair Mayne the VC posthumously be not just about a medal . it be about honour a man whose valour be undeniable , whose action inspire those around he , and whose legacy live on . let we act today , not for glory , but for justice , and for Paddy Mayne . let first draw member ' attention to my membership of the Writers ' Guild of Great Britain . I be delighted to have be call to speak in this debate about the merit of award a posthumous Victoria Cross to Lieutenant Colonel Robert Blair Mayne , well know as Paddy Mayne . I know that the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) feel passionately about this issue , and he speak about it very eloquently . I be a member of the Backbench Business Committee , which hear application from Back Benchers for debate on all kind of topic , and I have to say that this application catch my particular attention . I be a television screenwriter before I be proudly elect to this place , and I be a huge fan of the hit television drama " sas : Rogue Heroes " , create and write by Steven Knight . it be a vivid retelling of the story of the formation and achievement of Britain ' s Special Air Service , which be form by David Stirling as the ultimate military disrupter . in the second world war , the SAS change the nature of the fight against the Nazis in Africa and beyond . the drama be among the good illustration of why the United Kingdom be a powerhouse of the creative industry . the writer , cast and crew of " SAS : Rogue Heroes " , work for the production company Kudos , create a hit show that capture the irreverence , humour and bravery of the SAS , and retold the story of those brave man for a new generation . I be sure that as I make this speech , bot will be crawl over Steven ' s fantastic script to train artificial intelligence model , just as they have crawl over my script and those of thousand , indeed million , of other screenwriter . they will be steal copyright material , hard write and hard win by real human , scrape it from under our nose , without permission , to make money for their AI company . if only we have the AI equivalent of " SAS : Rogue Heroes " and the like of Paddy Mayne to protect we ! we will just have to rely on something that be a little more tame but still have tooth , and that be good legislation . Paddy Mayne be unforgettably play in the series by Jack O ' Connell , who bring the character to vivid life . the producer of the show , Stephen Smallwood , tell I that shoot in the Sahara desert in July at 50 ° make o ' Connell and the other actor think that they be just as hardcore as the SAS — until they be remind that they have an air - condition hotel and a cold beer to return to that night . the condition in which Paddy Mayne and his colleague operate be truly beyond anything that we can imagine now . the raid that Paddy lead in Libya be follow by legendary outing in Italy and Sicily , before he demonstrate outstanding courage by rescue wound man trap in a Nazi ambush , clear a machine - gun position and clear a path for the ally advance . that be truly the stuff of legend . that outstanding bravery earn he a citation for a Victoria Cross , but it be downgrade to a Distinguished Service Order — his fourth — which have cause puzzlement ever since . although Lieutenant Colonel Mayne be one of the very few recipient of a rare third bar to the DSO , my hon . friend the Member for Strangford be not alone in think that that be not enough , and that he should be posthumously award the Victoria Cross . I understand , however , that it be a key tenet of the british honour and award system that such honour be not grant retrospectively , so that decision make by peer and commander at the time be respect . how and why the citation be overturn may never be fully understand , but let I say to the hon . member for Strangford that although the pen stroke of a bureaucrat may be lose in the mist of time , Paddy Mayne ' s legacy live on in the democracy and the value that we now take for grant , but which be win by the sacrifice of Mayne ' s fallen colleague and the wide armed force . his legacy live on in the celebration next month , when we will mark the 80th anniversary of victory in Europe , VE Day , and then in August , when we will mark the 80th anniversary of victory in Japan , VJ Day , commemorate the end of the second world war . I be sure that if he be alive today , Paddy Mayne would be look to we in this place to do right by the man and woman who serve and risk their life for this country . I be proud to be part of a Government who be committed to strengthen support for our veteran and armed force community by put the armed force covenant fully into law and ensure that veteran have secure home . million of people around the world have now learn about Paddy Mayne ' s courage and leadership through the tv show . seventy year after his untimely death , Paddy Mayne have officially pass into legend , and his phenomenal bravery will live on forever in the motto of the SAS : " who dare win . " I rise to speak about a man whose name be etch into the very dna of the british special force — a man of exceptional courage , legendary leadership and unrelenting service to this country : Lieutenant Colonel Robert Blair Mayne , affectionately know as Paddy Mayne . I commend my hon . friend the Member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) for secure the debate . there be no well man to take this issue forward and to try to right the wrong that be do to Paddy Blair Mayne . mighty man have come from Newtownards , in the form of Paddy Blair Mayne and my hon . friend . in Northern Ireland , we talk about rough - cut diamond , and Paddy Blair Mayne be just that . he be certainly not perfect — none of we be — but when it come to his service , he certainly lead from the front and be a mighty man . he be one of the found member of the Special Air Service , and help to build it into the elite force that we know and revere today . his leadership during world war two change the course of modern warfare . he be a warrior in the true sense : fearless , inventive and utterly devoted to his man . Mayne be award the Distinguished Service Order not once , but four time — an honour that be almost unheard of . he be a man who lead from the front , and who raid behind enemy line with such ferocity and tactical genius that even his enemy respect he . he destroy over 100 aircraft in dare mission across north Africa . he risk everything time and again — not for medal or recognition , but because it be his duty . however , despite the eyewitness account of unimaginable bravery under fire , and the legacy that he leave behind in the SAS and british military history , he be deny the Victoria Cross , and this wrong have never be make right . it be a lingering and grave injustice . the Victoria Cross be the high award for gallantry in the face of the enemy . it be mean to honour " the most conspicuous bravery " or " a daring or pre - eminent act of valour or self - sacrifice " . Paddy Mayne be the very embodiment of those word . however , this be not just about right a wrong from the past ; it be about recognise what he give and what he give up . he lead from the front while other hesitate . he put his own life on the line so that his man could return home , and his example have inspire generation of servicemen and woman . this be a matter not of sentiment , but of principle . it be time that this country honour Paddy Mayne not just with word , statue or story , but with the medal that he so clearly earn . I urge the Minister to reconsider this case with the seriousness and urgency it deserve . Lieutenant Colonel Paddy Mayne be a national hero . he give his all , and now his country must give he the long - overdue recognition he deserve : the Victoria Cross . I thank the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) for secure today ' s debate . the award of the Victoria Cross have an extraordinary impact on individual and their family , friend and community . I will give an example of my own from the town of Hatfield Woodhouse , where we be proud to have produce Corporal John William Harper VC . Corporal Harper serve in the 4th Battalion of the British Army ' s York and Lancaster Regiment during the second world war , and on 29 September 1944 he lead his section in an assault over open ground against a fortified position . he lead from the front , and repeatedly move forward alone to establish the way forward before expose his own comrade to danger . unfortunately , Corporal Harper be fatally wound in the assault , but his action secure the success of the attack . hatfield remember Corporal Harper by maintain a twinning arrangement with the town of Merksplas in Belgium , where his gallantry take place . memorial to he can be see at the local St Lawrence church and at the site of the war grave , and local child still learn about " Harper VC " at school in Merksplas and Donny today . even in the last few year , a new extension to the Hatfield area be name Harpers Heath in his honour , show that the memory be still important to the people of the town . this be important as part of today ' s debate because , as time move on and new generation be bear , the story of the Victoria Cross and the legend who receive it mean we never forget their gallantry , and we never forget the gallantry of all the people who have serve we . that be why this award of a Victoria Cross could make all the difference in recognise a hero such as Blair Mayne , who sacrifice so much for other , but also for the pride it bring to the community . regardless of what the Minister say , I be so pleased that the hon . member for Strangford , whom I call my friend , have be able to raise this today , and Blair Mayne ' s effort will be recognise in the Chamber and remember forever . I congratulate my neighbour the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) on secure this important debate — we could almost smell the cordite in his opening remark . my first encounter with the Special Air Service be when , just as we be get to the good bit , the John Wayne film on tv be interrupt , and it be over to Kate Adie as man in bug - eyed respirator end the iranian embassy siege on 5 May 1980 , amid the thunder of flashbang and the staccato rattle of small arm fire . as a journalist , I later meet John " Mac " McAleese , who really be the man on the balcony , not — I hate to break it to member — that bloke down the pub mumble about the colour of the boathouse at Hereford , as Walter Mitty character do . I also become friend with Colonel Clive Fairweather , second in command of the regiment . sadly , both man be no long with we , but in life one thing be obvious : neither be a reckless psychopath . they be hard man — yes , of course , for theirs be a lethal business — but rather more planning and preparation go into tier 1 special force than novel and tv would have we believe . controversy reign over television ' s brilliant " SAS : Rogue Heroes " and Blair " Paddy " Mayne ' s depiction , but it be nothing new . there be all sort of claim about the book " Bravo two Zero " when it emerge after the first Gulf war . be it fact or fantasy ? Peter " Billy Rat " Ratcliffe , former regimental sergeant major of 22 SAS , tell I , " life in the regiment be not really about garrotte 200 sentry , you know . " " but you do know how to garrotte a sentry , don ' t you ? " I ask . in his Salford accent , he tell I , " oh , yeah , but I ' d rather shoot you from a mile away — less chance of be compromise . " that be uncompromise , but careful , thoughtful and cunning too . as such , these man be surely the inheritor of the spirit of Blair Mayne . for certain , he could be a wild man , especially in drink — there be a cottage on the Isle of Arran pockmark yet by round fire from his service revolver after a surfeit of whisky — but it fall to Mayne to protect and indeed nurture the nascent SAS when its founder , Sir David Stirling , be a prisoner of war in Italy and the infamous Colditz . if Mayne be as unhinged as he be portray , he would not have be able to apply the quiet discipline need to forge a bunch of rogue into an effective and elite fighting force . it strike I that the only recklessness Blair Mayne display be for his own safety , never that of his man — his " Blades " , as SAS trooper be know . concern we today be the action at Oldenburg on 9 April 1945 , but let I be clear that this be not football - style var for gallantry medal ; we be not reopen case by the dozen , just this oddity . we may never know what precisely happen there almost 80 year ago to the day . we do know that Mayne be recommend for the VC , and his audacity be the only thing say to have keep he alive . we may also never learn what make the authority downgrade that VC . be it professional jealousy ? special force face that today : the sobriquet " the Hereford hooligan " be unfairly append to the SAS in many a mess , and SF officer who ought to be general somehow do not make the cut . Mayne ' s hand shape the SAS , and the regiment have in turn guide special force around the globe . US Major Charles " Blisters " Beckwith raise the Delta Force — he promise it " will get you a medal , or a body bag . maybe both " — after time spend with the SAS . Mayne ' s legacy be secure , and there be no doubt his courage . we be not here to critique " SAS : Rogue Heroes " — it be fun and it have a great soundtrack and great acting , although the accent be as sketchy as the history . instead , we should coolly examine the real Major Mayne and ask why the VC be approve by all who matter but rescind in murky circumstance . I be a student of military history , have undertake a distance learn MA with the excellent University of Birmingham . one of the first lesson learn be that history be not fix — it be not preserve in aspic — but shift and change as new detail and perspective open up . look at the so - call ch â teau general — man who in life be highly rate by their troop , only later to be accuse of be donkey lead lion . aside from the few who think that " Blackadder go Forth " be a documentary , that trope be happily be revisit . we should have courage enough today to look again at the Mayne case , too . eighty year on , we can sense something odd about the lack of a VC — " signal " , rather than " single " , perhaps ? the military be split in two into ratcatcher and regulator , and we need both . we need regulator with their rulebook and procedure in time of peace , and we need maverick ratcatcher in time of war . Mayne be a fine ratcatcher , and regulator then and now should not stand between he and this country ' s premier gallantry medal . I begin by simply acknowledge the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) for table an early - day motion and securing today ' s important debate . the hon . Gentleman have support so many new starter in this House since we join Parliament , so it be a pleasure to support he in his advocacy of this important cause today . as we have hear from member across the House , with his courage and bravery , Robert Blair " Paddy " Mayne stand alongside the great soldier of our reckoning , past or present , and the heroism that he demonstrate during the second world war be rightly celebrate . however , I want to take a moment to shine a light on a lesser - know but remarkable chapter of his life : the work he do with the Falkland Islands Dependencies Survey . this chapter reflect his unwavering dedication to service and duty , but it also hold a special resonance for I personally . as a recover academic with a strong interest in the UK ' s overseas territory , an observer of the 2013 Falklands referendum , and a former Shackleton scholar , I have have the privilege of visit the Falkland Islands on numerous occasion , most recently in 2023 . during those visit , I have see for myself the pristine wilderness and unparalleled beauty of the island ' s wildlife , but above all the unwavering strength of the people who call the Falklands home . in the aftermath of the second world war , one might have expect Robert Blair Mayne , have give so much in battle and skirmish , to have seek the comfort of home , family and a well - earn rest , but that be not the direction he choose . instead of step away from public service , he delay his return to civilian life and join the Falkland Islands Dependencies Survey , a precursor to what be now the British Antarctic Survey . the organisation , which begin life as a naval operation in 1943 under the codename Operation Tabarin , have an important strategic purpose . while its official mission have be to monitor enemy shipping , its true goal be to counter argentine and chilean territorial claim in the Antarctic and assert british sovereignty by establish manned basis in the region . when the war end , the operation transition into the Falkland Islands Dependencies Survey . in late 1945 , three former SAS member , include Lieutenant Colonel Blair Mayne , join the expedition . lead by Naval Surgeon Commander Bingham , with Mayne appoint second in command , this be no ceremonial visit to the southern hemisphere . Blair Mayne fully embrace the challenge of the mission : he be active on board the ship , on the ground and on the ice , participate in the full scope of the expedition , lead dog team , survey wildlife and camping in some of the harsh , most isolated condition imaginable . Mayne ' s journal and photograph offer a rare glimpse into the life and work of british explorer , surveyor and scientist in the southern hemisphere and Antarctica during the immediate post - war period , reveal not only the isolation of the vast icy landscape , but the camaraderie he share with his comrade — a recurrence of the same camaraderie he demonstrate during his active service in Europe and north Africa . it be only a recur back injury , one sustain during his wartime service , that force Mayne ' s early return to the Falklands for medical treatment . nothing could be do to ease the condition or the pain from which he suffer . from Port Stanley , Mayne be transport back to England and thence to Northern Ireland in the spring of 1946 . the injury that cut short his antarctic service would trouble he for the rest of his life . still in his 30 and resettle in Northern Ireland , Mayne , a former british and Irish Lion , be say to live with such profound and chronic pain that he be unable even to spectate rugby match from the terrace at Ravenhill . for 80 year , Mayne ' s supporter have remain acutely aware of the injustice that deny the Victoria Cross to this extraordinary man and undisputed national hero . Blair Mayne ' s legacy be not only of valour in battle , but of unparalleled leadership , courage and sacrifice under the severest of condition . Colonel David Stirling , who himself know something of courage and leadership , note of Mayne that " he have a marvellous battle nostril . he could really sense precisely what he have to do in a situation . it wasn ' t sheer courage , it be sheer technique . " today ' s debate be not about rewrite history ; it concern the righting of a historic wrong — one that be evident at the time of its making in 1945 and one that have become only clear with the passage of time and the application of a clear - eyed historical lens . on the 80th anniversary of Mayne ' s recommendation for the Victoria Cross and in the 70th anniversary year of Mayne ' s untimely death in 1955 , there could be no well or more appropriate moment for his Majesty ' s Government to take up the cause and finally award Lieutenant Colonel Robert Blair Mayne the Victoria Cross — a recognition earn in 1945 , which be now 80 year overdue , but we hope not for much long . I have not intend to speak in this debate , Madam Deputy Speaker , so forgive I for not be as eloquent as other contributor . it be an honour to follow the hon . member for Surrey Heath ( Dr Pinkerton ) . he mention David Stirling , and it would be remiss of I not to mention , particularly while wear this tie , that David Stirling be , of course , a Scots Guard — my own regiment , in which I spend 25 year . I congratulate the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) on secure this debate . for something that be 80 year too late , it be timely . he have I , to be perfectly honest , when he say that the King be confused and disappoint that Mayne have not be award the Victoria Cross . he have I when he say that Winston Churchill be equally confused , discombobulated and disappoint . it be the mention of Churchill that put I in mind of a particular Churchill quote about medal : " a medal glitter , but it also cast a shadow . " that have be go round my head as I have listen to hon . member , so much so that I go and find the whole quotation . it be from a speech give in this place on 22 March 1944 . I quote : " the object of give medal , star and ribbon " — I will not do an impression by the way — " be to give pride and pleasure to those who have deserve they . at the same time a distinction be something which everybody do not possess . if all have it it be of less value … a medal glitter , but it also cast a shadow . " — [ Official Report , 22 March 1944 ; Vol . 398 , c . 872 . ] the way to get rid of shadow be to shine a light . I welcome the fact that the hon . member for Strangford be shine a full beam light on the case of Paddy Mayne today . I invite the Minister to continue to shine that light with a review of this case in the cold light of day , such that the Ministry of Defence can reconsider and award Blair Paddy Mayne the Victoria Cross he so richly deserve . that bring we to the Front - Bench contribution . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) for secure this debate . on 8 May , this House , together with the whole country , will celebrate the 80th anniversary of victory in Europe . this important milestone provide we with a renew opportunity to reflect on the sacrifice and struggle of that great generation , who fight to protect Britain and preserve our freedom and democracy in the face of fascism and tyranny . it be our duty in this House and in our community across the UK to recognise and celebrate the contribution make by our incredible service personnel to the security , defence and prosperity of this country . that must include reflect on the service of all current military personnel who protect we today , the live veteran who have finish their time in the armed force , and the servicemen and woman from previous generation who be no long with we . they be , all of they , bind together by a thread of service and sacrifice for this country . we must continually renew our gratitude and remembrance of that service . therefore I welcome today ' s incredibly valuable debate . it shine a spotlight on the gallantry and heroism of one of the UK ' s most decorate servicemen , Blair Paddy Mayne , whose propose recognition with a posthumous Victoria Cross I warmly support . as the premier operational gallantry award , it be worth while remind ourselves of its requirement . it be award for " most conspicuous bravery , or some daring or pre - eminent act of valour or self sacrifice , or extreme devotion to duty in the presence of the enemy " . it be clear that Blair Mayne personify the high standard of bravery in the face of the enemy and across his career in the Special Air Service , and on that basis merit the award of a Victoria Cross . Blair Mayne be one of the first leader of the SAS follow its formation in 1941 . it be design with the intention of conduct guerrilla warfare against the axis power , which be at that time on their march across Europe , Africa and Asia . the SAS ' s role in the second world war be unconventional but crucial . its work to disrupt operation behind enemy line , particularly through its use of small - scale raid , intelligence gathering and support for network of resistance group against the fascist occupier , be vital in undermine the axis ' s political and military strength . as part of the then regiment , Mayne show extraordinary valour and heroism while carry out dangerous and daring raid in north Africa , Italy and France , harass Nazi and fascist supply line . indeed , in November 1941 May ne lead one of the first SAS mission consider to be a major success — an attack on a libyan airfield , which see dozen of enemy aircraft destroy . in January 1943 , follow the capture of Colonel David Stirling , Mayne take over the command of the SAS , go on to lead his man in campaign in Sicily and Italy , before the SAS take part in the D - day landing . these be just a few example of the conspicuous bravery display by Mayne in his leadership of the SAS . it be important to remember too that for Mayne and all the member of this elite regiment , be apprehend by the Nazis from 1942 onwards would likely have mean their summary execution at the hand of their captor . consistently operate under such condition require , without doubt , exceptional bravery . Mayne be already one of our most decorate veteran . he be one of only eight people during the second world war to be award the Distinguished Service Order on four occasion — at the time the second high gallantry award behind the Victoria Cross . this serve as an important testament to the consistency of his bravery , leadership and resolve , often in the face of odd stack against he . it be only right and fair that we honour that courage today through the award of a posthumous Victoria Cross . indeed , the award of a Victoria Cross would honour not only Mayne but in many way the role of our special force writ large , both historically and to this day . for many people , their knowledge and understanding of the SAS will have be inform by the BBC ' s dramatisation of the regiment ' s found in " SAS : Rogue Heroes " , which member have already extoll . the series have have an important impact , highlight the enormous contribution of the SAS in secure the freedom we celebrate today and protect it still . it have also highlight the important work of the BBC in bring story such as these to the public ' s attention , impress on all of we the sacrifice and courage of our armed force . there be now only a few living veteran of that great generation who can recall their story and remind we of the price that they and so many other pay to defend our way of life . just last month we say goodbye to another Paddy , Group Captain John " Paddy " Hemingway , who be the last surviving pilot of the battle of Britain and who , as part of the RAF , defeat the Luftwaffe and defend our country from invasion . we have a responsibility to champion their voice and their deed , and to continue to recognise act of outstanding valour and heroism in our armed force . that be why I warmly support the award of a posthumous Victoria Cross to Blair Mayne , the decoration that King George VI say have " so strangely elude he " but be within our gift to correct . I call the shadow Minister . like everybody in the Chamber , I thank the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) for secure this debate on the final day before Easter . we have really enjoy listen to the story he share as well as those share by many other across the Chamber . although I have never want to be a commando , I have many of they as constituent who I call friend , and there be many hon . and gallant Members across the House who be also my friend . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , as I will refer to the Commonwealth War Graves Commission during my speech . I think that I would start my remark by mention the one Victoria Cross that I have a direct interaction with — albeit a posthumous one — while I work for the war grave commission . in 2020 , an australian ordinary seaman — the great thing about the Victoria Cross be that it know no record of rank ; it be open to everybody — be award that posthumous VC by the late queen . what be lovely about it be that when the naval memorial be undergo a renovation a year later , the initial VC be add after the name . to be able to watch the lettering be create and solder into place be particularly move . that be another example of a posthumous award that have be give . what be strike about the comment make by the hon . member for Strangford , for South Antrim ( Robin Swann ) and for Upper Bann ( Carla Lockhart ) be the repetition of the word " leadership " . anybody in the Chamber who be like I would have be think , " gosh , this man be a brilliant example of some of the thing that we need to show as politician . " I feel quite inspire listen to the thing that Paddy Mayne do . as the hon . member for Strangford say , he be a leader of man , he be bear for that time , he dominate the scene and none of the enemy remain . we do not want to be too political , but perhaps those be some great mantra for we as we head into the local election . he defeat and destroy the enemy , indeed . however , we be here to talk about he . I particularly enjoy the more modern reference to screenwriting and to our journalistic colleague from the hon . member for Scarborough and Whitby ( Alison Hume ) and my hon . friend the Member for Dumfries and Galloway ( John Cooper ) , as well as the link to the Falkland Islands make by the hon . member for Surrey Heath ( Dr Pinkerton ) . it be particularly important to understand what Paddy Mayne do after he leave the SAS . we also hear reference to Corporal John Harper VC and that reminder of Winston Churchill ' s word — and indeed the King ' s word — from my hon . friend the Member for Spelthorne ( Lincoln Jopp ) . may I take this opportunity to place on the record my and his Majesty ' s official Opposition ' s unwavere support for our special force as they exist today ? they continue to play a vital role for our country . while we will always respect the requirement for operational secrecy , I be sure that hon . member on both side of the House sleep soundly know that we have such a highly trained and brave set of soldier protect the nation . it be a real honour to speak in the debate , represent as I do a constituency that be home not just to many veteran but to many serve personnel , some of whom I know take part in the most daring and dangerous mission . the life story of Robert Blair Mayne , or Paddy Mayne , be , as we have hear , by all account exciting , brave and just a little controversial . he operate in some of the most unforgiving location in the world — for example , north Africa and the Normandy landing — highlight the vital work of the new elite commando force , the Special Air Service , that come into be during the second world war , of which Blair Paddy Mayne be such an important member . it be in no doubt that Lieutenant Colonel Paddy Mayne serve gallantly and with distinction . that be something that his military record clearly highlight , have receive his Distinguished Service Order and three bar — even if one of those be the whole point of the debate — as well as Officer of the Legion of Honour from France and the Croix de Guerre from Belgium . however , evidence may now exist to suggest that that third DSO bar should indeed have be a VC all along . I know how important secure the appropriate level of honour for Paddy Mayne and other be to many today : those who be still alive and serve at that time and those who fight on their behalf . indeed , I have spend hour with one of my constituent , Ivor Foster , who believe deeply that his service as part of Bomber Command should be recognise with a distinct medal rather than with a clasp on the 1939 - 45 star . even though I do not entirely agree with he , to this day he will not apply for the clasp , such be his desire to be recognise for his work . in contrast , it seem that reopen Paddy Mayne ' s case may indeed be in order . that specific case aside , our overarching position as a party be that we continue to support the independent medallic recognition process . it be an independent honour and awards committee ' s job to decide the nature of gallantry award ; in the case of the Victoria Cross , it rightly remain in the gift of the sovereign . equally , I remain reluctant about the process become politicised or there be a precedent towards either overlook history or second - guess it . hon . member will be unsurprise that , have work for the Commonwealth War Graves Commission , I be particularly interested in the historical fact that we need to ensure that we follow . have spend six year work for the commission across the south - west , I want to touch on one story that I think be helpful to what we be discuss this afternoon . anyone familiar with the iconic CWGC headstone may be aware that many have a small inscription at the bottom — always worth a look if hon . member be ever in a cemetery . it be know as the personal inscription . unfortunately , I do not think to write any example down in my speech , but there be a brilliant website where they can be find . the inscription be institute as a way for family to personalise a headstone . interestingly , they come about after much debate in this place about the uniformity of the headstone decide on at the end of the first world war and the lack of choice for family in how their love one be to be commemorate . that be definitely a story for another day , but I recommend a deep dive into Hansard if hon . member be at all interested . as the work of the commission have continue over the decade , in some case headstone have have to be replace due to wear and tear . with that often come contact with the descendant of the casualty , who by definition generally do not know the person and often do not know their relative either . the commission have therefore set in place a policy for what to do when modern - day relative wish to add a personal inscription to a replacement headstone . essentially , they be not allow to add one if there be none or change what be put there at the point of the original installation . the decision be reach that there be a reason why the family at the time choose not to inscribe or , indeed , choose the form of word that have be there for decade , and because the commission do not have record of why an inscription be add or not , add or change it , in the commission ' s belief , would alter the integrity of the commemoration . I share that story as I believe it have some bearing on how posthumous gallantry award be consider . it be my view that something that significant must reflect historical fact . television show such as " SAS : Rogue Heroes " , as we have hear much about this afternoon , and indeed the late must - see " Adolescence " — albeit on a very different topic — do so much to bring untold story to the fore and get the country talk about issue that have previously not be discuss . even though such story can promote debate , the policy and decision make around the issue they raise must be evidence - base and consistent and must not set an unhelpful precedent . however , in this case , it seem that compelling new evidence be come to light that prompt a rethink . at its core , this debate be about an individual soldier — a northern irish soldier from Newtownards who step up when his nation need he . I mention his birthplace because I be sure it will not go unnoticed by those in the Chamber that while we stand here today celebrate the heroic action of one SAS veteran , many veteran of that service be currently live in fear of vexatious legal action . most recently , the Clonoe verdict have shine a spotlight on our Northern Ireland veteran again , and I take this opportunity to place on the record my thank to the Minister for Veterans and People for his support for a judicial review of the Clonoe inquest . protect our veteran be something that I hope carry unanimous support and I know the Minister be a passionate advocate for veteran ’ affair . I hope that his experience and judgment be already be seek by his colleague in the Northern Ireland Office ; perhaps he may advise they to reconsider their plan to repeal the Northern Ireland Troubles ( Legacy and Reconciliation ) Act 2023 . as already mention , this debate also provide another opportunity to discuss our country ' s record on veteran ’ affair . the previous Conservative Government set a new standard for support veteran with the creation of the Office for Veterans ’ Affairs , a Veterans Minister around the Cabinet table , the introduction of veteran ID card and Op COURAGE to support mental health service for veteran , no doubt many of whom would have be the colleague of Paddy Mayne have that service exist back then . our backing of those who stand up and serve be a matter of public record , and I welcome labour ' s commitment to much of that work . however , before I conclude , I want to highlight just one issue relate to these second world war veteran that the Government might like to give some attention to . as we approach the 80th anniversary of VE day and VJ day , it be vital that we keep in mind the few than 70 , 000 veteran of world war two who survive , unlike some of the colleague of Paddy Mayne , and who be still alive . as we know , these man and woman be likely to be fast approach , or indeed to have reach , the incredible age of 100 . that bring I back to my constituent , Ivor Foster . just a few week ago , I visit Ivor at his care home as he remain exercise about the cost of his social care . have live to the ripe old age of 99 year and eight month , he be spend £ 5 , 000 a month to live in a local care home . there be a range of reason for that , but I believe that ahead of 8 May , Ivor ' s case highlight that we be fortunate enough to be live in the midst of man and woman who , as in the case of Ivor , not only live through the war but take part in active combat , fortunately survive and then contribute to society afterwards . I gently ask the Minister , in a slightly cheeky way , what consideration have be give to how we will acknowledge and show our gratitude to those few than 70 , 000 individual who be still alive , as we mark the anniversary of the liberation that they and Paddy Mayne fight for . I be grateful to the hon . member for Strangford for the opportunity to contribute to this debate , give both my constituency link to our commando force as the home of Royal Marines 42 Commando and my previous career with the Commonwealth War Graves Commission . I be a passionate advocate for veteran ’ affair , so it have be an honour to stand at this Dispatch Box and debate such an important topic . case such as this rightly cause a debate , and I be pleased that we have be able to have this conversation today , not least because it have give we another opportunity to express on the record the commitment and gratitude that we share across this House for the brave man and woman who serve and have serve our country in the armed force . we owe it to all serve personnel and veteran to ensure that gallantry medal and award at all level be present where the evidence be irrefutable , to ensure that their intrinsic value be maintain . it seem that the story of Paddy Mayne may do just that , and I await the Minister ' s response with interest . I thank the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) for bring this important debate to this place today . it be really important that we shine a light on this issue . I have the great respect for the sustained and passionate advocacy in support of a posthumous Victoria Cross for Lieutenant Colonel Robert Blair Mayne . I would also like to fully associate myself with the powerful tribute the hon . Member have pay , as have many in the House today , to Lieutenant Colonel Mayne , who be without doubt one of the great hero of the second world war . his legacy live on in the spirit of the Special Air Service today , and his courage and accomplishment be rightly celebrate for our generation by the portrayal — slightly dramatised , perhaps — in the recent BBC drama " sas : Rogue Heroes " . it be particularly pertinent that Lieutenant Colonel Mayne be recognise for his bravery at the time . he be one of the very few recipient of the rare third bar to the Distinguished Service Order — I only have one ; he have three — in recognition of his action as commander of the 1st SAS Regiment during Operation Howard in April 1945 . it should be remember that this make he one of the Army ' s most highly decorate officer of that time . while it be possible to give gallantry award posthumously , it be a key tenet of the british honour and award system that they be not grant retrospectively . this ensure that award be timely and clearly link to specific action or activity , and in particular that they be award within the context of the time . as I have mention many time , specifically when talk about Northern Ireland and various inquest and inquiry , it be the responsibility of those investigation to understand the context of Northern Ireland at the height of the trouble . it be also up to we , sit in this warm place on these wonderful Benches , to understand the context in which the senior general make those decision around gallantry medal . for gallantry award , as well as for civilian and military honour , the guide principle be that they will not be consider more than five year after the incident in question . it be worth recall that all significant battle and operation that take place in the second world war be discuss in great detail in the context of medal recognition at the end of the war . it be worth note that , out of all the year of war , it be only in 1945 that more Victoria Crosses be award posthumously than to those live . after year of war , many have see conflict , courage and commitment to service , and while it be not necessarily fact , the bar — no pun intended — for VCs be statistically high at the end of the war . it be worth note that it be recommend in June 1946 that no further recommendation for gallantry award should be consider after 1950 . from what we know , from the paperwork that exist about Lieutenant Colonel Mayne ' s recommendation for a Victoria Cross , there be lot of speculation that appropriate process be not follow or that an administrative error take place . the evidence we have suggest that Lieutenant Colonel Mayne ' s citation pass through the correct chain of command and be properly consider by a succession of senior officer , all of whom have a lot of combat experience in leadership and in the field , and be experience in the consideration of medallic recognition and gallantry award after many year of hard fighting during the second world war . I think it might be worthwhile bring forward some of that correspondence . certain correspondence — hold by the Canadian National Archives — from the Deputy Military Secretary to his counterpart in the first canadian Army reveal some doubt about the VC in the discussion between member of the VC committee . it state that the VC committee consider it not quite clearly up to VC standard , and that it be not a single - handed act of heroism — that go to the point about " single " or " signal " . in the letter , the Deputy Military Secretary also suggest the award of the third bar to the DSO . it can not be know for certain whether that be the reason why the VC be amend to DSO in third bar form , but it be likely . it be clear that , at some point in the process , it be consider more appropriate for Lieutenant Colonel Mayne to be award a third bar to his DSO , which be itself an exceptionally high honour . that decision be sign off by Field Marshal Montgomery , who have considerable combat experience throughout the whole of the conflict . we also know that it be not uncommon at the time for the recommend level of award to be change as the citation go through the consideration process . today , the process remain relatively similar . I sit on many such honour and award committee in my time in the military . such committee , at unit , brigade and division level , will rank award against the context from their own particular perspective . a unit may have 20 to deal with , a brigade 60 and a division 100 . we do not necessarily know the totality of the picture at the time Lieutenant Colonel Paddy Mayne ' s citation be consider at each level . there may have be stiff competition across the military , particularly in the Army . I fully respect all those who disagree with the decision make in relation to Lieutenant Colonel Paddy Mayne . however , I believe it credible to conclude that he be a war hero of the high order while also conclude that , in some case , it be not appropriate for officer , official or Ministers work today , some 80 year later , to overrule the decision make by senior officer at the time , who be steep in wartime experience and have a contemporary appreciation of the brave action of Lieutenant Colonel Mayne and , importantly , his peer . fantastic point have be make in this important debate . Winston Churchill cast a shadow over those who perhaps do not get a medal . for everybody who do get one , there be probably 100 , if not 1 , 000 , who do not get one but definitely deserve to . interestingly , the australian precedent be mention twice , include by the hon . member for Strangford . however , Australia ' s separate honours system do not have any impact on UK policy . Australia not only bestow one VC retrospectively for Vietnam , but , as be rightly mention , a second retrospective VC to Ordinary Seaman Edward Sheean , who be kill in 1942 . that speak to the VC have no boundary across service or domain . the remark about the Falkland Islands be news to I . I be sure that Paddy Mayne enjoy the isolation and camaraderie of a small team wander around those pretty barren but amazing place . the Bomber Command medal highlight how divisive the medal and honours system can be . I be sure that those with military service can remember multiple conversation about who get award and who do not . as we talk about honour those who serve in the second world war , it be worth note that many world war two veteran be up on the main screen of Piccadilly Circus today for thousand to see , honour their service during that war . combat can bring the good and bad out of we . as I have say several time in the House , courage be a decision , not a reaction . it be clear to I that Lieutenant Colonel Mayne make multiple decision that be deeply courageous rather than just reaction or habit — indeed , they probably become habit because he make they so often . to conclude , I be extremely grateful to the hon . member for Strangford for the opportunity he have give we all today to mark and lionise the incredible bravery , leadership and spirit demonstrate by Lieutenant Colonel Mayne some 80 year ago . Robert Blair Mayne be simply one of the great from our great generation — a man of audacity , ingenuity and fearsome courageousness , whose raid behind enemy line and courage in rescue injure comrade under fire be the stuff of military legend ; a man whose spirit live on in the " who dare win " motto of the SAS . the proud history of the SAS mark it out as one of the most battle - harden and professional organisation of its time , and the very tip of the spear . Paddy Mayne be not only a hero within his regiment but a national hero , and he remind I of the saying , " in time of peace , we must protect the maverick . " it be recognise that clerical mistake in judgment or order , or error arise from any accidental slip or omission in language , can explicitly be fix — and there be no time limit for do so — as long as the intent of the original decision hold . as a Member of Parliament who have a mention in dispatch , a Military Cross and a DSO , I will take note of the new evidence that have be highlight , its context , and the exceptional circumstance of this debate , and I will ask the honours and awards committee to review the evidence and find a decision . once the decision be find by that independent body , it will be finalise . that will provide an answer , once and for all , on how Paddy Mayne ' s service be recognise . there be lot of mention today of look at the evidence with fresh eye in the context , and have a cool , calculated review of the historical fact . the honours and award committee will do that , and we will present that evidence in the House . I thank the hon . member for Strangford for our debate . Lieutenant Colonel Robert Blair Mayne be a man whose spirit and legend will remain recognise in the annal of the mother of Parliaments in perpetuity . I call Jim Shannon to wind up the debate . I be not sure if I get the chance to wind up the debate , so thank you for give I this opportunity , Madam Deputy Speaker . first , I thank all member for their contribution . I learn today , for instance , that Blair Mayne serve in the Falklands — that be the first time I have hear that — and I look forward to share what the hon . member for Surrey Heath ( Dr Pinkerton ) tell we with some of the family . I thank everyone for spend their Tuesday afternoon before recess in this Chamber to discuss award Blair Mayne a posthumous VC . I thank the hon . and gallant Minister for agree to review the matter ; we be deeply indebted to he . the family back home and we in Newtownards and the constituency of Strangford , where that good son we be proud of come from , look forward to a successful conclusion of that review . I wish every Member a very good recess . rest yourself — I know I will not , but that be by the way — and have a nice time , and come back here energise . I thank the hon . member for his inspire Easter wind - up . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider the potential merit of award a posthumous Victoria Cross to Blair Mayne . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . thank you for allow I to make this point of order . we be about to retire for the Easter recess — indeed , the Adjournment debate be about to begin — but I be rather perturb by the fact that the Order Paper no long list it as the Easter Adjournment debate , but instead as a general debate on " matter to be raise before the forthcoming adjournment " . as you know , Madam Deputy Speaker , I have be a Member of Parliament for 24 year , and the Easter Adjournment debate be always a significant occasion , mark the fact that Easter be the holy time of year for Christians in this country . I look over to the other side of the Chamber and see the crest of Sir David Amess , who be here for every Easter Adjournment debate . can I have an assurance that this be the Easter Adjournment debate , that we have not take away the christian character of this important occasion , and that that will be reflect in future Order Papers and in Hansard ? I be grateful to the hon . member for give notice of his point of order . the subject for debate today , include the title of the debate , be determine by the Backbench Business Committee . the debate title be not a matter for the Chair ; the hon . Member have the opportunity to take that up with the Chair of the Committee , the hon . member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) , who I suspect might be about to speak . far to that point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . may I assure you , and the whole House , that no discourtesy be intend whatsoever ? we do not get notice of whether we would get time for a debate , and when that time would be , until quite late on . I take what my hon . friend the Member for Romford ( Andrew Rosindell ) have say . we will take that point back to the Committee and will ensure that we correct the matter for the future , and have Easter and Christmas recess debate . the summer recess debate we have already rechristene the Sir David Amess debate . I hope that reassure my hon . friend . I thank the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee for that clarification . that bring we to the Backbench Business Committee debate on matter to be raise before the forthcoming — I believe I might have the licence — Easter adjournment . Easter Adjournment I beg to move , that this House have consider matter to be raise before the forthcoming Adjournment . the first quarter of this year have fly by , and it seem as though it be only yesterday that we be prepare for Christmas and the new year . I be pleased that the weather have finally indicate that spring have spring , and with the clock go forward , the day be get long , and everyone be a little chirpi . I apologise in advance because I have a bit of a cold , so I hope I do not develop a meldrop during this speech . it have be a busy few month , both in Parliament and across my constituency . I have be speak in the Chamber , host resident tour and event , visit school , prepare for local election , pilot a Presentation Bill and chair the Backbench Business Committee ; and we have celebrate Lent , Ramadan , Navaratri , and Holi — but still no trophy for Tottenham Hotspur . maybe if we play more like Bodrumspor , we would finally win something . that be an in - joke for my team . for colleague it have be an exhausting time , and many of we may be feel like a bit of a " wabbit " by the time we get to the vacation . I be delighted that I have assume the chairmanship of the Backbench Business Committee , follow in the footstep of the former Member for Gateshead , who stand down have serve nine year as Chair of the Committee . it be encouraging that so many member be keen to get in on this debate , and I hope to hear some topical and important issue be raise . however , if any colleague be apply for a Backbench Business debate , they will probably have to wait until the end of November or December before they will get a debate in the Chamber , because we have such a long waiting list . I thank the Leader of the House for make time to meet I to discuss the Committee and ensure that Back Benchers have adequate time to discuss matter that they wish to raise . let I mention Transport for London . regular attendee of these debate will know that I regularly bang the drum for lift in tube station in my constituency . I be sorry to say that I be still bang the drum , and we still do not have any lift . however , we recently have an excellent report from the Transport Committee on disabled access to public transport , and a subsequent statement in the House on that issue . it be clear from the report , and the experience of my constituent , that we need a tight definition of " step - free " , and that that may require a change in the law . my call for a lift at Stanmore station be just , as be the call of the many member of this House who be campaign to make their station step - free . the station may be officially classify as step - free , but that be a very broad definition . at Stanmore station , to get from the gateline to the street , people have to either go up 71 stair , or go up a ramp so steep that even Baroness Grey - Thompson could not manage it . they then have to wheel themselves through a car park with no pavement for nearly 400 yard . we think that we need legislative change . if that be what we need , we want it , as well as lift at Canons Park and Queensbury station . I note that a lift be be plan for Eastcote station , in my neighbouring constituency , although that station get far few passenger than Stanmore , accord to the late datum . clearly , Transport for London consider a lift at Stanmore to be inconsequential . I see no option but to make legislative change to remove Stanmore ' s suppose step - free status , in order to get some movement from TfL . as chairman of the all - party parliamentary group on UK - Israel , I know that Members of the House be all conscious of the escalate situation in the middle east . there be a clear and present danger that if terrorist remain in Gaza , the conflict can not have a long - term resolution , and that Hezbollah , Iran and extreme force in the middle east could be drag into a full - scale war with Israel , which none of we want . the event that have unfold in the middle east since 7 October 2023 have be unbearable to witness . Israel suffer the bad terrorist attack in its history , at the hand of the Iranian - back terrorist Hamas . innocent civilian be brutally murder and hundred be take hostage , include baby , child and the elderly . the hostage have be hold in appalling condition , and the account give by those who have be release have be distress and harrowing . as a direct consequence of the action of Hamas on 7 October , and the use of civilian infrastructure to undertake terrorist action , palestinian civilian be face a devastating humanitarian crisis in Gaza . my thought be with the family of those still hold hostage , and every innocent life that have be lose or impact by the conflict . I firmly support Israel ' s right to defend itself against security threat , but we must continue to press the Government to work with international partner to support a ceasefire in Gaza , to release all hostage , to provide aid , and to work towards a lasting and sustainable end to the conflict . in the long term , I continue to support a credible and irreversible pathway towards a two - state solution for Israel and Palestine , with both nation , and the wide region , live side by side in peace and security . I thank the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee for oblige I with all these debate over the year . there be a couple more come up , which will keep we busy in a few week ' time . on the future of Gaza and Israel , I support the two - state solution as the way forward , but do the hon . Gentleman share my view that peace can happen only if Hamas be not there ? Hamas be try to restrict freedom and liberty . do the hon . Gentleman believe that they can not be part of a future in which everyone can be at peace ? I thank the Backbench Business Committee season ticket holder for his intervention , but I assure he that it will not get he any favour in his application for further debate . I be sadden to hear that on Sunday night , Hamas yet again fire 10 rocket into Israel in an attempt to cause further harm and destruction , despite the civilian of Gaza be in desperate need of a ceasefire . if that do not show that they be a terrorist organisation , I do not know what would . they be focus solely on the destruction of not only Israel , but their own people . it be an outrage that they be still in position . with Passover come , I pray that we can reach a true settlement , restore peace in the region , and ensure that no more life be lose in the war against terrorism . have just celebrate the persian new year , Nowruz , we need a free and democratic Iran . in Iran , people continue to be supresse by the undemocratic regime , and be silence and imprison for show any opposition to the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps . the regime be become increasingly brutal , with at least 230 people execute in Iran during the first three month of this year — double the number of people who be execute in the same period last year . the irgc be a threat to global prosperity and security . it continue to fund external militia group across the middle east . it be particularly concern that Iran , Russia and China have be engage in talk about their nuclear programme . I hope that President Trump ' s firm approach to their action will make they think twice before cause further disruption in the area . once again , I urge the Government to turn their promise into action and to proscribe the irgc in its entirety as a terrorist organisation . I be the chairman of the APPG on end homelessness . we face a rise cost of living , increase unemployment and , more recently , rise in council tax . many more people be be force to live in poverty , and be struggle to afford their rent . rent have rise by 9 % this year , take they out of reach , and force many people into temporary accommodation — or , bad , on to the street , where they have to sleep rough . in Harrow East alone , accord to a recent report from Crisis , a mere 1 . 9 % of housing be deem to be affordable . that be unsustainable and exert considerable pressure on local authority . in more positive news , I be pleased that my third private Member ' s Bill , on homelessness and tackle rough sleeping , recently pass its Second reading unopposed . the Homelessness Prevention Bill focus on use prevention at the core of solve the rough sleeping problem , as it be often too late , much hard and much more expensive to help people once they be already on the street . the Bill would increase the effectiveness of the current duty on local housing authority in England to take reasonable step to help an applicant threaten with homelessness to secure accommodation so that it do not cease to be available to they . I look forward to the next step in secure Government support to achieve Royal Assent . I be also pleased that we soar through the Third reading of the Tobacco and Vapes Bill . I welcome the Government ' s ambition to inherit the goal of the previous Conservative Administration to eradicate smoking from society and tackle youth vaping . I hope that the other place will be just as favourable to ensure that we can swiftly protect future generation from this harm . I look forward to work on the Bill far , scrutinise it and ensure that all appropriate amendment be adopt so that we can achieve a smoke - free society in our lifetime . I pay particular tribute to my friend at action on Smoking and Health , who have be tireless in provide briefing and meeting and host event for colleague and myself . in the first quarter alone , I visit nine school in my constituency , with many more in the pipeline over the next term . I find it enrich and important to engage with tomorrow ' s generation , as many mps will , and to hear the view and idea of student on improve the way in which the country be run . I be constantly astounded by the very high level of education in Harrow , the standard provide and the thoughtful question I be pose by student of all age . every visit have be extremely valuable in different way . some of my most notable visit include a visit to Shaftesbury high school , which be a special educational need school . when we think of people with disability and special need , it be important that we focus not on what they can not do , but on what they can do . at Shaftesbury high school , they have create a coffee hut on site where student learn the skill to be a barista . have taste one of their brew , I can confirm that they will give Starbucks a run for its money . I look forward to another SEND school , which be newly approve by the previous Administration , be create in Harrow . we have the land , the opportunity and the support of the headteacher ; we now need Government support to make it happen . another notable visit — mostly for my staff , who be watch I — be to Glebe primary school , where we have the Holi festival . I be literally cover in colourful powder by the student . it be a particularly joyous occasion , celebrate spring , new life and love . while the Easter recess provide a well - deserve break for all member and their staff , I will be host one of my three annual work experience programme . I will be welcome 19 eager and willing student to my constituency , teach they what it be like to be an MP and how they can get involve in politic . over the year , I have welcome hundred of young people on to the programme , with many go on to work either in my office or elsewhere on the parliamentary estate . it be a great way to engage with constituent and the young generation , inspire they to get involve and learn more about parliamentary process . as I come to the end of my remark , I pay tribute to our great friend Sir David Amess , who so love participate in these debate . may he rest in peace and remain in our thought . I wish everyone a very happy Easter and Passover . I hope that everyone can enjoy some rest and a well - deserve break , enjoy good food , chocolate and good company with love one . with a birthday contribution , I call Alan Strickland . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . now that I know I get to go first , I might have birthday more often . it be a real pleasure to speak in this Easter Adjournment debate . in do so , I pay tribute to the memory of our late colleague Sir David Amess . I be not a Member of the House at the time , but I hear that the number of community organisation that Sir David manage to cram into his speech be the stuff of legend . I be unlikely to match that , but I wish to talk about three organisation in my constituency that make a particular contribution . I start with Spennymoor Town football club . player , fan , club staff and everyone else in Spennymoor be celebrate the club ' s fantastic win against Rochdale at the weekend . win that game mean they will play in the FA trophy final , which will be hold in May at Wembley stadium — that be absolutely incredible . I be really proud of what the club have achieve , and it be brilliant to see they play recently in another fantastic match , so I congratulate everyone involve . I be also hugely grateful to Spennymoor Town football club for the contribution it make to the community . since be found as Spennymoor United in 1904 , the club have be at the heart of the town ' s life . its community meal programme support 100 resident a week ; it engage 300 young people in Tudhoe , Cassop , Fishburn and Spennymoor through its youth work ; and it be widen participation through its disability football scheme so that more people can take part in the sport . I thank the club for that work , congratulate it on its win , and pay particular tribute to chairman Brad Groves , manager Graeme Lee , and manage director Ian Geldard . Spennymoor Town FC be a reminder of what many football club use to be , and what all could and should be : organisation that unite community , support local people and invest in the next generation of player . next , I pay tribute to everyone involve in run Coxhoe village hall and thank they for the wide range of activity they provide . it be a village hall like no other — a thriving community hub use by people of all age , run a community pantry to feed local family and organise maker ' market to sell local produce , as well as fitness class , hear loss support group and many other great activity . I be pleased recently to be invite to its beer festival , for which volunteer Nick Young handmade a bar that hold 40 different draught ale and cider . I feel that it be my public duty to sample the available produce , and I be pleased to report to the House that , from my hazy memory of the evening , all the beer be excellent . stick to the liquid refreshment theme , Coxhoe village hall also host the craft group Pimm ' s and Needles , but there be no need to worry about either of those group get out of hand , because it also host rehearsal of Durham police ' s male voice choir . while many village have see a loss of shop , pub and other facility , the incredible team of volunteer at that hall remind we that it be still possible to have thrive anchor institution at the heart of our community . finally , I would like to recognise friend of the Stockton and Darlington Railway for the leadership it have show . since 2013 , its volunteer have lead the campaign to ensure that the bicentenary of the world ' s first public passenger railway be properly mark . I be really proud that 2025 mark 200 year since Locomotion no . 1 be place on the track of what be now Heighington station in my constituency . that crucial moment be the birth of the passenger rail network , to which all rail around the globe can trace its beginning . the friend group have champion the cause of the railway , encourage investment in local museum and the establishment of a heritage trail , and have help shape the international festival to mark the anniversary that we kick off recently . I place on record my thank to its chair , Niall Hammond , for lead that incredible work . celebrate this anniversary be not just of local interest ; our nation ' s define contribution to the creation of the railway be something that I hope member from across this House will join we in the north - east in recognise this year . it be a matter of particular pride that my home town be not only the birthplace of the railway , but central to their future , with modern battery - power train roll off the production line at the Hitachi plant , which I be delighted to welcome the Transport Secretary back to last week . in closing , I thank everyone involve with Spennymoor Town football club , Coxhoe village hall and friend of the Stockton and Darlington Railway . it be community organisation such as these that make my constituency and our country the thriving place of pride and opportunity they be today . with an immediate five - minute time limit , I call Rebecca Paul . I be pleased to rise today and speak in my first Easter Adjournment debate . I also pay tribute to Sir David Amess , whom unfortunately I never have the pleasure of meeting . today I wish to speak about neighbourhood police and tackle town centre crime — we be due to debate that important topic yesterday , so I think I would take the opportunity to raise it today . it be particularly relevant to Redhill in my constituency , which have be suffer from increase level of antisocial behaviour and crime in recent year . redhill be an amazing town that be the cultural epicentre of our local area . it have undergo significant transformation over the past decade , with new development such as the Rise , which include the Light cinema . as a result , I be pleased to say that more people from far afield be visit and enjoy all that Redhill have to offer . that be a positive thing for our local economy , but at the same time we have see an increase in antisocial behaviour . to address the real issue face , the Safer Redhill initiative be establish . that be a partnership between Surrey police , the office of the police and crime commissioner , Reigate and Banstead borough council and East Surrey YMCA to cut crime and foster pride in the town . the project adopt the College of Policing ' s " clear , hold , build " framework , which be a three - stage approach where offender be clear from the area , and then partner work together to put in place intervention to keep it that way . from drug operation at Redhill train station to plain - clothe officer out at night look for suspicious behaviour , huge amount have be achieve as part of the Safer Redhill initiative . there have be 155 arrest , with a combine prison time of 25 year for local offender , 86 drug seizure — include 10 kg of suspect cocaine — £ 89 , 000 of cash recover and weapon take off the street . I take this opportunity to thank Surrey police , especially Jon Vale , the borough commander , and Lisa Townsend , the police and crime commissioner , for ensure that Redhill get the additional police focus it need at the right time . however , make redhill safe be not all about police action ; it be also about prevention , and that be where East Surrey YMCA have come in . with its qualified youth worker , it have be support local young people at risk of offend or become neet — not in education , employment or training — by give they the support they need and help they to thrive and flourish . with their Y bus , the ymca have be get out and about in redhill to engage with the young people , and I thank it for the important part it have play in make redhill safe and ensure a more positive future for the next generation . Safer Redhill be an inspiring example of what can be achieve by the police , the local council and the charity sector work hand in hand , with all partner bring different skill and expertise to the table , but with the same ultimate goal . I thank and pay tribute to everyone involve . it be wonderful to see the local community start to feel safe in the town centre and business feel more confident about their future in Redhill . however , there be still much to do , and I will speak briefly on some of the other challenge face in Redhill town centre . the first be pavement parking . redhill have a fantastic pedestrianise shopping area , but some people mistake it for a car park and even use it as a cut - through . that behaviour by motorist be disrespectful and downright dangerous . there use to be physical bollard in place to prevent access by car , and those need to be fix , as that would go a long way towards address the issue . but we in this place also have a role to play . we must ensure that unnecessary and antisocial pavement parking , as in the case of Redhill town centre , be tackle and routinely enforce . that type of parking affect wheelchair user , people with visual impairment and those with pushchair , make it difficult for they to get around safely . redhill resident have be raise this issue for year , and we must tackle it . currently , it be not a criminal offence for a car to park on the pavement , which be to ensure that traffic continue to flow on narrow road where pavement parking be the only option , but it be an offence if the vehicle create an unnecessary obstruction . the problem here be what constitute an unnecessary obstruction , and that ambiguity make it incredibly difficult for the police to successfully prosecute offender . as a consequence of the low success rate , we see few instance of the police enforce it . I therefore urge Government Ministers to look at how we can make it clear which type of pavement parking be prohibit and which be not , so that effective enforcement can be deploy by the police or even the local authority , create the necessary deterrent effect . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for allow I to talk for so long about the wonderful town of Redhill and the huge amount of work that have be put into make it safe . I will now bring my remark to a close so that other may contribute . it be a pleasure to take part in this Easter Adjournment debate . for a moment there , I think that the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee , the hon . member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) , be try to cancel Easter , which worry I . he would not just have be haunt by David Amess , believe I . I will talk briefly about gambling , the Gambling Act 2005 and how it be not fit for purpose . I be sick and tired of the number of gambling establishment pop up in my constituency . every time a shop close , a gambling establishment try to put in a bet shop . the Gambling Act 2005 be not fit for the modern age . under the " aim to permit " provision , council must permit licence . I have have so many argument with Brent council that it have lead an amazing campaign , join by 40 other council around the country , call on the Government to reform the Act so that we can protect our high street . this be Brent ' s six - point plan for change : reform the " aim to permit " policy , categorise gambling premise , consider household debt in planning , introduce a statutory levy , ban gambling advertising , and halt liberalisation of adult gaming centre . fix - odd bet terminal be more addictive than heroin , and for every person who be addict to gambling , at least seven other be also affect . there be 81 licensed premise in Brent , and my constituency contain more gambling establishment than supermarket and school , which be ridiculous . I hope that the " English Devolution White Paper : power and partnership " will enable we to reset the relationship between central and local government and ensure that local authority can listen to local resident , include those in Brent East , so that when we say we need no more gambling establish our high street , they will no long be allow . rise — Order . I want to get everyone in , so I be impose an immediate four - minute time limit . dorset be burn . just before midnight last Wednesday , the sky outside my home glow a deep orange . Upton heath , a precious stretch of lowland habitat , be ablaze , in the middle of the ground - nest bird season . a few hour later , just mile away , Canford heath , one of our large and most precious site of special scientific interest , be also go up in smoke , and day before that , Moors Valley country park and forest , just outside my constituency , have also catch fire . these be not isolate incident ; they be frighteningly normal . fire crew from Dorset , Wiltshire , Hampshire and the Isle of Wight work through the night , and we owe they all a debt of gratitude , but more than 70 football pitch ' worth of rare habitat be nevertheless lose in that one fire . it be not even the first time this year . Upton heath burn back in February ; in March part of RSPB Arne be torch , and Canford heath go up in smoke as well . Dorset Wildlife Trust rush to rescue reptile and assess the devastation to the nest of nightjar , woodlark and Dartford warbler . even when their nest and egg survive , their insect food source be go . nature organisation have establish that it will take at least five year for Upton heath to recover from this one incident . dorset be one of the few area in the country where nature be actually make a comeback — partly thank to the Dorset Heaths Partnership — but how long can we keep win this battle if the fire keep come ? so what be cause the fire ? let I be clear : it be we . almost every one of these fire , from Upton heath to Wareham forest , be cause by human activity — a carelessly drop cigarette , illegal campfire or , bad , deliberate arson . as climate change make our landscape hotter and dry , we be live in a perfect storm . fire be more frequent , more intense , and hard to contain . I know the fire service well . my dad , Ray Walls , serve with the London Fire Brigade throughout his career , and I have be a member of the Dorset and Wiltshire fire authority . I have see what the fire crew do — hero run towards danger as we run away — but I have also see how underfunded they be . last year , we lose fire appliance in Poole and Wareham , with further threat to Wimborne and Bere Regis . this be about response time , when family home be at risk or someone be stick in a flood . Dorset and Wiltshire Fire and Rescue have receive a real - term cut in Government funding , and the Fire Brigades Union have say that fire funding be now low than it be a decade ago . a band d household in Dorset pay just £ 1 . 76 a week for its fire service through council tax , but local service have no flexibility to raise more if they want to . we need proper investment . we need drone for wildfire detection ; we need equipment for flood rescue and for bariatric patient ; we need fire crew not just to respond , but to educate , prevent , and prepare . they be do a great job , attend school such as Broadstone middle school , where last month , a fire crew explain the danger to young child , but they be stretch to capacity . I therefore call on the Government to rethink fire service funding so that it be sustainable for the future . let we look at the cause of so many accidental fire : disposable barbecue . they seem harmless , but they have be the spark behind countless wildfire — over 1 , 000 in London in just a year . local authority can and do impose public space protection order , and Dorset be consult on one , but if petrol station and supermarket keep sell barbecue , people will keep buy they . disposable barbecue not only cause fire ; they get leave behind on beach , burn unsuspecting foot and create litter . it be time we consider a ban . as we head into the Easter recess , I encourage people to enjoy Dorset . it be a jewel of the UK , fill with chocolate - box town , stunning beach and plenty of Easter egg hunt at Farmer Palmer ' s and Kingston Lacy — but please leave your barbecue at home . I will end by put on record my thank to all member of the emergency service and the volunteer who work alongside they , include the Royal National Lifeboat Institution , Dorset community first responder and Corfe Mullen ' s Firewise volunteer . may I join other Members in pay tribute to Sir David Amess ? he be a monumental figure in british politic and internationally . bank continue to do well , despite the challenge that ordinary household continue to face . we have have the disappointing news that NatWest be plan to close 53 bank branch this year . nine of those be in Greater Manchester , and one of they be in my constituency . these branch closure will undoubtedly cause uncertainty for staff , and they will have an adverse and disproportionate impact on people with low income , old people , disabled people and people with a low level of literacy , who rely on bank branch . after NatWest Group be rescue in 2008 by a £ 45 billion Government bail - out , I believe that it have a duty of care to british taxpayer and should continue to provide vital community service . I have recently visit several excellent secondary school in my constituency , include Reddish Vale high school , Priestnall school in the Heatons , and Reddish Hall school . it be great to see that the staff , student and teacher be so ambitious about the future , but the funding that our local authority receive could go far . stockport have one of the lowest - fund school system in England , and it have a high proportion of child with education , health and care plan than the national average . my local authority be part of the f40 group of local authority , some of which be the lowest funded . on average , the lowest - fund authority for SEND receive approximately £ 950 per pupil , with the highest fund receive £ 3 , 250 per pupil . in Stockport , the figure be approximately £ 1 , 100 per pupil . I want to see a reallocation of funding for Stockport , and obviously I want to see more funding allocate to child in Stockport . Sky make a major announcement a few day ago , and I have be do some work with my hon . friend the Members for Sheffield Central ( Abtisam Mohamed ) and for Leeds Central and Headingley ( Alex Sobel ) . Sky announce that it be plan to close three contact centre in Sheffield , Leeds and Stockport , put 2 , 000 job at risk , include 545 in Stockport . I have be contact by a large number of Sky employee who be distress by the news , and family be worried about their future . several employee have tell I that before they find out from their employer that the plan be in place , several media outlet , include Sky News , run the story . that be simply not acceptable . my hon . friend and I have have a meeting with Sky , and we be look forward to engage with staff . the loss of these job in Leeds , Sheffield and Stockport be a hammer blow to our town . sadly , on new year ' s day , we have some flooding in my constituency . the Meadow Mill be affect , and I recently have a very productive meeting with the Environment Agency . I pay tribute to the emergency service worker and council staff who help resident on the day of the flood , but I want to see the Government invest more in flood defence , particularly in my constituency , to support resident and business . a number of resident have contact I about the flooding , and it have have a negative impact on quite a new development . I finish by wish you a happy Easter , Madam Deputy Speaker . I also take this opportunity to wish the cleaner who clean our office on the parliamentary estate , our police officer , our catering staff , everyone who work here and , of course , member ' staff a very happy Easter . I rise to talk about South West Water and Pennon Group . I speak today for anyone in Devon and Cornwall who have ever have to walk past a polluted stream , stay out of the sea when visit a beach , or stare at a water bill and wonder , " how do we end up here ? " South West Water , like its parent company , Pennon , have become a byword in the south - west for failure , aloofness and even arrogance . in 2024 , the company dump sewage into our river and sea for over 540 , 000 hour . these spill be suppose to happen only in exceptional circumstance ; in reality , this have be regard as a licence to pollute . if that be not enough , South West Water be now try to flush out our constituent ' wallet , issue bill rise of over 50 % in some case . I should say that Ofwat rule last December that bill can rise by 36 % on average over five year , before inflation . however , that 36 % rise be permit on average bill , and many bill for resident in Devon have rise by much more . Stuart Thompson , who live near Aylesbeare , have find that , even though he be not connect to South West Water ' s sewerage system , his annual bill be now £ 761 , even though last year it be just £ 486 . that be a jump of over 56 % . Stuart be a cancer patient , and his immune system be weaken from treatment . to protect himself , he boil his water before drink it , because he be conscious that South West Water have an outbreak of the Cryptosporidium parasite last year . one can understand his caution , give his weakened immunity . when Stuart try to ring South West Water , he find himself 178th in the queue , and that be not a one - off . Graham Long , who live in the Blackdown hill near Honiton , also try ring South West Water . like Stuart , Graham find on the first occasion that he be 106th in the queue . on another occasion he be 94th , when he try at a quieter time he be 87th , and on a day that be quieter still he be 74th in the queue . that be absolutely crazy from a water company hike people ' s bill in some instance by 56 % . Louise Thompson from Sidmouth contact I in disbelief about her instalment . she do get through to South West Water , and when she raise her concern about her high bill , she be offer a reduction to £ 49 a month , rather than the £ 70 . 32 for which she have be bill . however , she work out that this be because the instalment would be spread over 12 month rather than 10 , so it be a cloak for no bill reduction whatsoever . yet , since privatisation , this company have pay out more than £ 4 . 5 billion in shareholder dividend . South West Water be propose to spend £ 3 . 2 billion on infrastructure improvement , but the cry shame be that it have fail to invest in its infrastructure in year go by . this week , we have learn that the pr side of the business be go to be join by none other than the former MP for East Devon , Simon Jupp . he be go to speak for South West Water , have attack it while he be a Member of Parliament . it be a pleasure to speak in this Easter recess debate , to pay tribute to Sir David and to bring to the attention of the House a movement that have be spread across city and community all over the world . I speak , of course , of yarn bombing . yarn bombing be an urban art form that involve decorate object in public place with knit or crochet yarn . [ interruption . ] the vandalism ! it be a way of transform everyday place into something colourful , creative and alive , and it have take my constituency of Carlisle by storm in the last 18 month . the term " bombing " come from traditional graffiti culture , where street artist would leave their mark in public place . however , unlike spray paint , yarn bombing be soft , as it be about create a sense of warmth and whimsy in an often difficult and challenging world . at a time when we be all too often disconnected from one another by screen and technology , yarn bombing bring a sense of connection . it be an invitation to stop , notice and engage , and it can be playful , light - hearted and fun . in Carlisle , that light - hearted fun start with three lady who begin meet in their local community centre . the follow week and month see the group grow in number . their first project , in May last year , be the yarn bombing of Mayor ' s Drive in Bitts Park , in the centre of Carlisle , for an attraction as part of Carlisle Matters ' s Show and tell event , which be attend by more than 4 , 500 member of the public . next , the Lanes shopping centre , in the city centre , ask the yarn bomber whether they would crochet a large - scale poppy display to celebrate Remembrance Sunday . the result publicity , include that generate by our brilliant community radio station CRFM , prompt an outpouring of support , leave Carlisle Matters with far more poppy than the shopping centre could possibly display — and so it be that the step of the old town hall and the ancient market cross come to be yarn bomb . the yarn bomber be currently work their finger to the bone create yarn bunting and flower in bright colour to decorate the pedestrianise area of our city centre when it reopen after a multi - million pound transformation in a few month ' time . however , yarn bombing be about more than beautiful crochet creation ; it be a genuinely inclusive community activity . one elderly lady tell Carlisle Matters that her husband have recently pass away , but that yarn bombing have give she a purpose again . even I , who can not successfully sew on a button , have dabble — and , may I say , have successfully produce a pom - pom . next time you pass a tree wrap in brightly coloured yarn or a lamp post drape in knit flower , Madam Deputy Speaker , take a moment to appreciate the creativity , the effort and the message behind it . finally , on the subject of meaning and message , I will take a moment to celebrate and thank our church leader during this busy period of Lent and as they approach the celebration and hope of Easter . I give special thank to the Bishop of Penrith , Robert Saner - Haigh , who , for more than 18 month now , have also be act diocesan bishop of the diocese of Carlisle , and for whom Easter will therefore be doubly busy . I conclude by convey my good wish to you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and to Mr Speaker , the other Deputy Speakers and all parliamentary staff for a joyful Easter . I will focus my remark on Wylfa and this Government ' s approach towards nuclear energy . Ynys M ô n have a long history associate with clean nuclear power , with two Magnox reactor construct at Wylfa in the 1960 and come online in 1971 . by 2015 , both reactor have reach the end of their operate life and be shut down . despite promise of a new nuclear project at Wylfa , community on Ynys M ô n have be leave wait and wait , with rwe and e . on pull out of develop a new project at Wylfa in 2012 , follow by Hitachi in 2018 . the Prime Minister have recently say that the world have change , and that " it ' s not the job of government to sit back and hope for the good , or simply manage the moment . " in that spirit , I ask the Government to look seriously at develop the site at Wylfa . it would provide a reliable , clean source of power that could last for up to 80 year , strengthen our energy security at a time when the world be become more uncertain . it be estimate that a large reactor project would create 10 , 000 job during construction in north Wales and 900 long - term job during operation — this be in an area of Wales with some of the low wage . if the Government be serious about generate growth , they must surely see that develop a site at Wylfa be a no - brainer . the Government have change their approach to the planning system for nuclear project . while I recognise the Government ' s aim of change the planning system to make it easy for more site to host nuclear power , that should not come at the expense of progress with development at Wylfa . the removal of the preferred site , include Wylfa , in the Government ' s nuclear planning policy will likely lead to confusion for developer about where they should prioritise their investment . I urge the Government to reinstate Wylfa as a preferred site in the national policy statement for nuclear energy generation . we also have little clarity from the Government about the role of great British Energy in support nuclear energy at Wylfa . I have table an amendment to the great british Energy Bill to ensure that nuclear development would be at the heart of GBE , but that be reject by the Government . as the head of Rolls - Royce have say , the UK Government run the risk of ensure that critical supply chain to support the development of small nuclear reactor will be build elsewhere if they fail to select the company to build they by the end of June . the Government say that they will announce plan for the small modular reactor soon , but when exactly will that be ? the people of Ynys M ô n have have their future put on hold for too long by successive Westminster Governments . this Government need to make a decision on Wylfa and to do so quickly . it be a pleasure to speak in this Easter Adjournment debate , and I wish everyone a happy Easter and a restful break . I rise to speak about the British Coal staff superannuation scheme and the need for the scheme ' s investment reserve to be return to its investor as soon as possible . in Cannock Chase , we be rightly proud of our rich mining heritage . that legacy have shape our community with generation of hard - work man and woman who dedicate their life to the industry that define our area for seven century . follow privatisation , many british Coal employee be part of either the mineworker ' pension scheme or the British Coal staff superannuation scheme . I commend the Government for deliver the long - overdue justice for MPS member in the first Labour Budget for 15 year , transfer the £ 1 . 5 billion investment reserve . I have speak to some of the 1 , 400 mps member in my constituency since the Government keep their manifesto promise , and they be very grateful for the 32 % boost to their pension . however , that have lead to member of the BCSSS call for similar action to be take on their pension scheme . there be 530 member and dependent of the BCSSS in my constituency , who , like their MPS counterpart , do not receive substantial pension . also like the MPS , the BCSSS have return billion to the Treasury — more than enough to guarantee the scheme for its life . surplus sharing be end after an agreement between the trustee and the Government of the day and since then all surplus be due to go to the Treasury . however , the fundamental be the same with a substantial investment reserve , which could boost member ' pension and dependent ' income . very sadly , this be an urgent matter . last year , more than 2 , 400 member of the BCSSS pass away , so it be not hard to see why so many member fear that they will not be able to see this money in their lifetime . these pensioner dedicate their working life to power our country , and it be vital that they receive the thank that such a demanding and important role require . this be a particular passion of those of we represent coalfield constituent , where the vast majority of the 45 , 000 BCSSS member live . I wish to pay tribute to many hon . member for their steadfast campaigning on this matter . we know that , just as it have for the MPS , a return of the BCSSS investment reserve would provide a welcome boost for business in our community , which have be hammer hard than most in recent year . I hope that , in the very near future , we can secure an agreement with the BCSSS trustee , who also deserve credit for their work on this and for foster a transparent and positive relationship with the member that they serve . transfer the final £ 2 . 3 billion payment from the reserve will ensure fair pension for everyone who contribute to the coal industry , whether that be underground , in the office or in the canteen . it be also worth flag the gender inequality angle because , unlike the MPS , a large proportion of BCSSS member be woman as it be the default pension scheme for clerical and catering staff , who do not always get the recognition that they deserve for the huge contribution they make to such a critical industry . reflect the shameful reality face by woman for decade , many be pay significantly less than their male colleague and now they be campaign hard for some restitution for that historic injustice with the return of their scheme ' s investment reserve . I fully understand that the issue be not as simple as duplicate what have be do for the MPS , give that the scheme be set up differently , and I pay tribute to the work of the Minister of State for Industry , who have confirm that BCSSS proposal will be consider . have raise this matter today , I hope that an agreement can be reach in a timely manner . give that we be lose an average of six BCSSS member every day , the soon we can get this do , the more member of our community can see and feel justice . it be a pleasure to speak in this Easter Adjournment debate . I would like to highlight an issue that continue to fill my inbox and , I be sure , the inboxe of colleague across the House : dentistry . I hear from resident on an almost - daily basis about the challenge they face in access NHS dentistry . I hear story of people who have be on a waiting list for year but still have not see an NHS dentist , and people who be in pain but be unable to access treatment . I hear about pensioner be quote thousand of pound for a few filling , and pensioner question why NHS dental treatment be not available to they despite their have pay national insurance contribution for most of their life . I hear of child who need brace that their parent can not afford , and child with special educational need who need support with oral hygiene . unfortunately , there be very little reassurance that I can give . nine month after the general election , we be still wait for meaningful progress to be make on this issue , despite labour ' s manifesto promise to tackle the immediate crisis . statistic from last month show that 98 . 6 % of people in the south - west who try to make an NHS dental appointment in the last 28 day be unsuccessful . in Devon , there be simply not enough NHS dentist . no practice in my constituency be take on new NHS patient . one practice be take over by a new owner last June and still only have one dentist despite inherit the patient list of three dentist . the Government ' s promise to roll out 700 , 000 extra urgent dental appointment be welcome , but it be not a simple solution . NHS Devon be be ask to provide 25 , 000 more urgent care appointment than last year . while we agree that those appointment be much need , it will be a huge challenge for the integrate care board to deliver . NHS Devon have already increase the minimum unit of dental activity rate beyond the nationally mandate uplift figure and invest £ 276 , 000 into the golden hello scheme to attract dentist to the area . however , it tell I that clear feedback from provider show that the current remuneration be not sufficient to sustain baseline activity , let alone incentivise additional activity . there be concern over the impact on routine dental activity and preventive care because of the high rate be pay for urgent care appointment . one local dentist tell I that the lack of NHS worker be down to not just money but the environment they work in . private dentist can give more dedicated attention to patient , have to deal with less red tape and might experience a well work - life balance . however , the vast majority of NHS dentist be self - employ , so even those carry out NHS work be at risk of litigation . if the risk be the same but the reward be less , why would a dentist choose to carry out NHS work rather than private work ? we need to look at how we can change the system to make nhs work more attractive . I have write to the Minister for Care ask what consideration have be give to allow icb to use discretion when provide funding to project that fall outside of contractual regulation , but I be yet to receive a response . I have also ask what plan be in place to allow icb to modify underperform contract , as I understand that the current system do not allow they to make change . with an underspend of around £ 12 million in Devon , flexibility to change contract be key . I be yet to receive a response on that either . private dental care be unaffordable for many people . the cost of living crisis , couple with recent welfare cut under this government , be only worsen outcome . if we do not act now , the situation will continue to worsen and the implication will be even more widespread . oral health be crucial , and oral health for child be even more important . we can not wait any long for this situation to be resolve . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker ; I hope that in future when it get to Easter recess you will be able to fly away with I to Doncaster Sheffield airport once it be reopen . for now , let I shine a light on some of the amazing work be do within my community , start with sport . I be really lucky to have some amazing football club that inspire young child in my local area . we have Rossington football club , Epworth Colts , Bawtry junior , Dunscroft Warriors , Hayfield football club , Club Thorne Colliery and Finningley Harriers junior club . they all provide opportunity for child to develop their skill and build lifelong friendship . it be not just football club that we have . in Thorne , we have the Thornensians Rugby Union football club , which have long be a pillar for the local sporting community . it be found in 1939 , but the club do not play its first game until 1945 due to the war . reg Clayton , its found member , be there for the very first match . at 100 year old , he be still a supporter today . it be a club build on heritage and heart , and every Sunday it proudly host over 100 boy and girl play rugby , nurture the next generation and keep the community spirit alive . I be sure that Reg be very proud . on the Isle of Axholme , we be home to a cricket league that date back to 1936 , when West Butterwick take home the trophy . that heritage still live on in the club that take to the field every summer , week in , week out , support by the volunteer , to whom I pay homage . across our community , we be fortunate to have remarkable individual and organisation work tirelessly to support those in need . local hero Vera Owen — she be also our midwife , as I tell my young child — be one of they . week in , week out , she collect surplus food from supermarket for the food bank and lead on fundraise effort , all without ask for recognition . today , we be give she that recognition . similarly , Mary Macmillan at Doncaster food bank run a campaign to provide basic facility such as shower , affordable laundry service and cooking amenity , not just for those face homelessness — that be really important to I because , as you be aware , Madam Deputy Speaker , I be homeless for a period as a child — but for family in temporary accommodation and the wider vulnerable community . I will take a moment to recognise the tireless work of our local councillor . in Thorne and Moorends , Mark Houlbrook , Susan Durant and Joe Blackham have deliver real result for the community . they fight to keep Thorne south station open after the pandemic , and they offer lot of wonderful local service for our resident ; they have also be do work on the Thorne leisure centre . in Rossington , Bawtry and Austerfield , Ken Guest , Bob Anderson and Rachael Blake have show what commit , community - focus representation look like . over the last four year , they have secure vital road safety measure , include a zebra crossing at Bawtry and a pelican crossing at Rossington , and have make sure that it be affordable for everybody to swim with a £ 1 swim scheme . finally , our Hatfield councillor Glynis Smith and Linda Curran have work with real dedication to support our local people and strengthen community life . they have back a range of grassroots initiative and be make a real difference , include through their support for the Hatfield library , which have be run by brilliant volunteer like Sue Lowndes for over a decade . child ' s event be hold there every school holiday , free of charge . they have also help to fund Dunscroft Together , which run a youth club , a safe and welcome place for young people . they have also host celebration for Dunsville community centre ' s 50th anniversary . lot go on there , include the Mark Guest Taekwondo school . overall , I want to thank those incredible community champion for everything they do , day in , day out . their dedication , compassion and tireless effort remind we just how special our constituency be , and how strong we be when we come together to support one another . have a very happy Easter . it be a pleasure to speak in a debate that pay tribute to the memory of Sir David Amess . like my hon . friend the Member for South Devon ( Caroline Voaden ) , I want to raise an issue that be absolutely fill my email inbox : the collapse of NHS dentistry in Taunton and Wellington , and across Somerset — indeed , across the whole country . in 2022 , when I first do a survey on access to NHS dentist in Taunton and Wellington , over half the respondent report that they be unable to access an NHS dentist . since then , thing have get bad and bad . in the month since the general election last year , I have receive hundred of email about the issue . it feel like a tidal wave of distress . People be struggle with pain , face unaffordable bill for private treatment , or simply give up on dental care altogether . the Government ' s announcement of 700 , 000 extra dental appointment be of course welcome , but as the British Dental Association have point out , that amount to no more than about two extra appointment per NHS dentist per month — and that be only when there be an NHS dentist . in dental desert like Somerset and my constituency , there be barely any NHS dentist leave , so that announcement will not have the effect that we would all like . that be particularly so because the Government ' s figure be a real underestimate of the position in Taunton and Wellington . in February , the Government say that one in four people be unable to see an NHS dentist , but as I say , the survey that I carry out in 2022 show that just over one in two in my constituency could not access nhs dentist , and I be sure that the proportion who can not access an NHS dentist have only increase . today I launch a new survey of constituent , school and local dental practice to expose the real cost . as a result of the collapse in dental service , people — child and eligible adult — be pay for what should be free treatment . the survey be launch at about two o ' clock this afternoon , and I be grateful for the fact that we be allow mobile in the Chamber , because I be tell at the beginning of the debate that there be 50 response to the survey , but during it , there have be another 16 . the issue have clearly hit a nerve , and it really affect people in my constituency . one constituent tell I that he have to spend more than £ 1 , 000 to get treatment for his child ' s dental need . treatment for all child should be free on the NHS , but they be not get it . the entitlement mean nothing if there be no NHS dentist to go to . too many in our area face the choice of pay up or live in pain . bill often run into hundred of pound , which people can ill afford , give the effect of recent month on the cost of living . this be not just about tooth ; it be about people ' s dignity , their health , and the way they feel about their life and themselves . I urge the Government not to underestimate the scale of the problem , particularly in area such as Somerset . we need urgent reform and urgent action . the broken dental contract really need to be renegotiate , and we need a proper incentive to bring dentist back into the NHS . I hope the Government will look closely at the evidence that my constituent be send in , and will work with I and other to make the situation well . with that , as we look forward to eat lot of chocolate and be in need of a great many more dental appointment , I wish all my colleague across the House , and the staff , security and police officer who look after we so well , a very happy Easter . with Easter approach , thought often turn to egg . my favourite be Cadbury Creme Eggs or possibly Smarties one , but the egg that I want to talk about this afternoon be those that chicken produce , and which be sell in our supermarket . although the majority of whole egg sell in UK supermarket be now from cage - free environment , shockingly , one in five hen still spend its life cramp in a cage . when battery cage be ban , in many place , so - call enriched cage be introduce to replace they . I have to say , however , that the word " enrich " be a bit of a misnomer . yes , they be slightly well than the traditional battery cage — for example , they have to have a perch — but I think " enriched " make it sound a bit like they be on a yoga retreat or something . the marketing people absolutely earn their wage that day . the reality be absolutely nothing of the sort . " confinement cage " might be a well description ; they be small than a piece of a4 paper and have minimal room for bird to spread their wing . they restrict natural behaviour ; hen can not properly dust - bathe or forage , and be all subject to frustration and stress . I welcome the £ 22 - million fund from the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs to transition to high welfare standard for hen . however , I also worry about low - welfare import that undercut our UK farmer , especially of powdered and liquid egg , which be often find in product such as a quiche or a hot cross bun at this time of year , and which often come from country with low animal welfare standard . turn back to shell egg , if hon . member buy a dozen egg and plan to tuck into a soft - boil egg this Easter , I urge they to check where the egg come from . they all have a code print on their shell , and the first character will tell they where they be from . if the character be a three , it mean that the bird be cage . anyone can choose to vote with their foot , support our hen hero , and make an eggs - traordinary difference . stick briefly with the Easter theme , as the Easter getaway approach , I want to give a shout - out to the UK coach sector , which be often the unsung hero of holiday travel . every year , 23 million people travel by coach to visit attraction , attend event and explore our region . coach passenger spend £ 8 . 3 billion annually in local economy , support hotel , restaurant and tourism attraction . give the climate emergency , it be important to note that a single coach can remove up to 50 car from the road , cut congestion and emission . I hope that Ministers in the Department for Transport will consider some of the thing that the coach industry be ask for , such as be able to use bus lane by default , more robust datum from transport authority on the coach sector , more drop - off , pick - up and parking facility , and allow the coach sector funding similar to the zero emission bus regional area funding we have have for the bus sector . it be , after all , a crack industry . I would like to say , in my remain 30 second , that I think this will be a particularly good Easter , because the clock have already change , so we have plenty of daylight to celebrate it in . I end by wish you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and all hon . member a very happy Easter . it be great to speak in this Easter debate , and I would like to use this opportunity to thank a handful of fantastic organisation from across the constituency . it be really difficult to pick out a few from across Keighley , Ilkley , Silsden and the Worth Valley , an area that I be incredibly proud to represent . I start with Joze school of dance . it be a fantastic dance organisation base in Ilkley , deliver perform art training to young people . it have be go for 20 year , and I be lucky enough to watch its 20th anniversary performance last weekend . I want to say a huge thank you to Jo , who have dedicate 20 year of her life to provide a great deal of confidence to young people from not only Ilkley but the wide area , enable young people to become much well at dancing , singing and choreography . there be two individual I want to give a big shout - out to : Masie Swann , who be recognise as be a star performer , and Blythe Dale , who be winner of the " Heart of Joze school of dance " award last weekend . move on to sport , I want to give huge congratulation to Silsden Association Football Club , who be this month crown champion of the Northern Counties East premier football league after beat Pickering Town 2 - 1 . this be an incredible achievement in what be the Cobbydalers ' 120th anniversary year , and it mean that for the first time a local club from our part of West Yorkshire will be play just three division below the Football League — a remarkable feat . I confess that I can not be a Cobbydaler because I be definitely still an off come ' un when it come to live in Silsden , but the whole town be incredibly proud . I wish to put on record my great thank for the amount of effort that the team be put into not only raise the profile of Silsden but support the many young people across Silsden . I put on record a huge thank you to Keighley Albion , who have also make wave this year by reach the National Conference League after a long absence of over 20 year . this be one of our famous rugby league team . I know how much of a fan you be of rugby league , Madam Deputy Speaker , so I hope that you will join I in wish Keighley Albion all the good in the month ahead . I also look forward to work with they in the forthcoming month to secure well sport facility , because they have grow so much by support 450 child from across Keighley and the wide area . I want to work with they as strongly as I can to get a well sport facility for they and all the young people that they support across Keighley . my hon . friend be give a passionate speech about his constituency , and be demonstrate yet again why he be such a powerful champion for Keighley and Ilkley . do he agree that the volunteer who run these group be an important part of our community , and that the skill that they teach young people stay with they for the rest of their life ? absolutely . that be why it be so important that all member across the House support grassroot sporting organisation and the sporting facility at their heart . they drive confidence in our young people , whatever sport it may be . I also put on record my thank to the Ilkley business awards committee , which , every year without fail , put on an excellent business award in Ilkley , recognise all those business across the LS29 postcode that go above and beyond . such event showcase the brilliant independent business across our area . I thank in particular Julia Forrester , who lead the Ilkley business award committee , for the continue work that she and the other committee member do to put Ilkley on the map . have be rate the good place to live in the United Kingdom back in 2022 , Ilkley be officially rate by the Sunday Times as still the good place to live in the whole of the north of England . it be a very proud place and I be lucky to represent it . finally , in my remain 30 second , I would like to give a huge shout - out to my incredibly brave young sister , Becky . after an 18 - month battle with breast cancer , she have her last chemotherapy treatment today , and prospect be look good . on that note , I wish all member across the House , and all House staff , who do a great deal to look after we all , a very happy Easter . it be a pleasure to speak in the Easter Adjournment debate . the matter that I would like to raise before we adjourn be the importance of the devolution and local government reform be spearhead by the Government . labour ' s plan to simplify structure , cut duplication , reduce waste and slash cost , while give local leader the tool they need to deliver growth for their area , raise living standard in every part of the country in a way that be directly accountable to resident , be welcome and long overdue . to understand why devolution and reorganisation be desperately need , we need look no far than Conservative - lead Derbyshire county council . almost every step of the way , that council have fail to deliver for my resident in High Peak . derbyshire conservative have all but take the council to bankruptcy . on their watch , Derbyshire have the ignominy of have be dub the pothole capital of the UK by the RAC . child with special educational need and disability , and their family , have be shamefully let down . derbyshire county council ' s damn Ofsted report find widespread and systemic failing . old people in our community have be leave distraught by plan to close our care home and day care centre . indeed , Queens Court day centre in Buxton be close last week with no notice . with such a record , it be no wonder that , in the immediate aftermath of the Government ' s announcement for local government reform , the derbyshire Conservatives try to cancel the local election and put in a proposal for a council cover the whole of Derbyshire and its 800 , 000 resident . I be glad that the proposal be reject by the Government , and that the council ' s plan to cancel the local election in May be refuse . derbyshire conservative can run from the voter , but they can not hide . I say that High Peak be unique because it sit in the middle of three region with huge economic potential , but rather than be an asset to our area , that position mean that we have all too often be overlook . the call from the Government to reorganise should have be meet with creative thinking , through the lens of what be good for our area . I have listen to student in Glossop who go to college in Greater Manchester , and their family ; to commuter in New Mills who want well transport link ; to old people in Buxton whose Derbyshire identity be what matter most to they ; and to the people in Hope valley who look to Sheffield for job and healthcare . I be back Labour - lead High Peak borough council ' s plan for a north derbyshire unitary authority , and the plan of East Midlands Mayor Claire Ward for a peak partnership that bring together the combined authority of Greater Manchester , South Yorkshire and the East Midlands , which be in the interest of High Peak . I hope that , as both proposal be develop over the come month , they will help we to address the unique , varied and economic public service need of all our community , include the Hope valley line , Snake pass , the extension of the Bee network , and well and fair access to Greater Manchester and South Yorkshire hospital and further education . in the proposal for a north derbyshire unitary authority and for the peak partnership of three Labour mayor , we have the building block to make life well for the resident of High Peak , with more integrated transport , job and investment , and improve access to healthcare and education . the crux of that reorganisation speak to the heart of the Government ' s mission to drive economic growth and deliver opportunity for all . as a regular participant in these end - of - term debate , I usually speak about three or four different subject , but today I want to return to an issue that I have raise on a number of occasion in the House over the last few week : the future of the steelwork at Scunthorpe . the Scunthorpe site be the equivalent of 1 , 133 Wembley football pitch . it extend well beyond the bound of Scunthorpe , into my constituency , and employ hundred of my constituent and many more beyond . I have spend all my life live in the Grimsby and Cleethorpes area . sadly , Cleethorpes be no long part of my constituency , but I have gain a ward in Grimsby as a result of last year ' s reorganisation . I be old enough to have witness the decline of Grimsby follow the loss of its core industry : deep - sea fishing . member across the House will have have similar experience with town that have lose their core industry , be it shipbuilde or mining , and it be a massive change . it affect the heritage , the culture and the health of the local community . the increase burden of chronic illness , low life expectancy , reduce productivity , increase healthcare cost and low community cohesion be some of the issue that arise when a town lose its core industry . I appeal yet again to the Government to show a sense of urgency . there be a strong likelihood that the furnace will shut down in a few week ' time , because the owner , Jingye , have cancel the order for raw material . if that happen and the furnace go cold , just reinstate those furnace will cost £ 250 million . we do not want to get into that situation . I know the Government do not want Scunthorpe to lose the steelwork on their watch . it be vital for the nation ' s security , apart from anything else . unless action be take in the very near future , I be afraid 2 , 700 direct job loss could occur , and there would be thousand more in the supply chain . yet again , my hon . friend be demonstrate what a powerful champion he be for his constituency . do he share my concern that this be about more than just job , because if we lose the ability to produce our own steel , that be a national security concern ? absolutely . I have speak with a number of people involve in the military , and they be very concerned about the future . do we , as a still significant manufacturing nation , want to lose the capacity to produce our own steel and become the only G7 country in that position ? North Lincolnshire council , ably lead by Councillor Rob Waltham , who have be in China to meet the current owner of Scunthorpe steelwork , have put together contingency plan include the creation of an AI growth zone and a green growth zone . those project , if allow to continue , could result in 10 , 000 new construction job and 1 , 200 new job on site and safeguard 4 , 000 in the supply chain . moreover , the AI growth zone could lead to £ 15 billion in private business investment . those be all vital to northern Lincolnshire , irrespective of what may happen to the steelwork . the Humber region more widely be very significant for a whole host of energy project involve hydrogen , sustainable aviation fuel , carbon capture and the like . it be vital for the Government to recognise that they must support these new project , irrespective of whether there be job loss in the steel sector . I close by urge the Government to show a real sense of urgency on this . as I say in my urgent question yesterday , the Government have to nationalise the industry , to give it breathe space , to attract new private sector investment and to keep the job of those thousand of people . Happy Easter to you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and to all the staff and member . a few week ago my barber , Ev , send I a DM . it be a video from three lad in Ilkeston in my constituency , and it be go viral . Owen , Harrison and Roy be talk about how life be for they as teenage boy in 2025 . they talk about not have anything to do , about the youth club have shut down , and about get in trouble with the police because they do not have anything to do . the boy talk about trouble at home . they have lose a mum , they talk about tough childhood , and about how they support each other through their life . they talk about how they just want to see each other succeed , and the last line of the video from one of they be " these will be my boy forever . " Owen , Harrison and Roy remind I of my own time grow up , and of my own boy . throughout my time in school , and indeed well into my mid - 20 , I take no interest in politic , because I feel it be not something I have a stake in . what I do care about , though , be the group of friend I grow up with . I first properly meet my boy at a party when I be 16 , at Joe ' s house in north Cardiff . I be sit awkwardly in a corner , too uncool to talk to anyone beyond the one or two people I come along with , and generally afraid of the significantly more socially adept group of teenager around I . as I get to know they , though , and as I become one of they , I feel that I have finally find a tribe — young man with share interest in heavy music , in Skate 3 , and in make fun of each other as often and as brutally as possible . as we grow , we do all the thing that young man do : we one - up each other , we drink , we argue — we be immortal . one day , everything change . on Wednesday 10 October 2018 , Andrew send a message to our group chat . it start : " boy , I think it ' s time you should know . Tom be involve in a very bad accident at work yesterday . he get trap under a camper van . he ' s not do so well , he ' s in intensive care currently after have surgery last night . " Tom — Tomas Shackson — work with his dad in their autobody business , and he have a terrible accident indeed . later that week , Tom die of his injury . in many way , Tom ' s death cause we all to reassess everything . we find ourselves face our own mortality and the unexpected , irreplaceable loss of someone who we have call a brother for most of our life up until that point . the way we interact with each other change , our interpersonal relationship deepen , and we suddenly have to be there for each other in way that we hadn ' t even consider before . we start talk about our own happiness , and I feel that we collectively open up about our own struggle , and thing that our prior macho bravado have stop we from share previously . to this day , I have a note pin to my kitchen wall from Dan , which he send I in the post after Tom ' s accident . it say : " here if you need anything , brother . " none of the boy have ever even send I any post before , but every time I see it , it remind I that Dan , and all my boy , be indeed here for I , anytime I need they . in the year since Tom ' s death , our once bravado - fuel group have evolve . we learn to talk about our issue , and share and develop a new masculinity , base on mutual support and love for each other . I tell my friend I love they every time I see they , and we have grow to become well - rounded adult , with partner , wife , child and family that we know Tom would be very proud of . I give a special shout - out to Joe today , who this past weekend , after 15 year of graft , become a consultant hand surgeon . we be incredibly proud of he . all of that be why I think it be so important for those of we who have be on such a journey to share our story with boy , like Owen , Harrison and Roy , who be grow up today . with the rise of increasingly toxic online culture , and with so much social medium encourage boy to take increasingly hateful stance , spread vile misogyny and the lie that woman and girl be somehow beneath they , it be incumbent on we all to share the positive that can be gain by open up and be there for each other , as boy and as man , and let each other know that we be here for one another , whenever we need it . I wish briefly to cover three thing in this debate . first , the world as we know it have change drastically in the nine month since the general election . to our constituent , those threat can sometimes feel abstract and distant , but we know that it be our constituent who will feel the pain in their pocket , and it be probably those who have the least who will be rock most by the destruction and chaos we see all around we . some of those threat have mean that difficult decision have have to be take , include the reduction in overseas aid to fund necessary increase in defence spending over this Parliament and the next . I remain of the opinion that even those increase might not be enough to counter the new security threat that we face . if this period be to be remember by history as one of instability and global shift , let it also be remember as a time when we endeavour to build a new foundation that help future generation to succeed and build a well world . our response to those threat must be to invest in our young people and their aspiration , opportunity and skill . not only will necessary increase in defence spending support thousand of job , but as necessity be the mother of invention , the new condition create an unmissable opportunity for investment in innovative engineering and high - tech skill that can be apply in other sector . in my constituency , those opportunity be widespread , whether at the port of Rosyth , which be increasingly become a hub for renewable , or at the hope for redevelopment of the Longannet generating station . my second point follow from a consideration of that future : the imperative to invest in skill . we must invest in skill for the long term by work well with further education establishment , such as Fife college in my constituency , and build well link with business . sadly , in Scotland that link with business be lacking , and a stall skill agenda be fail our talented and ambitious young people . business of all size in my constituency have tell I that they be increasingly use , or consider use , City & Guilds or similar training module in England , and not even bother to have discussion with the Scottish Qualifications Authority , such be the long , laborious and bureaucratic process . the Scottish National party ' s abject failure on skill will have long - term implication for young people across the country . if we be to make the future truly one for the next generation , we must support those young people to build that future . that firstly mean stop demonise young people , who have struggle with more once - in - a - lifetime crisis by this stage of their life than any other generation , from credit crunch and pandemic to political instability and uncertainty at home and around the world . they have see service and support for they eradicate , chance to get on the housing ladder vanish , and secure long - term employment become a pipe dream , and all while wealth sit with the generation of their parent and grandparent . this Parliament must not continue the trend of give only to the old generation . without engage and energise young people , there will be no money leave by the time people of my age hope to retire . young people be not ask for mango sorbet and Malbec , but for respect and understanding , and that be what we should be give they . antisocial behaviour and crime be not the preserve of the young ; alcohol and drug misuse be rise in people of old generation , not among young people ; and tolerance of other be much high among young people than among people my age and old , as everyone in this House will attest from our encounter on social medium and our dealing with some constituent . as we enter the recess , we should remember that we be still very much in the early stage of this Parliament , and yet we have already see unprecedented turmoil and change that be shape our future . while much of that might be outside the control of the Government , it be vital that our response be to enshrine in place the right foundation , build with confidence and commitment , for the future of young people and our country , because the two be indivisible . if we do not leave this place in a well condition for those who follow we , then all that we strive for be , after all , for naught . I associate myself with the warm word about Sir David Amess . it be a privilege to speak in my first Easter recess debate , although this be not my first time in this place — in fact , it be my 101st . I want to say a huge thank you for the warm and welcome reception that I have receive across my constituency . as mps , visibility be vital if we be truly to represent the people who put we here , as well as those who do not . we need to understand the issue that our constituent face and the challenge that they need help with , and we can only do that when we be present . I welcome the way that my constituent have challenge I and interact with I at my surgery , coffee morning and " pint with your MP " event . since July , my team and I have help over 2 , 000 people in Portsmouth . as we approach Easter , one press issue that my constituent be about to face be a crunch in their household budget , with a huge rise of nearly 50 % in Southern Water bill , which be project to rise on average by around £ 94 by 2030 . that huge hike will hit everyone , but it will hit low - income household the hard , and many distressed constituent have contact I . Southern Water offer a social tariff , the " essential tariff " , that give a 45 % reduction to eligible customer , but if bill be to rise by 50 % , that reduction be effectively wipe out . clean , safe water be not a luxury , yet Southern Water be ask people to pay more , while provide a less reliable service . it be not just household that be affect , but business . for example , South Coast Wakepark in Hilsea , which be a great local business , have lose 88 consecutive trading day through poor water quality . in addition to the continued dumping of sewage into our sea and the repeat flooding , that be affect our business . we can not accept a system in which customer be foot the bill for decade of under - investment while water company executive pocket million in bonus . I call for an urgent expansion and deepening of social tariff . we need clear and proactive help for those who be struggle to pay , easily accessible compensation scheme for business , and full transparency on how the increase in bill be be spend . we need a concrete plan to tackle sewage dumping , fix leak infrastructure and reverse year of environmental neglect . Southern Water have one of the bad record on pollution in this country . my constituent be rightly ask why we should pay for more when we be get so much less . the people of Portsmouth deserve so much more . as I have say , every day I get to see amazing thing and to meet amazing people , charity , business and individual across my city , and I get to bring their story , concern , challenge and celebration here to help to find solution and improve our city . it remain extremely humbling and a huge privilege . as one of the final speaker today , I wish all those in this House and across my constituency a very happy Easter . I look forward to see many of they and my family during the next few week . I take this opportunity to wish Archie Whitfield the very good of luck . he be run to every single premier league ground and do the London marathon the next day in memory of his dad , Dave Whitfield , to raise money for the Brain Charity . finally , I give huge thank to all the wonderful church and the two cathedral in my city , which will continue to serve our community during the Easter period . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . it be a pleasure to take part in this Easter Adjournment debate . I always find that these end - of - term debate really enlighten I about fellow member of the House , their constituency and the issue that be important to their constituent . before I talk about something close to my own constituency and heart , I associate myself with the contribution of the hon . member for Reigate ( Rebecca Paul ) and the thank that she give to Surrey police . my own borough team in Guildford have be fantastic , just as hers have be , in support our town centre by deal with antisocial behaviour . I note the absolutely crack contribution and egg - cellent Easter pun from the hon . member for Dunstable and Leighton Buzzard ( Alex Mayer ) . I will stop there with the Easter pun and move on to my constituency . I will use my time to highlight an issue in my constituency that have both national and local significance . I hope that action on the issue will not just resolve it in Guildford , but help to drive long - term change in the way we support charity and business during multi - year infrastructure project . many member will be aware of the extensive redevelopment work take place at junction 10 of the M25 , near the Royal Horticultural Society garden at Wisley . the redevelopment work start in November 2022 and be due to finish in summer 2025 , but sadly it have be confirm recently that that will not be the case ; they will finish in approximately spring 2026 . that be four year of disruption for local resident and business . ultimately , the project should improve the junction , but — it be a very big " but " — there have be serious consequence for RHS Wisley and our much - love local caf é , Ockham Bites , alongside frustration and disruption for local resident in village around the junction and everyone who have have to travel through it . while the two place be very different in scale , both have see a significant loss . Ockham Bites be lose £ 600 a day , and RHS Wisley predict that by the end of the project it will have lose £ 11 million . these financial loss be highlight in the early day of the project but dismiss on the basis that current legislation compensate only on the value of property , not for loss of business . for RHS Wisley , the loss have have far - reach consequence . plan for new arboretum have be delay , fund for scientific research have be reduce and community outreach programme have be scale back . the impact go beyond my constituency and the garden itself through to the community around Guildford and other RHS site across the country . they be be force to consider cut to training opportunity , with a project 10 % reduction in workplace student horticulturalist position over the next two year . I be sure that member of the House will be very sad to hear all those thing about RHS Wisley . I know that resident in my constituency , as well as people across the country , feel strongly about this issue . a petition that be currently live have 92 , 000 signature , and that number keep increase . I pause to thank my colleague Baroness Benjamin , who have be highlight this matter in the other place , for the answer she have gain from member of the House of Lords on the issue surround the problem at RHS Wisley . will the hon . member for Wellingborough and Rushden ( Gen Kitchen ) encourage the Transport Secretary to respond to my request to meet I and representative of RHS Wisley ? return to Ockham Bites and its fantastic cake and tea , it have suffer big financial loss for a small business . there have also be problem with water , and all those thing combine have force the owner to make serious personal and professional adjustment , include relocate their home and deal with heighten stress level . these two business ' story be of very different scale , but they highlight a serious flaw in current legislation . we should not be leave small business , charity and other organisation struggle financially and potentially fail due to multi - year infrastructure project . not only be those organisation the lifeblood of our community ; they be fundamental to our economic success . I hope that Ministers will agree to meet I and work to find a way to support those business , and commit to review the legislation to ensure that their story be not repeat and that future multi - year infrastructure project be deliver without leave key part of our local economy and community behind . I want to close on a positive note in this afternoon ' s fantastic debate by give a cheeky little encouragement to everyone in the Chamber , if they have not yet experience RHS Wisley or their local RHS garden , to please go and enjoy they during the Easter recess . I also echo my hon . friend the Member for Mid Dorset and North Poole ( Vikki Slade ) in encourage member and the public , when enjoy the great outdoors , to be fire safe . finally , I hope that all member of this House and all the staff , security and police have a restorative Easter , and I thank the hon . member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) for lead the debate . it be an honour to respond to this debate on behalf of his Majesty ' s official opposition . have spend just over a year and a half in the Government Whips Office before the election , during which time the long speech I be able to make in this Chamber be probably to move that this House do now adjourn , today be a chance to catch up on lose time . several member have pay kind tribute to our late and much - miss former colleague Sir David Amess , who of course always light up these occasion with his wit , charm and good humour . as I say , he be hugely miss , and our thought continue to be with his family . in his absence , my hon . friend the Member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) , the Chairman of the Backbench Business Committee , do a good job of open the debate and run through a number of the issue that be dear to his constituent . he have further his reputation as a champion — a doughty champion , of course ; if I do not add the " doughty " , it will not make the Google search — of local transport connection and step - free access at station . of course , he can always be rely on to give we a lift . my hon . Friend mention his experience at the Glebe school , where he be cover in powder . have catch a little bit of the highlight of the new series of " Celebrity Big Brother " , I do not know whether they be currently make their service available to our former colleague from Lichfield . my hon . friend the Member for Harrow East also allude to his love of Tottenham Hotspur football club , although it be not clear whether that be a declaration of an interest , a confession or a plea in mitigation . in any event , what be the chance that he would be follow immediately by the hon . member for Newton Aycliffe and Spennymoor ( Alan Strickland ) , whose local team actually have win silverware — not just this century , but this season ? the hon . Member speak about the value of grassroots sport club to their community , a view that I think be share across the Chamber . he also speak about his dedication to public duty in sample local beer . have be on the armed force parliamentary scheme with he and visit a number of military basis , I know that that be a public duty that he take most seriously , and not just when in his constituency . my hon . friend the Member for Reigate ( Rebecca Paul ) speak about the wonderful Safer Redhill initiative — a fantastic initiative from an excellent police and crime commissioner work together with the local charity sector and local organisation . the hon . member for Brent East ( Dawn Butler ) speak about the negative impact that gambling establishment can have on town centre , which member from all part of the House will be able to identify with . the hon . member for Mid Dorset and North Poole ( Vikki Slade ) tell we that Dorset be burn , particularly at Upton heath . whether it be through carelessness or arson , these fire cause enormous damage , as well as impact on public service . I be a little more wary than she be about reach for a ban , but clearly people need to be accountable for their action . the hon . member for Stockport ( Navendu Mishra ) speak about bank branch closure and fair funding for school . as a newly Staffordshire Member of Parliament since the boundary change , I know that a lot of my school in South Staffordshire will be sympathetic with that issue . the hon . member for Carlisle ( Ms Minns ) speak about yarn bombing , which be a fantastic phenomenon that we see in so many of our village . it be not quite in my constituency , but I see a knit post box topper of George the station cat just outside Stourbridge Junction station as I be come through at the weekend . the hon . member for Ynys M ô n ( Llinos Medi ) be continue the excellent work do by her predecessor to fight for the Wylfa nuclear power station . as she say , it should be a no - brainer , and it have to be a core part of our clean energy mix go forward . the hon . member for Cannock Chase ( Josh Newbury ) speak about mineworker ' pension , which be obviously an issue of concern for many in traditional mining area such as Staffordshire . an issue that probably go even more widely across the country be NHS dental treatment , which the hon . member for Taunton and Wellington ( Gideon Amos ) and for Honiton and Sidmouth ( Richard Foord ) raise . as they say , with Easter come up , thing might be get slightly bad , but routine and urgent dental care can be too hard to access in many part of the country . this time last year , the previous Government announce a plan to try to do something about that , with £ 200 million of funding for 2 . 5 million more NHS dentist appointment , new patient payment and one - off payment to tackle dental blackspot . we need the Government to continue that work and to step up and make sure that all our constituent can receive the care they need . the hon . member for Doncaster East and the Isle of Axholme ( Lee Pitcher ) speak about community sport club , but also the local hero we be all so proud of in our own constituency . what be the good part of be a Member of Parliament ? I think it be the chance to meet some of these people whose work often go unacknowledged and to make sure that they get , if not the recognition they deserve , at least an element of recognition . my hon . friend the Member for Keighley and Ilkley ( Robbie Moore ) make a fantastic contribution about the work do by local dance school , which be important . for a lot of young people grow up , access to dance school be not just for people who be join the Royal Ballet . for boy and girl in every constituency , it help with physical development as well as develop social skill . he also speak of his own sport club , Silsden AFC and Keighley Albion rugby league football club . the hon . member for High Peak ( Jon Pearce ) speak passionately about the advantage of small , more localise unitary authority over county - wide super council . I hope the Government show the flexibility to move below their 500 , 000 threshold where appropriate . my hon . friend the Member for Brigg and Immingham ( Martin Vickers ) speak about the social as well as the economic impact when an area lose its core industry . we hope that the Government will show flexibility on net zero to support the worker of Scunthorpe . I would like to refer to every speech , Madam Deputy Speaker , but sadly I do not have time to do so . let I end by wish you , and member of the House and the House staff , a very blessed , happy and peaceful Easter recess . it be a pleasure to close the debate . I will try to do so very swiftly , Madam Deputy Speaker , and I wish you and all those listen a very happy Easter . let I begin by pay tribute to the hon . member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) , and thank he and all the member of the Backbench Business Committee for the work that they do in bring so many important issue to the notice of the House . let I also pay tribute to the late Sir David Amess , whose plaque on the wall behind I be a reminder of his year of service to his Southend constituency , the House , and the tradition of this debate . while my time in the House do not coincide with his , my esteemed colleague often share story of his campaign , and I have great admiration for the work that he do on animal welfare . I thank all 20 of the member who have speak this afternoon about a range of subject close to their heart . I will do my good not to butcher the name of their constituency , and to summarise their argument . I thank the hon . member for Harrow East for his good - natured Easter pun , his busy parliamentary and constituency work , and his campaign for step - free access for Stanmore , his local underground station . let I also say that we strongly support a sustained ceasefire and a two - state solution . I wish the hon . Gentleman well personally for Passover . I wish my hon . friend the Member for Newton Aycliffe and Spennymoor ( Alan Strickland ) a happy birthday . I thank he for tell we all about Spennymoor Town football club , and congratulate the team on its win and on be a top team for community work . his local community village hall be clearly something to which we should all aspire . I also congratulate the friend of the Stockton & Darlington Railway on their bicentennial anniversary . I be sorry to hear from the hon . member for Reigate ( Rebecca Paul ) about the antisocial behaviour in Redhill . she and the Surrey police force be clearly do a crack job in crack down on such behaviour , and she be also a champion for Safer Redhill and for the partnership work that she highlight . my hon . friend the Member for Brent East ( Dawn Butler ) speak about gambling and its effect on family . representative of the organisation Gambling with life come to see I in my constituency of Wellingborough and Rushden to talk about the suicide of one of my constituent , so I know how hard family and other can take this . the hon . member for Mid Dorset and North Poole ( Vikki Slade ) pay tribute to the fire crew who have work tirelessly to tackle the blaze in her constituency . I be hearten to hear about the wildlife recovery organisation . I be glad to say that responsibility for the fire service have move from the Home Office to the Ministry for Housing , Communities and Local Government , and I be sure that the hon . Lady will be do a great deal more to question the Ministry about that . I be sad to hear from my hon . friend the Member for Stockport ( Navendu Mishra ) that people will be deny access to cash as a result of the NatWest closure . I know that , as a local champion , he will be campaign actively . however , I be delighted to hear about the school that he have visit . I be sure that the hon . member for Honiton and Sidmouth ( Richard Foord ) be as delighted as I be to hear that the Water ( Special Measures ) Bill have receive Royal Assent and be now an Act . as bill go up , Labour have legislate to ringfence investment in infrastructure , and when money be not spend we will force company to give it back to customer . as for my hon . friend the Member for Carlisle ( Ms Minns ) , " yarn bombing " be not a term that I expect to hear in the Chamber today , but , like Carlisle , a town in my constituency call Irthlingborough have some of the good scene and little model . my hon . friend be welcome to visit it at any time so that we can compare they , but I be sad to say that I can not crochet myself . the hon . member for Ynys M ô n ( Llinos Medi ) be right to champion clean power and nuclear power . we have a clear clean power mission , and national infrastructure project will be cover by the Planning and Infrastructure Bill , which I hope she will scrutinise keenly . like my hon . friend the Member for Cannock Chase ( Josh Newbury ) , I welcome the £ 1 . 5 billion and 32 % increase for the mineworker ' pension scheme . I also pay tribute to those in the British Coal staff superannuation scheme who have pass away . I can say to the hon . member for South Devon ( Caroline Voaden ) and the hon . member for Taunton and Wellington ( Gideon Amos ) — who be my brother ' s MP — that I too live in a dental desert , and I understand that rural community be at a particular disadvantage . I will chase the Minister for Care , my hon . friend the Member for Aberafan Maesteg ( Stephen Kinnock ) for a response . my hon . friend the Member for Doncaster East and the Isle of Axholme ( Lee Pitcher ) — I hope I have say that correctly — speak so fast that I be not able to write down all the club he mention , but I congratulate the 100 - year - old rugby club and Vera Owen , who be definitely a community champion . I be sure that his support for the Planning and Infrastructure Bill will help those in housing crisis . I be shocked to hear from my hon . friend the Member for Dunstable and Leighton Buzzard ( Alex Mayer ) that one in five hen be still in cage , but I welcome the £ 22 million from DEFRA to improve hen welfare . the hon . member for Keighley and Ilkley ( Robbie Moore ) mention the Joze School of Dance , which I congratulate on its 20th anniversary . I also congratulate Maisie Swann and Blythe Dale . the business award that the hon . Member speak of — like my own , the NNBN — do wonder for independent business and small business , and I hope that his sister Becky have a bright future and a safe recovery . I agree wholeheartedly with the impassioned speech by my hon . friend the Member for High Peak ( Jon Pearce ) about local government . Wellingborough and Rushden share many of the woe he describe under a Tory unitary authority . I agree with the hon . member for Brigg and Immingham ( Martin Vickers ) that steel be critical to secure the economy , and to a secure economy . we have commit £ 2 . 5 billion in our plan for steel , and the relevant Minister be at the Dispatch Box yesterday . my hon . friend the Member for Erewash ( Adam Thompson ) speak about Owen , Roy and Harrison ' s male friendship , and I pay tribute to they for their recent viral sensation . I also pay tribute to his friend Tomas Shackson . friend like Dan and Joe be role model for young man everywhere , and I congratulate Joe on his achievement of become a consultant hand surgeon . I agree with my hon . friend the Member for Dunfermline and Dollar ( Graeme Downie ) about grow the skill agenda , particularly for Fife College , and about the SNP ' s abject failure on this issue . my hon . friend the Member for Portsmouth North ( Amanda Martin ) represent the city that I be bear in . it be impressive to hear how she have help over 2 , 000 people in Portsmouth . I have touch on water previously , but I be sure that she welcome the Water ( Special Measures ) Bill . I will give a special mention to Archie Whitfield for his fundraising effort for the Brain Charity . I say to the hon . member for Guildford ( Z ö e Franklin ) that I will definitely chase the Secretary of State on her behalf . as the hon . member for Kingswinford and South Staffordshire ( Mike Wood ) know , give that he be a fellow Whip , this be the first time I have speak in the Chamber since last May , when I ask the right hon . member for Richmond and Northallerton ( Rishi Sunak ) about dentistry , an issue consistently raise in Wellingborough and Rushden . I have be elect only three month prior , and then I find myself out door - knock again . a lot have change since then , include the member on this side of the Chamber , and the country have change in the nine month that this Labour Government have be in power . due to brevity , I will skip a lot of mention of Wellingborough and Rushden , but I will try to get one or two more in . a great Labour leader say : " there be nothing in life which be inevitable . it ' s about the change you choose . " last year , the country choose to reject the narrative of inevitable decline and put its faith in Labour . there be still much more to be do , but we be deliver that change . I express my gratitude to House staff , include the doorkeeper , cleaner , Clerks , catering , security , police , broadcasting , Hansard , visitor experience , our staff and constituency team , and civil servant , who all come together to make this place function . of course , my thank go to you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and to Mr Speaker and the other Deputy Speakers . as we rise for Easter recess , I offer my good wish to all here today and those listen at home . have an enjoyable bank holiday weekend and — to those who celebrate — an egg - cellent Easter , and lot of chocolate for everyone else . one of the beauty of these debate be that they allow whip to speak in the Chamber , and I congratulate both whip on their contribution . I thank all member who have participate . I end by wish a very happy Easter to you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and to Mr Speaker and the other Deputy Speakers , all mp , our staff , and the staff who do such a wonderful job at keep we safe and do all the work that be require . may they have a peaceful Easter and a good rest . I thank the hon . member for his wind - up . I add my thank to all the House staff , include the Clerks , the doorkeeper and the security people who keep we safe . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider matter to be raise before the forthcoming adjournment . Hospice Funding Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Keir Mather . ) may I start by wish you a very happy Easter , Madam Deputy Speaker , and by thank the Clerks , the Doorkeepers and the House staff who have draw the short straw and have to be here for the Adjournment debate at the end of the day ? I be pleased to have secure this debate on hospice funding , a topic that I know be of concern to member from across this House . even on the last day of term , the subject still give pause to so many . a hospice provide a beacon of hope to so many people in their dark time . it provide the comfort and knowledge need at a very difficult time , and without hospice support , many would be lose . that be why , across the country , we see volunteer give up their time and their finance to support local hospice — because , primarily , many of they be charity , although they receive some funding from the NHS . member from across this House , from every party , believe that hospice matter . first , I commend the hon . Lady for bring this debate forward . she be absolutely right to highlight the work of hospice , but also all those group that raise money for hospice , so that they can do their work . for instance , the Elim church , which have a cancer group that hold a dinner or breakfast every month , recently give £ 5 , 000 from a coffee morning , as well as its monthly offering . again we see charitable organisation , particularly when they be support by church , make the difference in this nation . do she agree that while they be admirable , we can not expect coffee morning and fun run to raise the funding that the Government have an obligation to provide ? rather than seek to end life , the Government must seek to ensure that people ' s last day in palliative care be dignified and pain - free . that will only come with fully funded end - of - life palliative care . I thank the hon . member for that intervention , and I pay tribute to all the volunteer who organise the fun run , and to volunteer in my constituency , such as Sharon Williams , who do the Thames hospice walk in Denham village every year . these be the people who support our local hospice , and we should all pay tribute to they . hospice matter because each year they support 310 , 000 people and 92 , 000 family member . hospice matter because they be vital holistic care service for people and their loved one at the end of life . hospice matter because they provide crucial end - of - life and overall healthcare , relieve the pressure on the NHS . they provide both community specialist and acute care . however , I suspect that the Minister and the Government already know this , and I be sure that they agree that hospice matter , so let I turn to why this debate matter . the hospice sector be under enormous pressure , and it face an unprecedented challenge . the sector be catch in the triple squeeze of increase demand , increase cost and uncertain funding . only the Government have the power to change that squeeze . only the Government can eliminate the increase cost or create more certain funding . in this House , recent month have be consume by a debate about assist dying , while the real scandal of the lack of support for end - of - life care through hospice go below the radar . it be estimate that the demand for palliative care in the UK will increase by 25 % in the next 25 year , but as hospice face this increase demand , the Government have decide to saddle they with increase cost , and have fail to provide a long - term settlement . let I speak about the excellent Thames hospice that support many family in my constituency and the constituency of my neighbour . I would not be here today be it not for Baroness May of Maidenhead . as a long - term champion of Thames hospice , she ask I to have a word with the hospice , as it be so concerned about its funding , which I do , and that lead to this debate . again , member of Parliament from both Houses continue to champion this important cause . I recently meet Dr Rachel de Caux , the chief executive officer of Thames Hospice . like many other hospice , Thames hospice represent the very good of our community : people who believe in provide quality of life at end of life , for everyone ; passionate people who care , like the Thames hospice Denham support group , and the volunteer who make donation and support those who go into the hospice . through their excellent work , they enable 80 % of the people they support to receive dignified end - of - life care at home , and the rest to get specialise in - patient service . I visit the service recently , and when I visit the call centre , I be move to see volunteer and staff work around the clock to help those who have just receive a terminal diagnosis , or family who could not cope . they be go to people ' s home and work all hour of the day and night to ensure that people have the pain support and palliative care that they need , at home or in the centre . Thames hospice , like many hospice , face a critical moment . Less than one third of its income come from the NHS . like many hospice , it raise the rest through its charity shop , fundraise effort and the generosity of private donor . the Chancellor ' s Budget be like a hammer blow to its finance , and it face a deficit of up to £ 1 million , largely as a result of the Government ' s choice . the national insurance tax raid , from which this Government recently vote not to spare hospice , will add £ 300 , 000 to its cost for the next financial year , while change to the national minimum wage will add another £ 200 , 000 , both through the direct impact and the need to maintain pay differential . meet the NHS pay settlement , which the hospice need to do to keep clinical staff — but which , again , it need to do without Government support — will add a furth £ 100 , 000 . finally , Thames hospice ' s supplier face the same cost pressure , and be pass those on to the hospice through high price . I know the Minister will talk about the £ 1 million settlement of additional funding for hospice that be announce in December , but let we set out the detail of that money : it be for capital expenditure , and be welcome , I be sure , by hospice , but it be not money for meet operational cost pressure . it be also split across 170 hospice , so it become a drop in the ocean for individual hospice and their need . will the hon . Lady join I in commend Compton Care hospice in my constituency ? the hospice , which I visit recently , do great work raise fund , and it really welcome the £ 100 million support provide by this Government . however , the hospice emphasise to I that if it be not there to provide social care , therapy and respite care for patient and their family , the NHS would need an extra 100 bed . hospice provide invaluable service to our community , which make it so important for we to continue to support they as much as we can . the hon . Gentleman make an excellent point about the pressure that hospice take off the NHS . the wonderful work of the hospice the hon . Gentleman mention be the reason the NHS can function in the way it do . the cost saving on palliative care — both in hospital and out - of - hospital care setting — be invaluable . the hospice in our constituency be a model that already work , and they be trust by the community . I think we should be fund that model , instead of allow hospice to die on the vine because of a lack of funding and change to the funding model . I thank the hon . gentleman for that point . I congratulate my hon . friend on secure this debate . we should not just complain about this terrible new tax that be be apply to hospice , but point out to the Minister that the return on taxpayer ' investment in what hospice spend on the dying be very great indeed . if a little bit of the big increase in funding that the NHS receive be transfer to hospice , it would pay great dividend ; it would save the need for much more costly care in the hospital . the return be 300 % , accord to St Helena hospice , just outside my constituency , on whose behalf I be speak this evening . I hope the Minister will address that point when he wind up . my hon . friend make an excellent point . that 300 % cost benefit would be replicate across the country , in every hospice setting . a small amount of money give to hospice through the NHS funding model would be invaluable . we talk about palliative care and assist dying , but why be we not have a debate about increase hospice funding , and make that service part of the NHS ? if hospice setting be part of the NHS , they would be exempt from the rise in national insurance contribution . that increase be devastating hospice right now . many rely on volunteer or low - pay worker in charity shop . the money raise help pay for the running of hospice . although that be a wonderful model , hospice be not exempt from the NICs increase , as other NHS body be . even change the status of hospice to make they part of the NHS would go a very long way to make their financial model viable . the hon . Member be make a powerful speech . I have steer the palliative care commission for the past six month , and the one thing that have become crystal clear in our mind be that the fundamental funding model be completely break ; it be not fit for purpose . furthermore , we need more integration in the system . hospice be involve in part of people ' s care ; they do not provide the entirety of their care . do she believe that the finding of the commission need to steer the future funding of the hospice sector ? that be an excellent point . we should be lead by the evidence , and also by what the commission find . I wish to highlight the hon . Lady ' s long - term work champion out - of - hospital care provision — not just palliative care , but all adult social care . I can recall many a debate on this matter in which there be just one or two of we in the Chamber , and she be always one of they . she be a long - term champion of the vulnerable , of palliative care , and of those who desperately need well service . may I thank she for all that work ? Madam Deputy Speaker , it be not often that you will see I reach across the House , but let we give credit where credit be due . there be member from all part of the House who have champion these cause over and over again , and it be only right and fair that I recognise they today . there be a very real prospect of the hospice sector collapse under the weight of the national insurance change , and that would be unimaginable . these be institution that be trust in our community and that we need to protect . they need additional funding from the NHS . the Government must act . I urge they to please reconsider the national insurance change . exempting hospice from the NICs increase , or help to fund their operating cost , would make a material difference to their ability to survive . our hospice matter , and I hope the Minister will hear that message loud and clear , and show we that the Government understand how vital they be . I thank the hon . member for Beaconsfield ( Joy Morrissey ) for secure this important debate . I wish to take this opportunity to thank all those who work or volunteer in the hospice and palliative care sector for the care and support that they provide to patient , family and love one when they need it most . this Government want a society in which every person receive high - quality , compassionate care from diagnosis through to end of life . we be determined to shift more care out of hospital and into the community , to ensure that patient and their family receive personalise care in the most appropriate setting . palliative and end - of - life care service , include hospice , will have a vital role to play in that shift . in England , integrate care board be responsible for the commissioning of palliative and end - of - life care service to meet the need of their local population . to support icb in this duty , NHS England have publish statutory guidance and service specification . although the majority of palliative and end - of - life care be provide by NHS staff and service , we recognise the vital part that voluntary sector organisation , include hospice , play in provide support to people at the end of life , as well as to their love one . Most hospice be charitable , independent organisation that receive some statutory funding for provide NHS service . the amount of funding that each charitable hospice receive varie , both within and between ICB area . this variation be dependent on demand in that area and on the totality and type of palliative and end - of - life care provision from both NHS and non - NHS service , include charitable hospice within each ICB footprint . this Government understand the financial pressure that hospice have be face , which be why we have announce the big investment to hospice in England in a generation . we be ensure that hospice in England can continue to deliver the high quality end - of - life care possible for patient , and for their family and love one . we be support the hospice sector with a £ 100 million capital funding boost for adult and child ' s hospice , to ensure that they have the good possible physical environment for the care they give . we be pleased to confirm that the Government have release the first £ 25 million tranche of the £ 100 million capital funding , with Hospice UK kindly allocate and distribute the money to hospice throughout England . an additional £ 75 million will be allocate in the come week for use in the 2025 - 26 financial year . the £ 100 million capital funding will help hospice to provide the good end - of - life care to patient and their family in a supportive and dignified physical environment . funding will help support hospice and will enable much - need improvement , include refurbishment , the overhauling of it system and improvement of facility for patient and visitor . we be also provide £ 26 million in revenue funding to support child and young people ' s hospice . this be a continuation of the funding that , until recently , be know as the child and young people ' s hospice grant . icb will once again administer the funding to their respective child and young people ' s hospice on behalf of NHS England . this be in line with nhs devolution policy , and it promote a more consistent national approach by support commissioner in prioritise the palliative and end - of - life care need of their local population . I be pleased to confirm that NHS England have now communicate the detail of the 2025 - 26 funding allocation and dissemination to individual hospice . I do accept that there be unwarranted variation and inequality in access to , and quality of , palliative and end - of - life care in England , but we be work to reduce these variation . NHS England have publish statutory guidance and service specification to support commissioner in prioritise palliative and end - of - life care . it have also develop a palliative and end - of - life care dashboard , which bring together all relevant local datum in one place . the dashboard help commissioner to understand the palliative and end - of - life care need of their local population , enable icb to put plan in place to address and track the improvement of health inequality and to ensure that funding be distribute fairly , base on prevalence . NHS England have also publish the ambition framework , which set out our vision to improve end - of - life care through partnership and collaborative action between organisation at a local level throughout England . additionally , NHS England have develop an assurance system with specific step and deadline to ensure the timely dissemination of the £ 26 million revenue funding to child and young people ' s hospice , because we know that there be some quite significant problem last year with the transmission from NHS England through the icb to hospice . these step include regular oversight session with icb , region and hospice and give icb a hard deadline within the first quarter of the financial year by which they be expect to disseminate the funding to hospice , include escalate to NHS England if any ICB be unable to meet the deadline . if the deadline be miss , NHS England have put step in place to ensure that all hospice receive the funding within the timescale outline . we , alongside key partner and NHS England , will continue to engage proactively with our stakeholder , include the voluntary sector and independent hospice on an ongoing basis to understand the issue they face . in fact , I recently visit Katharine House hospice in Stafford and hear from staff how important our record investment have be to they . more widely , in February I meet key palliative and end of life care and hospice stakeholder in a roundtable format to discuss long - term sector sustainability in the context of our 10 - year health plan . I recognise the concern that hon . member have raise about funding and employer national insurance contribution . in July last year we inherit public finance in their bad state since the second world war , and we take the necessary decision to fix the foundation in the public finance at the autumn Budget , enable the spending review settlement of a £ 22 . 6 billion increase or uplift in resource spending for the Department of Health and Social Care from 2023 - 24 out - turn to 2025 - 26 . I gently point out to the conservative party that while I believe it have welcome that unprecedented settlement , to my knowledge it have be silent on its preferred mean of generate that revenue . I gently say that Opposition Members can not have it both way . they can not welcome the £ 22 . 6 billion on the one hand but , on the other hand , condemn the way in which the money be to be raise without come up with their own plan and proposal for how they would raise those fund . we have to recognise that the hospice sector be in quite a difficult place financially . however , if there be good advance care planning , money currently spend in secondary care could be invest in the hospice sector and in more community provision . surely that must be a first step that would not only get well clinical outcome but be well for the whole of the palliative care pathway . my hon . friend speak with tremendous and deep knowledge of the sector . I welcome the work that she be do on the commission on palliative and end - of - life care , and we very much look forward to see the outcome and result of that . my hon . friend be right that if we be to make the three big shift at the heart of our 10 - year plan — the shift from hospital to community , from sickness to prevention , and from analogue to digital — the delivery of that will require a left shift in term of both funding and reform . it be absolutely right that we take a hard - headed look at funding across our NHS and ensure that funding be go to where it be need . she will know that the share that hospital get of overall NHS funding have go up dramatically since the early 2000 , to the detriment of primary care , community care and palliative care — all the thing that happen outside hospital . that be something that we must address and shift upstream , because we will never solve the considerable challenge that our NHS be face until we make that left shift . I note that the funding announcement be warmly welcome by the sector . Toby Porter , chief executive of Hospice UK , say : " today ' s announcement will be hugely welcome by hospice , and those who rely on their service . hospice not only provide vital care for patient and family , but also relieve pressure on the NHS . this funding will allow hospice to continue to reach hundred of thousand of people every year with high - quality , compassionate care . we look forward to work with the government to make sure everyone approach the end of life get the care and support they need , when and where they need it . " I hope that the measure I have outline in my response to the hon . Lady will go some way to reassure all member of this Government ' s unwavere commitment to the sustainability of the hospice and wide palliative and end - of - life care sector . I thank the Minister for outline what the Government be do . will he consider look at the exemption to the national insurance increase for worker and at allocate more funding directly to hospice so that they can conduct the palliative care that be need in the out - of - hospital care provision ? although the Government may want to give it to palliative care , there be no directive that do so at this time , aside from capital expenditure . therefore , could more money be allocate to hospice for operational cost ? the definition of where employer national insurance will be levy be base on the Office for National Statistics ' definition of where it should be , and it be the same definition use by previous government . I do not think that point be up for debate . to clarify , the NHS and the staff within it be exempt from the change . how be that part of the national statistical average , when everyone in healthcare who be under the NHS umbrella be exempt from the change ? all I be ask be for hospice care , which be out - of - hospital care provision and which technically fall within adult social care , to be incorporate into the exemption already give to the NHS . the exemption be give to 100 % full - time worker within the NHS ; in essence , hospital . as regard GPs , dentist and care provider , enic be be levy on those other part of the health and care sector . every aspect of my portfolio be therefore see enic be levy . a suggestion to the Minister would be to integrate the staff work in hospice into the NHS payroll . it would be that simple to exempt they from those national insurance increase . the decision on enic and where they be be levy have be make . I think it be make very clear that the line be draw where it be draw . any attempt to try to reverse engineer where that line should be draw would not really be align with the policy decision that be make at the Budget . be it the Government ' s intention to put an additional tax on hospice ? be that exactly what the Government intend to do , or be that an unforeseen consequence ? I would not dare to speak from this Dispatch Box on behalf of the Chancellor , but I be absolutely clear that when she do the autumn Budget , she know that she have to dig we out of a very deep hole indeed , and that require levy taxis that she have to levy . the line have to be draw somewhere and that be where the line be draw . on the other question ask by the hon . member for Beaconsfield , the funding have go through Hospice UK , so it be not direct funding in that sense . Hospice UK have kindly co - ordinate the process because it be extremely well informed about which hospice across the country have opportunity to upgrade their infrastructure , whether that be IT infrastructure , refurbishment or whatever it might be . it have review those proposal , work at tremendous pace and , as a result , we have manage to deliver the entire £ 25 million of the first tranche . we be now work closely with Hospice UK on the £ 75 million and I be confident that that money will be out of the door and into hospice in very quick time this year , base on the outstanding performance on the first £ 25 million tranche . I therefore hope the hon . Lady will be reassure on that point . in closing , I hope that we at least have a consensus on the vital importance of hospice . the Government be commit to work at pace to ensure that we secure a sustainability and solidity for the sector go forward . I thank the hon . member for Beaconsfield once again for secure this important debate . I also thank and wish everybody in this Chamber all the very good for the recess , and I look forward to see they all on the other side . question put and agree to . House adjourn .