I congratulate all member who have make their maiden speech today , include the hon . member for Mid Leicestershire ( Mr Bedford ) , who pay a moving tribute at the end of his speech . I thank staff across the parliamentary estate for diligently and patiently look after new member in these first few day . it be an honour to be call to make my maiden speech , which I do proudly as the Member of Parliament for my hometown of Hartlepool . to represent the place where I grow up , where I meet my wife Pamela and where we be raise our young family hold a special kind of responsibility for I . the challenge that Hartlepool people face be personal , because they be challenge that I share . when one of our local business close due to spiral cost , there be a good chance that I have visit it in well time . when a local play area be the victim of arson , my child be among those devastate at the loss of a place they enjoy , and when someone tell I that they be live in pain because they can not see an NHS dentist in a town that have be describe as a dental desert , I know how they feel , because I can not get one either . it be these experience that drive I to serve my home - town , and it be Hartlepool people who have give I that opportunity . it be now my duty to respond in kind by deliver for they the opportunity that they have be deny for far too long . that be why I welcome this King ' s Speech , which prioritise growth in every part of the country , not just those already bless with affluence . Hartlepool ' s history be one of innovation and industry . once the bedrock of the british economy as the country ' s third - large port , we build ship that ship the Durham coal that power the world . at one point in our history , Hartlepool ' s shipyard , such as William Gray and Company , launch more ship than anywhere else in the world . as a major exporter of steel , we build the bridge , the ship , the railway and the infrastructure that transform not just our economy but economy across the globe . such be Hartlepool ' s strategic importance that , along with only two other place on the north - east coast , it be target for bombardment by the german navy during the first world war . in true Hartlepool style , we be the only place to fire back , make the Heugh gun battery the UK ' s only first world war battlefield . our industrial heritage have not leave we . the Expanded Metal Company , which I have have the pleasure of visit , provide metal mesh for building such as the Stephen Lawrence centre in Lewisham , the Young Vic theatre and New York ' s New Museum , among many other . our world famous , and award - win , cameron brewery be build during Hartlepool ' s industrial heyday , but it have survive , grow and adapt to a change economy , and a pint of Strongarm be as good today as it be back then . in move the Humble Address , my hon . friend the Member for Bootle ( Peter Dowd ) mention the famous Antony Gormley statue in his constituency . although there be no Antony Gormley statue in Hartlepool , we be proud to have build the most famous one . whenever I travel up the A1 through the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Washington and Gateshead South ( Mrs Hodgson ) and see the magnificent Angel of the North , I remember three simple word : " make in Hartlepool . " if our history be one of industry , innovation and growth , I must tell the House in all candour that it must also be our future . too often , town such as Hartlepool have be leave behind , an afterthought in our national conversation , able only to reminisce about what we once be , not plan for what we can be . this must change , and I believe it will change under this Labour Government . right now , we be witness a new industrial revolution sweep the world as we shift to a net zero future . whereas our past be in coal and ship , our future be in new nuclear , wave and tidal . the election of this Labour Government mean that revolution be finally come to our shore , with a national wealth fund invest in job in every part of the country , a proper industrial strategy that forge a real partnership with business , and great British Energy , which will make the UK a clean energy superpower . I be determined that Hartlepool will play its part in this transformative agenda , once again at the metaphorical coalface of our country ' s prosperity and economic growth . that be nothing less than Hartlepool people deserve . they be my inspiration , with their defiance , grit and determination to succeed in the face of challenge . even in the tough of time , we come together , strong , more united and stand up for each other . everywhere in our town , we see courage , community and compassion . I have be privileged to work with brilliant Hartlepool people every day to improve our town , from those in our voluntary sector organisation and community group , our faith leader , and those in our school , college and club , include Hartlepool United ; my child and I be proud season ticket holder . all of they be work together in the service of our town . Hartlepool have produce many lead light across a variety of profession , from Iron Maiden guitarist Janick Gers , world boxing champion Savannah Marshall , fashion designer Scott Henshall and television presenter Jeff Stelling , whose repeat and impassioned outburst defend the north - east , its culture , heritage and people from those who would seek to criticise it display all the formidable characteristic of a person raise in Hartlepool . the Prime Minister have rightly talk about put his government back into the service of work people . my unfaltere belief in public service be instill in I from a young age . I want to take a moment to pay tribute to my father , Charles Brash , a doctor in Hartlepool for over 30 year . one of my early memory be of he come home from a night on call — GPs do that in those day — have a quick bite to eat , and then head straight back out for his morning surgery . some people still call I " the doctor ' s son " , and I wear it like a badge of honour . his career , spend in the service of other , shape my value , and my belief that only by put people first can we achieve the change we need . I pay tribute to my predecessor , Jill Mortimer . since her election in 2021 , Jill have forge strong relationship in Hartlepool , particularly with veteran ' group , which I hope to emulate . public service be never easy , and I thank Jill Mortimer for her service to Hartlepool . I close by return to the idea of opportunity . right now , in 2024 , in one of the rich country in the world , nearly 20 % of Hartlepool ' s child live in absolute poverty . nothing could well symbolise the spectre of opportunity deny — the opportunity for a safe and secure upbringing , to fulfil their boundless potential , to get a good job and raise their own family in security and prosperity . so I welcome the announcement by my right hon . friend the Secretaries of State for Education , and for work and Pensions , on develop an ambitious child poverty strategy , because as member know , the record be clear : when Labour be in government , child poverty fall . I be privileged to stand in this place , but I will never lose sight of the fact that it be a privilege gift to I by Hartlepool people , far too many of whom have be deny opportunity for far too long . hartlepool people have a reputation for , on occasion , elect fighter as oppose to quitter , and I be pleased to tell the House that they have do so again . my duty , my service , be to fight for they every day to secure the bright future that our town deserve .