Oral Answers to Questions Women and Equalities the Minister for Women and Equalities be ask — Domestic Abuse Aggravated Offences what recent discussion she have have with the Secretary of State for Justice on the potential merit of create new domestic abuse aggravate offence . the Government be absolutely committed to tackle the scourge of domestic abuse and halve violence against woman and girl in a decade . we be implement a domestic abuse identifi at sentencing to ensure consistent recognition of domestic abuse offender across the whole justice system . that will strengthen victim protection and offender management , deliver on a recommendation make by the independent sentencing review . I be sicken by the frequency with which I hear from victim and survivor of domestic abuse about the way in which the criminal justice system have aggravate their trauma . one constituent recently tell I that she be live in fear after her abuser be release early and the Probation Service fail to enforce probation condition . another have see the charge against her ex - partner schedule for criminal trial in two year ' time , and in the meantime he continue to exert control through the family court . will the Minister meet I to review what have go wrong in those two case and what lesson can be learn about how to use identifier of aggravation to give victim and survivor more protection ? I thank the hon . gentleman for that question and for all his work to amplify the voice of victim and survivor . like he , I be sicken by the treatment of the majority of woman and girl who go through this in our criminal justice system . he will know that we inherit a criminal justice system in absolute crisis . that be why we conduct a once - in - a - generation review of our court process — the Leveson review — which the Government will respond to shortly , and a once - in - a - generation sentencing review , to consider exactly the issue that he be talk about . I will happily meet he to discuss this far . my constituent , who have be the victim of historical domestic abuse by both her partner and her child , recently raise with I the need for a clear understanding and definition of child - to - parent abuse . at the time of her abuse , she do not know that what her child be do could be classify as domestic abuse , and both the police and social service fail to understand that she be the victim , not her child . will the Minister provide an update on the work to reach a legal definition of child - to - parent abuse . I thank my hon . friend for raise that vital point . she will , like I , be horrify by the result of the Femicide Census report this week , which show a rise in mother be kill by their son . we must tackle that as a society . she will be pleased to know that what she be talk about will be in the upcoming violence against woman and girl strategy . support for Trans People what step she be take to support trans people in the context of the Supreme Court judgment in the case of for Women Scotland . Scottish Ministers of 16 April 2025 . Trans people deserve dignity and respect . the Government be uphold the legal protection that Labour ' s Equality Act 2010 put in place , ensure that trans people can live free from discrimination and harassment . work be already under way to fulfil our manifesto commitment , include the delivery of a full trans - inclusive ban on conversion practice , the equalisation of all strand of hate crime , and a review of health service to ensure that trans people receive appropriate and high - quality care . the Minister will be aware that many trans people with gender recognition certificate follow all the legal process in good faith , often over many year , and make legally bind commitment to live in their acquire gender for life . yet now that they find themselves legally bind to live in one gender , they be at the same time be deny access to service and facility align with that gender . how do the Minister plan to resolve those contradictory legal obligation , and what will she do to provide immediate support to the trans community ? I recognise the importance of gender recognition certificate . let I be absolutely clear to this House , as I have be on many occasion : no one , include trans people , should suffer indignity or a lack of respect . they must of course have access to safe provision and appropriate service . however , the Supreme Court ruling be clear that biological sex be the mean by which single - sex provision will be deliver . I be really pleased that the Government be commit to deliver a full trans - inclusive ban on conversion therapy . when will that legislation be introduce to bring that abusive practice to an end ? we be committed to bring forward a draft bill to ensure that we deliver on our manifesto commitment to a full trans - inclusive ban on conversion practice , which be abhorrent and have no place in our society . I call the shadow Minister . the Equality and Human Rights Commission have confirm that at least 19 public body , include organisation across the policing , education and health sector , be misrepresent the law on single - sex space . that be a breach of the Equality Act 2010 , as confirm by the recent Supreme Court ruling . have the Minister be tell which body they be , and how can woman and girl have any confidence in they if they be knowingly and deliberately break the law ? the result of the previous Government ' s call for input show that , although the law be be follow in the majority of case , a small number of example be identify that seem to have misinterpret how the single - sex exemption of the Equality Act operate . as the hon . Lady will appreciate , it be for the independent regulator , the Equality and Human Rights Commission , to follow up on these issue through the appropriate process . it be do so in more detail and will work with organisation to put that right . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . my constituent Charlie be from Offerton . he have a gender recognition certificate that state that he be male ; he have a birth certificate that state that he be male ; and he have a resplendent ginger beard . the interim ehrc guidance , however , state that he should use the lady ' loo . that be clearly cracker , and Charlie tell I that he have have stick in the past when use the lady . it be in the interest of the whole of society for tran people to be able to leave the house and for there to be a loo that they can use in peace when they do so , while they contribute fully to our society . do the Secretary of State agree that when the final guidance be publish , which we expect soon , parliamentary scrutiny would be a good thing to ensure that the guidance be as good as it can possibly be , so that trans people can live their life to the full with the clarity and security that they need ? I agree that trans people and woman deserve appropriate access to safe space and the right level of accommodation and that we must ensure that provision be there , so that no one feel that their safety be at risk . to be clear to the House , the Government do not receive advance sight or notice of the interim update from the ehrc . the ehrc have now consult on its propose change to the draft update code follow the ruling . I have yet to receive that code from the ehrc . once that happen , we will ensure that , as a Government , we consider it fully , as the House would expect . violence against Women and girl what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to help tackle violence against woman and girl in the home . we be commit to halve violence against woman and girl within the next decade . we be work tirelessly to deliver that ambitious plan to tackle these heinous act through our violence against woman and girl strategy . minister across Government meet regularly to drive progress through the violence against woman and girl ministerial group . the murder of 10 - year - old Sara Sharif in my constituency be a harrowing example of violence against woman and girl in the home . social service play a vital role in protect vulnerable girl , yet we often hear that they be overwhelmed and under - resource . will the Minister please confirm what step this government be take to ensure that local authority social service be able to protect vulnerable child and stop tragedy such as Sara ' s ever happen again ? I be sure that the whole House have sympathy for the case that the hon . Gentleman have outline . I understand that the inquest be ongoing , but to answer the substantive point of his question , child ' s and adult social care have historically not always be what victim feel they could rely on , with many case to demonstrate that over the year . without doubt — as I sit next to the Secretary of State for Education — the work with my office , with the Ministry of Justice and with her office to ensure that that be handle in the violence against woman and girl strategy , and more broadly , be at the top of the agenda for all of we . will my hon . friend use this opportunity to remind the House how many woman and girl be vulnerable to people they know , as distinct from people they do not know ? will she also use this opportunity to condemn elect politician who peddle misinformation about who be most at risk and where the target really be ? I do not have in front of I the exact datum that my hon . friend have request — I be not entirely sure that exact datum exist — but what I can say , base on decade of experience , be that woman and girl in our country be far more at risk from people who know our name , and whose name we know , and who we work among and live alongside . the idea of " stranger danger " be one that most woman do not recognise ; the people they fear be people they know . the Parole Board be extremely concerned about the impact on domestic abuse victim of the Sentencing Bill that be now before the House . I urge she to keep in close discussion with member of the Parole Board and with the Justice Secretary as the Bill progress . I absolutely make that commitment here today . throughout the progress of any such sentencing change , the Home Office , the Minister with responsibility for victim and I have be heavily involve , and we will continue to be ensure that , despite the difficult situation that we be leave , every possible safeguard be in place . the Minister will know that the rise of platform such as OnlyFans have lead to the mainstream commercialisation of woman ' s body . do she agree that if we be to tackle violence against woman and girl , we must look at pornography prostitution ? will she commit to work with colleague in the Department for Science , Innovation and Technology to ensure that that be include in the violence against woman and girl strategy ? my hon . friend be absolutely right ; a strategy on violence against woman and girl that do not include the online element that she highlight , as well as other , would not be worth its salt . I commit to continue to work with dsit colleague on those issue . Maternity Care what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to help improve the quality of maternity care for woman . it be unacceptable that woman be experience poor maternity care . an investigation have be launch to understand the underlie systemic issue and develop national recommendation so that woman receive the care that they deserve . we be also take immediate action to improve accountability and well identify safety concern . that include roll out a programme to tackle discrimination and racism . sadly , Bedford hospital ' s maternity service be downgrade to " inadequate " last year , and its gold standard home birth service have recently be reduce . will the Minister ensure that the review examine why choice for birthing service be still be cut ? will he guarantee improved outcome in maternity and perinatal care , so that all woman can access safe , personalised , high - quality care ? my hon . friend be a strong campaigner on this issue for his constituent . the Care Quality Commission have commit to monitor maternity service at Bedford hospital closely , include through further inspection , to ensure that people receive safe care while improvement be implement . the investigation will seek to understand the systemic issue behind why so many woman , baby and family experience unacceptable care . the chair be work with family to finalise the term of reference for the investigation and those will be publish shortly . do the Minister agree that listen to the voice of bereaved family who have lose their baby be of essential importance ? if he do , will he listen to the call of Sussex family to appoint Donna Ockenden to lead their review ? I agree that it be vital to listen to those voice ; it will not be possible to get to the bottom of why care be not of an acceptable standard without hear those voice . I have hear what the hon . Lady have say about Donna Ockenden and I will certainly take that away to discuss with ministerial colleague . I call the Chair of the Women and Equalities Committee . Trauma during childbirth can have lifelong and debilitate impact . fail maternity service be feel by all , but especially by family from low - income and ethnic minority background . in my constituency , where too many already experience health inequality , Luton and Dunstable hospital ' s maternity unit have recently be downgrade to " inadequate " by the Care Quality Commission . do the Minister agree with I that mother and baby deserve well ? what cross - departmental work be take place to ensure that NHS trust across the country improve maternity care ? my hon . friend be campaign strongly for her constituent on this issue . we be establish the maternity and neonatal national taskforce , which will develop a national plan to drive improvement across maternity and neonatal care . it will be chair by my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care and make up of a panel of expert , and family , charity and staff representative . I be pleased to learn that my hon . friend meet Baroness Merron in June to discuss maternity care in Luton North . post maternity , many woman suffer female pelvic prolapse , but I be unable to get any answer on the matter of surgical mesh implant . will the Minister please work with his counterpart at the Department of Health and Social Care to get a realistic update on exactly what have happen as a result of the Hughes report , and give I the information about meeting between the Department and the Patient Safety Commissioner about progress on those recommendation ? I will absolutely raise the issue with colleague in the Department and we will write to the hon . Lady urgently with the answer she be look for . I call the shadow Minister . once again , this Labour Government have fail woman and girl through their inaction and blinker mindset on safety in their community and their slow action on the 2024 birth trauma inquiry report by Theo Clarke and the hon . member for Canterbury ( Rosie Duffield ) . that report recommend a national maternity strategy , which we commit to . over a year on , a so - call rapid inquiry announce in June only have a chair with no experience in maternity service and an expectation to fix this national scandal by the end of the year . that be ask too much of one woman to support many woman across the country . how will the Minister address ongoing and widespread concern , which we have hear again in the Chamber , react to the exist evidence and stop the belief that many woman be be fail by this Labour Government ? I really do find it a bit rich that the Conservatives stand there and try to lecture we after the 14 year of neglect and incompetence that be the trademark of their time in government . Baroness Amos be chair the independent maternity and neonatal investigation , which will be a rapid investigation with two core role : to conduct urgent review by the end of this year of up to 10 trust where there be specific issue ; and to conduct a systemic investigation into maternity and neonatal care in England , to create one set of national action to drive the improvement need to ensure high - quality care and ensure that woman be listen to . that be responsible government ; that be try to fix the mess that the Conservatives make after 14 year . the Conservatives would do well to actually support we in that . Young Disabled People : Labour Market Inequalities what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to help tackle inequality face by young disabled people in the labour market . we want young people with disability and health impairment to secure good employment as soon as possible and to fulfil their aspiration . the " pathway to work " Green Paper propose a youth phase in health and disability benefit , and we be currently review the consultation response . research by the national disability charity Sense find that more than half of disabled benefit claimant with complex need between the age of 18 and 34 say that there be few job that meet their need as disabled people . what step can the Minister take to ensure that more employment opportunity be available to young disabled people with complex need ? the hon . Gentleman raise a very important point . there be excellent example of job carving for people with complex need , and we need more of that . we look forward to the report be submit soon by Sir Charlie Mayfield on what more employer can do to open up opportunity for people out of work on disability ground , and I think he will have some very interesting proposal . the last Conservative Government leave so many young disabled people in Ealing Southall who want to work consign to a lifetime on benefit , but at West Ealing jobcentre we be already see a difference be make , with £ 1 . 3 billion of funding for employment support from this Labour Government . do the Minister agree that the Mayfield review offer a once - in - a - lifetime chance to transform the workplace to make it more accessible for disabled people ? I agree with my hon . friend ; she be absolutely right . disengage from work and learn in early adulthood can do last harm to career prospect and wellbee . we be launch the youth guarantee so that all 18 to 21 - year - old in England , include disabled young people , can access quality training opportunity and apprenticeship or help to find work . I be glad to hear that thing be develop so well in her constituency . topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . this Government be focus on break down barrier to opportunity for everyone . we be back work family , save they £ 7 , 500 through roll out 30 hour of government - fund childcare and roll out free breakfast club in our school . build on the proud legacy of sure Start , we will deliver 100 Best Start family hub to give every child the good start in life . we be open 10 new construction technical excellence college , back our young people to learn a trade and to get on . our plan for change will deliver for everyone . [ Official Report , 13 October 2025 ; Vol . 773 , c . 2wc . ] ( Correction ) I be sure that the Minister will have see research last week , which parent in my constituency will be really disappoint in , say that mum earn £ 302 less per week than dad . for too long , the Tories be happy for those cost to fall on woman . what step be she take to ensure that this Labour Government tackle the motherhood penalty ? I agree with my hon . friend that that be totally unacceptable . this Labour Government will deliver for woman , unlike the conservative party — whose leader say that maternity pay be " excessive " — or the Reform leader , the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) , who claim it be a " fact of life " that woman come back from maternity leave would earn less . we know the difference that high - quality early year education make , which be why I be delighted that , from this week , work family will be able to access 30 hour of government - fund childcare . I call the shadow Minister . writer and comedian Graham Linehan be apparently arrest by five police officer at Heathrow , then question about three tweet that he say be base on his gender - critical view , a belief protect by the Equality Act 2010 . despite this Government ' s claim to protect free speech , Mr Linehan have be ban from use that platform as part of his bail condition . can the Minister confirm whether it be now a crime in Britain to tell potentially offensive joke , and whether those who do so may face armed arrest ? the hon . Lady will know well that I can not comment on live police investigation , as the police operate independently of Government , but the Home Secretary have be clear that her priority and the priority of this Government be that the police focus on tackle antisocial behaviour and make sure that people can walk our street free from fear . will the Minister join I in congratulate read ' s University Medical Group , a gp practice in my constituency that be recently award the gold Pride in Practice award by the LGBT Foundation ? when I visit that practice last week , the doctor raise the issue of transgender care . many constituent have also write to I concerned about ongoing barrier to treatment for young people need gender - affirm care , so what more can the Government do to ensure that young transgender people get the treatment they urgently need ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise that work in her community . the Government have commission NHS England to undertake a LGBT health evidence review , which be be lead by Dr Michael Brady , the national adviser on LGBT health . it will diagnose the problem we need to solve , make sure we have evidence - lead recommendation in order to improve access to healthcare for adult . a constituent with muscular dystrophy report face a wait of eight to 12 month for AJM Healthcare to deliver a new wheelchair , which be far beyond the 18 - week target . what step will the Minister take with her health colleague to address the really poor performance by AJM Healthcare nationwide , particularly its equality implication ? if the hon . Gentleman will provide I with some more detail of his constituent ' s case , I would be happy to make sure it be look into by Ministers and that he receive a full response . a constituent and mum have get in touch because she have lose her entitlement to the 30 hour of childcare this government so brilliantly roll out , as well as the student finance version , because she be do law as a mature student . can the Minister look into close that loophole so that woman who retrain mid - career be not penalise ? we recognise the value of parent continue in education , which be why there be often available mechanism such as the childcare grant and the parent ' learn allowance . as I do not know the full circumstance of her constituent ' s case , I would be grateful if my hon . friend would write to I , so I can make sure that we give her constituent full advice on the childcare support that might be available to she . why have the Minister choose to champion the right of the resident of the Bell hotel over those of the local community ? that be just plain wrong . parental leave be just as essential for family who adopt as it be for those with biological child , give vital time for bonding . however , many adoptive family can not access the same pay leave . what step be the Minister take to ensure equal parental leave for adoptive parent ? my hon . friend raise an important area . we know that prepare for and adopt a child be an important time in the life of family , which be why we have commit to review the parental leave system to ensure it well support work family , include those who adopt . I would be happy to discuss that far with my hon . friend , or make sure a Minister discuss it far with she . have the Government do an equality assessment on how cancel family reunion differentially impact those from ethnic minority background ? the Home Secretary have set out our approach and the action we will be take in this area , and I will make sure that the hon . Lady receive a response from the Home Office on the matter that she raise . shelter ' s " my colour speak before I " report highlight systemic discrimination in access to housing , from disproportionate scrutiny of applicant to barrier in both social and private rent housing . how be the Government ensure that tackle structural racism be at the heart of housing reform and this Government ' s policy ? we be determined to ensure that we have high - quality housing available , include social housing for rent , and that people have the opportunity to buy their own home . there be no place for racism in our housing system . if my hon . friend will share with I the detail of the report that she mention , I will look into that far on her behalf . Prime Minister the Prime Minister be ask — Engagements if he will list his official engagement for Wednesday 3 September . on Sunday , we win the contract for the big defence deal that Norway have ever place . that be a £ 10 billion investment , secure 15 year of shipbuilding in Scotland and across the rest of the United Kingdom . one day later on Monday , we launch 30 hour of free childcare for work family . not only do that save work parent £ 7 , 500 a year , but it will transform the life chance of our child , because every child will start reception with an equal opportunity to achieve their potential . that be a Labour Government in action , deliver for work people . this morning , I have meeting with ministerial colleague and other . in addition to my duty in this House , I shall have further such meeting later today . economically deprive high street and poor high street be flood with gambling shop . the " aim to permit " legislation prevent council from say no . my summer campaign on gambling reform have receive load of support , include from Gordon Brown , who say that if we tax the gambling industry , we will get £ 3 billion for our economy . will the Prime Minister join campaigner and help I to end " aim to permit " , so that constituent such as his and mine can thrive ? I thank my hon . friend for her question . it be important that local authority be give additional tool and power to ensure vibrant high street . we be look at introduce cumulative impact assessment , like those already in place for alcohol licensing , and we will give council strong power over the location and number of gambling outlet to help create safe , thrive high street . I call the Leader of the Opposition . I know the whole House will want to send our condolence to the family of our former colleague , David Warburton . I also welcome the fact that the Deputy Prime Minister have refer herself to the ethic adviser . she have admit that she underpaid tax , so why be she still in office ? there be not just a crisis at the very top of the Prime Minister ' s Cabinet ; there be a crisis brewing for the whole country . when be the last time that the cost of government borrowing be so high ? I join the Leader of the Opposition in her comment about Mr Warburton . I think the whole House would unite on such an issue . in relation to the Deputy Prime Minister , she have explain her personal circumstance in detail . she have go over and above in set out the detail , include yesterday afternoon ask a court to lift a confidentiality order in relation to her own son . I know from speak at length to the Deputy Prime Minister just how difficult that decision be for she and her family , but she do it to ensure that all information be in the public domain . she have now refer herself to the independent adviser . that be the right thing to do , but I can be clear that I be very proud to sit alongside a Deputy Prime Minister who be build 1 . 5 million home , who be bring forward the big upgrade to worker ' right in a generation , and who have come from a working - class background to be Deputy Prime Minister of this country . on the question of borrowing cost , they have rise across the world , as the Leader of the Opposition well know . we be drive they down by get debt down . that be hardwire into our fiscal rule ; those fiscal rule be non - negotiable . I be not go to take lecture on the economy from the Conservatives , who crash the economy . mortgage go through the roof and there be a record fall in living standard . I be not sure we would have hear all that sympathy if it have be a Conservative Deputy Prime Minister who be be attack . I remember when the Prime Minister say that tax evasion be a criminal offence and " should be treat as all other fraud " . if he have a backbone , he would sack she . but let we get back to the issue of borrowing . the Prime Minister do not answer the question about why it be so high . the Conservatives leave he the fast - grow economy in the G7 . under he , the cost of our borrowing be now high than it be in Greece . why do the Prime Minister think that be ? if it have be the Conservatives , there would not have be the accountability , which be now in place , because they spend year and year avoid it . the right hon . Lady ' s claim about the economy on their watch be about as credible as her place at Stanford University . [ interruption . ] she leave out of her account , because she want to talk down the country , that we have the high growth in the G7 . I look forward to she get up and welcome that . we have have five interest rate cut in a row , and , of course , £ 120 billion of investment in the first year of a Labour Government . that be a record . it be a terrible record . I stand by every single thing that I have say . the Prime Minister can not say why borrowing be high under he . I will tell he why it be high : it be because the Chancellor change the fiscal rule so that she could borrow record amount . she maxe out the country ' s credit card , and that have push up borrowing cost . these be their bad choice . former member of the Monetary Policy Committee be warn that " we be head for an economic crash " . why do the Prime Minister think that he be right and they be wrong ? the right hon . Lady can not resist it — she come straight back to talk the country down at every opportunity . she do not welcome the high growth in the G7 . she could have get up and welcome that , but no . what about the 380 , 000 job that we have create ? she could welcome that , but no . what about the three trade deal that we have ? not only do she not welcome they ; she oppose they . and , of course , she have not welcome the Norway deal — the big deal for shipbuilde in a very , very long time . she should stop talk down the country and get behind the renewal that this Government be deliver . the Prime Minister be drag down the country . he be drag it down . how can he stand there and say that he be create job ? unemployment have go up in every single month under this Labour Government . he do not know why borrowing cost be go up . another reason be that the market can see that he be too weak to control spending . now we be read that he want to have another go at welfare cost . what make he think that Labour Members will vote for it this time ? I think I see that the Leader of the opposition say this to the Sunday Times at the weekend : " I have inherit a gigantic mess and I ' m clean it up . " she say : " it ' s very difficult … it ' s go to take a while . " I know exactly how she feel . More ! we be not the one refer ourselves to ethic adviser . the fact be that he be flounder . he — [ interruption . ] perhaps he should have a read — [ interruption . ] order . perhaps he should have a read of the — [ interruption . ] order . we do not want to start the session with someone leave , do we ? if someone want to volunteer , please do so . if not , I will choose one . Labour Members can do the fake cheer as much as they like . the whole country know what a mess of the economy they be make . it be clear that taxis be go up for everyone — except , perhaps , the Deputy Prime Minister . I warn before the summer that we would face week of speculation about which taxis would be go up . the former head of the Institute for Fiscal Studies have say : " this sort of … uncertainty be actively damaging to the economy . " and now we find that we have to wait until 26 November for a Budget . do the Prime Minister really think that the country , or the market , can wait that long ? the right hon . Lady say that the opposition be not refer themselves to the ethic adviser . that be among the reason they get boot out of office last year . she complain that we be go through the due process for a Budget and go through the necessary step . we try a Budget on their watch without go through those step . what happen ? they blow up the economy . we will take no lesson from they . this be desperate stuff from the Prime Minister . this week , he have another reset . this morning , the Prime Minister scrap his five mission . after scrap his three foundation , his six first step for change and his seven pillar for growth , the truth be that this man have get no clue — zero clue . but this be serious . the Prime Minister ' s incompetence be hurt real people . they be lose their job and the cost of everything be go up , from energy bill to the weekly shop . this be a crisis make in Downing Street . be it not the truth that he be too weak to change course , and too arrogant to admit he get thing wrong ? I do not know what social media site the right hon . Lady have be on this morning , but I think the chair of the Tory party say that this Government be the " firefighter " . well , in a sense we be , because we be put out the fire that the Conservatives create . they be the arsonist — the big fall in living standard on record , blow up the finance . we have spend the first year put out their fire — quite right too — but now we be deliver on the cost of living : fund childcare worth £ 7 , 500 for work family , free breakfast club and open new school - base nursery . that be what we be fight for : the good start for every child in this country . the Mayor of the West Midlands , Richard Parker , be deliver growth and job by back sme such as Booghe Toys in my constituency , which have just double in size . will the Prime Minister join I in praise this success and confirm that boost ambitious small and medium - sized business across the UK remain a key priority of his government ? may I recognise and congratulate the business in my hon . friend ' s constituency ? we have publish our small business plan , which be very well receive . it include new rule ; crack down on late payment , which have long be ask for ; a £ 3 billion boost to more business loan ; and fair business rate system to support small business . that be why it be so warmly receive . I call the leader of the Liberal Democrats . on behalf of my hon . friend on these Benches , may I join the Leader of the Opposition in send our condolence to the family of David Warburton ? I be sure the whole House will join I in pay tribute to Annette Brooke , who serve in this House for 14 year and sadly pass away last month . Annette dedicate her life to public service and serve the people of Dorset , and she be greatly miss . we have all see the horrifying image from Gaza : the baby so thin from starvation that you can see their skeleton ; the body of child kill while queue for water ; the emaciated hostage still hold captive by Hamas . the Prime Minister have rightly say he want to stop all that , so when the one man in the world who have the power to stop that come to our country on a state visit , will the Prime Minister look President Trump in the eye and urge he to use his influence on Netanyahu and Qatar to make it stop ? may I join the right hon . gentleman in his comment about Annette Brooke , and also in his description of the horrifying situation in Gaza ? it be horrify . we be look at a man - make famine , on top of everything else . that be why we be expend so much of our time , with partner , on seek to bring about a ceasefire , to get humanitarian aid in at pace , to get the hostage out and , of course , to put forward a peace plan that can actually take we to a two - stage solution . of course I will talk to all international leader about that . I gently say to he that if he have not refuse the invite to the state banquet , he could have be there two week on Tuesday speak to President Trump himself . I be surprised ; it be not an act of leadership to pass up that opportunity . I have to disagree with the Prime Minister on that — we be now debate this issue . here be an issue on which I hope the Prime Minister will agree with I . the european convention on human right be a british creation that protect all our basic right and freedom : the right of child , disabled people , survivor of domestic abuse , victim of horrific crime — everyone . it protect care home resident from abuse and family from be spy on by council , but the leader of the Conservative party and the leader of Reform want to join Russia and Vladimir Putin by withdraw from the convention . the Liberal Democrats disagree , and so do the majority of the british people . will the Prime Minister categorially rule out withdraw from the echr , suspend it or water down our right in any way ? we will not withdraw from the european convention on human right . we do need to make sure that both the convention and other instrument be fit for the circumstance we face at the moment , and therefore of course we have be , as we have make clear , look at the interpretation of some of those provision . it would be a profound mistake to pull out of these instrument , because the first thing that would follow be that every other country in the world that adhere to these instrument would pull out of all their agreement with this country . that would be catastrophic for actually deal with the problem . Scotland have a proud heritage as one of the world ' s great shipbuilding nation . on behalf of the defence industry worker across Ayrshire and beyond , I welcome the large export deal for new warship ever secure by the UK . do the Prime Minister agree that this show how , under Labour , we can build on our proud past to secure a bright future for our shipbuilding industry ? I thank my hon . friend for her question . I be very pleased to get the call from the Prime Minister of Norway on Saturday night , tell we that the UK have win this contract , beat off competition from the US , France and Germany because of the quality of shipbuilding in this country . this be a £ 10 - billion deal — 15 year - worth of shipbuilding , particularly in place like the Clyde , and thousand of skilled job in Scotland . it show the importance of the defence industrial strategy , and the importance of Britain be take seriously again on the international stage . it come on top of the record investment in defence that we have already announce early this year . I be join today in the Gallery by the leadership of the Young Farmers ' Clubs of Ulster , an organisation and young people who be passionate about youth work , our rural countryside and the future of farming and agriculture . agriculture policy be devolve , but the Prime Minister ' s agricultural inheritance tax be the thing that have they and young farmer across all the country despair not just for their future , but the future of food security . when will the Prime Minister change course on the farm family inheritance tax , now that he be take control of tax policy ? first , I welcome the Young Farmers ' Clubs of Ulster to Parliament . I take this opportunity to say to the hon . member and to they that we have invest more than £ 2 . 7 billion in farming and nature recovery — that have be welcome — and of course we be develop a 25 - year farming road map to make the sector more profitable . again , that have be warmly welcome . their future will depend on that road map , and we will work with they . this week , the Global Sumud flotilla , which include british citizen , set sail for Gaza to break the illegal blockade and deliver much - need aid . in June , a british boat , the Madleen , be threaten and its crew detain , but we take no action . can the Prime Minister say what have be learn from this , and what step be be take to protect the british citizen on this flotilla ? my hon . friend raise a really important issue in relation to the horrifying situation in Gaza . the israeli Government be prevent urgently need aid from get in , which be why we be now see a man - make famine , and that should cause we all to pause and reflect . we be work with other country to get aid in by any practical mean , but land route be the only viable and sustainable mean of get aid into Gaza on the scale that be require . Israel must lift the restriction to allow aid agency to deliver the life - save supply that be so desperately need . so the Budget date have finally be announce , and once again , Scotland be some sort of distant afterthought . the Budget date have be leave to the 11th hour because the government do not know how to resolve their countless counter - b ù rachs . it be a Budget date that have practically wreck Scotland ' s budgetary process , leave it almost impossible for we to pass a budget before Christmas , and leave great uncertainty for Scotland ' s public service . do you know , Mr Speaker , that they could not even be bother to notify the Scottish Government , leave they to find this out on social medium ? I ask the Prime Minister : how be this reset in relationship work out ? the hon . Gentleman overlook the fact that at the last Budget there be a record settlement for Scotland — £ 50 billion a year . he talk about support . we have just win the Norway frigate contract . that be 15 year of shipbuilding in Scotland . the SNP First Minister have say what about that since Sunday ? absolutely nothing . I know we have another SNP question in just a moment . perhaps that will be the opportunity to welcome the deal that we have win , and the job now for Scotland . Prime Minister , last year , my online safety forum of child and young people from every secondary school and college in Darlington find that 71 % of our year 10 and 12 have be contact by a stranger online , a shocking failure that our Online Safety Act will hopefully prevent go forward . will he join I in call on the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) , and all oppose to this vital Act , to pick a side ? be they with we , parent and child protector , or be they with the predator harm our child online ? of course , the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) be not here to represent his constituency in the House that he be elect to . no , he have fly to America to badmouth and talk down our country . it be bad than that , Mr Speaker : if you can believe it , he have go there to lobby the Americans to impose sanction on this country that will harm work people . you can not get more unpatriotic than that . it be a disgrace . the Online Safety Act 2023 protect child from material on suicide , self - harm and online predator . reform say it would scrap it . when its leader be ask , " well , what would you replace it with ? " , his answer be : " there need to be a tech answer . I don ' t know what that be " . you can not run a country on " don ' t know " answer . Mr Speaker , I be sure that you , like I , get to enjoy everything that UK hospitality have to offer over the summer . fifteen local pub receive nomination in my community pub award . I visit place include the Bull Inn in Battle , the Castle Inn in Pevensey , the Swan Inn in Dallington , the New Inn in Westfield and Sidley work man ' s club . many of they tell I how hard - hit they have be by labour ' s job tax . ukhospitality estimate that 80 , 000 job have already be lose , and the british Beer and Pub Association say that a pub a day will close this year . can the Prime Minister name a single pub landlord who think that the Deputy Prime Minister ' s Employment Rights Bill will help , rather than just make thing bad ? I hope the hon . Gentleman pace out the visit to all those pub , and do not do they all in one go . ukhospitality have welcome our small business plan , which obviously apply to pub . [ interruption . ] yes , it have . the reason be that it permanently lower the business rate that they pay , and it tackle late payment — something for which it have be ask for a very , very long time . the Conservatives talk about fix that , but they never deliver . we be deliver . my constituent have endure four major fire in recent month across our community , include one that cause the devastating destruction of Cumbernauld ' s iconic St Mungo ' s church , yet the Scottish Fire and Rescue Service be consult on downgrade Cumbernauld fire station , increase response time and put life at risk . will the Prime Minister make representation to the Scottish Government that they should not risk life with cut to our vital emergency service ? I think the whole House be sorry to hear about the awful fire that my hon . friend ' s constituent have face , include the destruction of St Mungo ' s . I know just how important that church be to the local community . the Scottish Government have receive the large settlement in the history of devolution — £ 50 billion a year . that should be focus on the issue that matter to her constituency . I will take this up , and make sure that we raise it with the Scottish Government . first of all , I refer to my comment early in the week , since the Prime Minister ' s research be not up to scratch . George Reid , a former Presiding Officer of the Scottish Parliament and MP , pass away over the summer . he be a humanitarian to his very fingertip . he abhor the demonisation of asylum seeker , include those desperate enough to cross the channel in small boat . figure publish by the House of Commons Library show that the number of asylum seeker who be force to cross increase dramatically after Brexit , as a result of our leave the Dublin regulation . instead of punch down and join in with the victim blaming of Reform and the Conservatives , will the Prime Minister reject their isolationism and look to rejoin the Dublin convention , which every other country in western Europe have join ? there be nothing progressive about people cross the channel in small boat — nothing at all . we need to ensure that that stop . I agree with the hon . gentleman on the question of the Dublin agreement . we have a return agreement with the whole of Europe , but it be rip up when we leave the EU by people who make promise that that would not be the case . we be rebuild that relationship — we have reset it — and we now have a return agreement with France . we would not need a single return scheme with France if we have not rip up the Dublin agreement . we be at a very dangerous political moment , with opinion poll warn that for the first time in our country ' s history , we risk the election of an extremist far - right government . we all have a duty to prevent that . to do so , do we not need to rebuild support through a return to real labour value , with real action to tackle poverty and inequality , a wealth tax on the super - rich , and ethical foreign policy that take a strong , principle stand on war crime , whoever commit they ? we do stand at an important moment : we can have the politic of renewal under this Government , or the politic of grievance under Reform . reform do not want to fix the problem ; it want the grievance to continue . the last thing it want be improvement in the life of work people in this country , because it feed off the problem and grievance be there . that be the difference . Admiral Lord West be head of the Royal Navy , Chief of Defence Intelligence and a Labour Security Minister , and he sit on the Intelligence and Security Committee . when he write in the national press denounce what he call the " disgraceful decision to hand over ownership of the Chagos archipelago " , add that he do " not accept that the move be ' absolutely vital for our defence and intelligence ' , as the Prime Minister claim " , should we rely on his professional judgment or not ? I have the misfortune to disagree with he . new mum and dad in my constituency tell I that one of the thing they worry about most be whether they can afford the childcare that they need to be able to go back to work . that be why it be great that parent will be able to save up to £ 7 , 500 a year on nursery fee , thank to this Labour Government . do the Prime Minister agree that not only be invest in childcare important for tackle the cost of living crisis , but it will help to remove barrier to decide to have child in the first place ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this matter . I be very proud to make our announcement about childcare on Monday . as she say , rightly , it will save family on average £ 7 , 500 in a cost of living crisis , but crucially , it also apply from nine month to four year . under the previous Government , there be a disparity at age four between child arrive at reception , with some barely out of nappy , and other quite articulate . that lock in inequality for life . I be really pleased that the measure that we announce on Monday unlock that , ensure that every single child age four get to the starting line in reception with a fair chance of go as far as their talent will take they . while the conservative party delude itself with the myth of endless fossil fuel , the rest of we know just how ridiculous and reckless that be . extract more oil and gas from the decline North sea basin will do nothing to protect energy security or job . the Prime Minister himself have state : " climate action be at the heart of this government ' s mission for the protection and prosperity of Britain and the world . " with a decision loom on the Rosebank oil field , will the Prime Minister prove that his word mean something , and finally put an end to this climate - wreck project ? I do notice that the Leader of the Opposition go to Scotland , I think , this week to announce that if she ever become Prime Minister , which be extremely unlikely , she would pull down £ 50 billion of investment in renewable in Scotland . this be good , secure job of the future — absolutely reckless behaviour . the Opposition have not learn anything . the Greens have a new leader — unfortunately for the hon . Lady — and we can now see what they really stand for : withdrawal from NATO at a moment like this ; totally unfunded spending that would blow up the economy ; and block all planning proposal . they also have a leader who have make — to say the least — some very strange comment about woman . there be only one party deliver fairness and tackle the climate crisis and that be the Labour party . Prime Minister , in September 2021 , you meet ex - arsenal player Michael Thomas in Portcullis House alongside other former footballer of the V11 , when I host they in Parliament . last night , the BBC broadcast the V11 documentary , expose the fraud perpetrate against they and the financial abuse that they have suffer within the footballe system . they have all suffer terrible financial loss , but his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs be still chase they for taxis from fund that be defraud from they . Prime Minister , will you join I in meet Michael Thomas and other player to see how we can protect victim of fraud and , instead , go after the perpetrator of fraud ? I will , and I have meet Michael Thomas a number of time . of course , he have a special place in my heart , have score that win goal at Anfield when we win the league — although the less say about win at Anfield at the moment probably the well . the serious point be that these be sporting hero who have bring we so much joy , and they should have proper support from their sporting body on both health and welfare . Michael Thomas and other be run an important campaign to bring this to our attention . we do need a trust system that take the wellbeing of our sport people seriously , particularly those in vulnerable position . I know that the Minister for Sport be in contact with the campaigner . on a recent visit to the UK Space Agency , base in my Oxfordshire constituency , I learn of the huge value create by our space sector , generate more than £ 7 for every £ 1 invest . give the Government ' s decision to scrap the UKSA as an executive agency , will the Prime Minister guarantee its international credibility , its operational independence and its budget ? and will he visit Harwell Campus to hear what our brilliant space company need from Government ? I thank the hon . member for raise this important issue , and reassure he that we do want to keep the huge expertise and knowledge of the UK Space Agency staff , include those work in his constituency . we have already secure almost £ 300 million in contract from the European Space Agency and this will cut cost , reduce duplication , so we can really focus on grow this important sector . since the start of the full - scale invasion into Ukraine , Russia have steal , abduct and indoctrinate at least 19 , 546 child . it be one of the most heinous crime of this war . I warmly welcome this morning ' s announcement of an additional package of sanction on those perpetrate these crime , and will the Prime Minister assure the House that he will do everything possible to return these child to their home ? I acknowledge my hon . friend ' s campaign on this really important issue . Russia ' s policy of force deportation and indoctrination of ukrainian child be despicable , and anybody who have hear the story or see the picture can not be other than profoundly move . we have take firm action . this be one issue that we discuss two week ago in Washington when I go over with other leader to ensure that we be all impose maximum pressure . among the very many horror of the Ukraine conflict , this be right up there as one of the absolute bad . like many , I be deeply concerned that a police force deem it necessary to take five armed officer to arrest a comedy writer from a flight . some may have find Mr Linehan ' s comment offensive , but that be not the point . if we do not support speech that we do not like , we do not support free speech . will the Prime Minister commit to review our speech law to ensure that legitimate free expression be protect and will he condemn the culture within the public sector that prioritise this dangerous and perverse nonsense ? I thank the hon . member for raise this point . he will have see that the commissioner put out a statement this morning in relation to this case . I have be clear throughout that we must ensure that the police focus on the most serious issue and the issue that matter the most to our constituency and all community . that include tackle issue such as antisocial behaviour , knife crime and violence . we have a long history of free speech in this country . I be very proud of that , and I will always defend it . in a week when the Prime Minister have work tirelessly to place Clydeside , Glasgow and Govan at the epicentre of Type 26 shipbuilding , be he as perplex as I be at the radio silence from the SNP and the contempt that the SNP continue to show for the defence sector ? do he agree that it be a contempt for job and growth and an 18 - year - long contempt for Scotland ? I be perplexed that the First Minister have not welcome the deal . it be a massive deal for Scotland — it be 15 year of shipbuilding . I would have expect the First Minister to hold a press conference to celebrate what we have do with this deal . those 15 year of shipbuilding be extremely important to the Clyde and many industry , and they be a reflection of the professionalism and dedication that worker in Scotland have show over many year . I urge the First Minister to come forward and welcome this deal . for the final question , I call Sir John Hayes . Mr Speaker , I know you will agree that flag and banner , in bring national pride , nourish individual ’ sense of worth and nurture our shared sense of belong . will the Prime Minister take step to ensure that across every part of our kingdom , alongside the crosse of St George in England , St Patrick in Ireland , St Andrew in Scotland and the red dragon in Wales , our flag be fly on every government and public building — hospital , school , police station and railway station — for every Briton deserve the chance to see a forest of flagpole and the flutter of the Union Jack ? I share the right hon . Gentleman ' s pride in our country ' s flag . it represent our history , our heritage and our value . that be why we display it . I be the Labour leader who put the Union Jack on the membership card for the Labour party , and I be very proud to do so . it belong to all of we . we should be proud of it and value it . point of order on a point of order , Mr Speaker . I be chair of the Public and Commercial Services trade union group in Parliament . as member will know , PCS member from the House ' s security division be take strike action today . these be professional , dedicated and committed staff , and it take a lot to motivate they to take strike action : their sense of grievance . there be a clear difference of view between the management of the House and the union about how we have arrive at this situation . could I use this mechanism to urge the senior management of the House to seek another meeting with the union to clarify the situation and to come up with a reasonable offer that will resolve this dispute ? I do not wish to see our dedicated staff outside of work on this basis . they provide we with the security that we need . I thank the right hon . member for give notice of his point of order . while it be strictly not a matter for the Chair , I would agree that it be in everyone ' s interest to work together to resolve matter . I hope that we can get people around the table rather than strike . I do not want to go into further detail , and I think it be well we leave it at this stage . Methanol Poisoning ( Travel Advice ) before we come to the ten - minute rule motion , I wish to make a short announcement about the House ' s sub judice resolution . a coroner ' s inquest have be open into the death of Simone White , and those proceeding be now sub judice . however , give the significant public interest in address this matter , I , as Speaker , have decide to grant a waiver from the House ' s resolution relate to matter sub judice in respect of any inquest into the death of UK citizen or resident result from methanol poisoning overseas . member may therefore refer to the case in the course of proceeding , but I would urge they to avoid say anything that might prejudice any future criminal or civil proceeding in the UK . motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to require travel advice issue by the Secretary of State and other person to include guidance about the risk of methanol poisoning ; and for connected purpose . I have be work closely on this issue on behalf of one of my constituent , Chloe Lassetter , who alongside her family , Sue , Neil , Tom and Amanda , have be fight to raise awareness of the danger of methanol poisoning abroad follow the tragic death of Simone White last year . as member may have see from medium coverage at the time , Simone be travel with her friend Bethany in Laos . they be stay in a small riverside town about two hour north of the capital . it be a hub for backpacker travel across south - east Asia . it be there that Simone and her friend consume free shot of alcohol offer at the hostel . the next day both feel unwell , but they carry on with their plan . hour later , after board a bus to their next destination , thing worsen : Bethany faint ; Simone vomit . they be eventually take to a local hospital , but doctor have no idea what be wrong and initially suspect food poisoning . still confused and deteriorate , the girl make it to a private hospital . I can not imagine how frightened and confused they must have be at this point , but sadly , by then it be too late for Simone . she start have seizure during dialysis and be eventually take for emergency brain surgery . the surgery relieve the pressure but cause bleeding and the other side of her brain start to swell . the result confirm methanol poisoning be not available until two week later , but by then Simone have sadly already pass away . although Bethany recover follow her hospitalisation , six other young people fall victim to suspect methanol poisoning , have drunk at the same hostel . two young Australians , two young danish woman and an American all lose their life . as the australian Prime Minister say in November , this be " every parent ' s bad nightmare " . my heart go out to all the family who lose love one in the most unbelievably tragic circumstance . over the last year , I have learn so much about Simone , who be a much - love young woman . she have a brilliant life ahead of she , and when I attend her funeral , it be clear that she be deeply love by her friend and family . a year ago , like so many of we here , I do not know much about methanol poisoning , yet over 1 , 000 people die from it every single year worldwide . this be such a huge danger , but barely any of we know about it . I also go backpack after university but never know about the danger , and sadly , the same be true of so many of our young people . that must change . for member who be less aware than we should be , methanol be tasteless and have only a faint smell , make it impossible to tell if a drink have be contaminate . when consume , it can lead to a coma , convulsion , blindness , nervous system damage and death . medical specialist say drink as little as 25 ml of methanol can be fatal , but it be sometimes add to drink because it be cheap than alcohol . since their devastating loss , simone ' s family have campaign tirelessly to prevent similar tragedy from affect other family . alongside Simone ' s friend Bethany , they have be raise awareness of the danger of methanol poisoning , and it be an honour early this year to help to arrange a parliamentary drop - in session on the subject , alongside my hon . friend the Member for Orpington ( Gareth Bacon ) and the hon . member for Dartford ( Jim Dickson ) . the family be join by representative of the travel industry , the National Poisons Information Service , the British Toxicology Society and the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office to educate mps , and the message be clear : awareness save life , but only when Government guidance be accurate , clear and consistent . sadly , current official travel advice be fall short . in some high - risk country , there be very little warning at all . where advice do exist , it be vague and understate . traveller be tell that certain drink " might carry a risk " or that they " should exercise caution . " this be not a matter of caution : this be about a lethal , preventable danger . I appreciate that the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office have update the health section of the travel advice on its website , but we must do more to make the warning clear and more explicit , so that information be more readily available to everyone . the Government ' s Travel Aware website have an informative section on methanol poisoning , but more must be do to make that advice and guidance well know to young people before they travel . as thing stand , they really have to search to find it . my Bill , support by my hon . friend the Member for Orpington and the hon . member for Dartford , for Cheadle ( Mr Morrison ) and for Lewisham North ( Vicky Foxcroft ) , propose a straightforward , proportionate solution . it do not attempt to police alcohol sale abroad . it do not require costly programme or enforcement . it simply require the Government to provide prominent , clear and consistent guidance about methanol poisoning for country where the risk be know to exist . other government have already take step to warn their citizen . Australia ' s Smartraveller service provide unambiguous , practical advice and reach young traveller through target campaign . we should do no less , and we must not be leave behind . family such as Simone ' s , who have endure unimaginable grief , be not ask for the impossible . they be ask for honesty , clarity and actionable guidance , so that other family do not have to suffer the same loss . we have already show in this House that collaboration between family , expert and parliamentarian can and do raise awareness . now it be time to turn awareness into action . I know that Ministers in the Foreign Office be well aware of simone ' s story , as we have exchange many letter on the topic , and the Foreign Office kindly host I , my hon . friend the Member for Orpington and the family at a meeting early this year . I thank they for their engagement to date and I look forward to continue work with they , as I know they understand the grave risk at stake . as Simone ' s mother , Sue White , say : " if it can happen to simone , it can happen to anybody " . so let ' s start the process today to prevent future tragedy . I commend the Bill to the House . question put and agree to . order , that Laura Trott , Gareth Bacon , Jim Dickson , Tom Morrison and Vicky Foxcroft present the Bill . Laura Trott accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 29 May 2026 , and to be print ( Bill 300 ) . opposition Day [ 10th Allotted Day ] property taxis I inform the House that I have not select the amendment . I call the shadow Chancellor of the Exchequer . I beg to move , that this House note recent report that the Government be consider a wide range of increase to taxis on property ; note the Prime Minister ' s commitment last year not to impose Capital Gains Tax on primary residence ; and call on the Government not to introduce an annual property levy which would tax the family home , high rate of Council Tax , or a land value tax , or to lower the threshold or far increase liability to Inheritance Tax , for example , by change the seven - year gift rule . I trust you have a good recess , Mr Speaker . I be absolutely certain that the Deputy Prime Minister also have a good recess . we see many photograph of she down at the seaside , just off the coast in a rubber dingy — rather like many of the other photograph we see over the summer , give this Government ' s reckless policy on illegal migration . she be probably celebrate the acquisition of another property for her property empire , but that celebration be perhaps slightly tinge with a nagging doubt as to whether she have indeed pay enough stamp duty . well , we will get to the bottom of that in due course . those who could not avoid pay the taxis impose by this Government be business right up and down our country , many of which I take the time to visit during the recess . in the leisure sector alone , some 80 , 000 job have be destroy by the national insurance rise , and this have particularly affect those take their first job , young worker , part - time worker and female worker . job be be destroy . while the Deputy Prime Minister be lounge on her boat with her wine , this Government be all at sea , like a cork bob on the tide , with no control over the event swirl around they . when it come to the economy , although eclipse by the calamity around illegal migration , we see recently the panicked reshuffle of the Treasury Front Bench . I offer my congratulation to the Exchequer Secretary to the Treasury , the hon . member for Chipping Barnet ( Dan Tomlinson ) and warmly welcome he to his new role . however , I should also tell he that he be join a sink ship , whose captain have just have all her authority strip from she , while all his comrade down below deck be fiercely try to bail it out . I also offer a fond farewell to the former Chief Secretary to the Treasury , the right hon . member for Bristol North West ( Darren Jones ) , who no doubt think he be very clever when he leapt off the sink ship . he will not be feel quite so clever when he discover that the place to which they have send he be even more dysfunctional than the Treasury Front Bench . among all this news of arrival to our shore , we have have a cruel summer of speculation around tax . we have see in the sky cloud of kite fly largely by the Treasury as to what taxis it be go to put up . it have all be tax , tax and tax . I be remind of the Beatles ' song " Taxman " : " I ' ll tax the street , if you try to sit , I ' ll tax your seat , if you get too cold , I ' ll tax the heat , if you take a walk , I ' ll tax your foot . " when it come to tax , it be not so much " Good Day Sunshine " as " help ! " [ Laughter . ] okay — it be a bit hammy , but it be worth a try . I be go to try " Penny Lane " as well , but I draw the line there . it be worth examine how we get to this point , for a reckoning for our country be surely come . this will be a story for all time . will my right hon . friend give way ? I will do so momentarily . it start with broken promise . this be a party that say during the run - up to the general election that it have no intention of raise taxis leave , right and centre , and yet within a month or two , this Government do precisely that , with devastating consequence : tax rise on business that stifle growth . they talk down the economy by confect a £ 22 billion black hole that do not exist . what an irony it be that it be they who bring in the Office for Budget Responsibility to decide whether that £ 22 billion black hole exist and that the OBR say it could not legitimise the claim — the Government be wrong . what happen with spending and borrowing ? it get completely out of control . the combination of pass on price rise because of the national insurance increase , and the extra borrowing and spending , have lead to high inflation . we be an outlier when it come to inflation . will the right hon . member give way ? in a moment . that in turn have see interest rate high for long and the servicing cost on our national debt now run at over £ 100 billion a year — more than twice our defence spend . I will now give way to whoever be try to intervene behind I . would my right hon . friend agree that correct this loss of market confidence demand decisive action from the Government at the Budget , and that that decisive action can not be take solely on the tax side ? the tax side be what have drive we into this loop . we need decisive action on spending and particularly on welfare if we be to see some restoration of market confidence and get ourselves out of this rut . my right hon . friend , as ever , be absolutely right . the reality , as we see in the bond yield at the moment , be that the market have no confidence in the ability of this government to get on top of spending . we see the farce of a Government who come into office scrap the £ 5 billion of welfare saving that be already bake into the OBR ' s scorecard because we have bring they in , and attempt to bring forward their own reform only for their Back Benchers to vote they down . my right hon . friend be so right ; this government do not have the will or the plan to deal with spending , and that be at the heart of the reason why we will all be punish and pay the price of more taxis come the Budget in November . I commend the shadow Chancellor for bring forward this subject for debate . he clearly share my deep concern that I have , and that I think everyone in this Chamber should have , that the Government be consider a further tax on property , despite the fact that the Prime Minister commit to not impose capital gain tax on resident of this United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland . last year , it be the family inheritance tax ; this year , those who own property — those who have scrimp and save for their house , those who be middle class , those hard worker — have now become the late target of labour tax policy . the hon . Gentleman be entirely right . of course , if the Government have get into a situation where they be have to scrabble around and look at property taxis , as we be debate this afternoon , than really nothing be safe from the taxman under this Government . I gently remind the right hon . member that since this Labour Government come to power , interest rate have be cut five time — a vote of confidence in our Chancellor , fix the foundation of our economy . that save the average family on an average tracker mortgage in my constituency over £ 100 a month . will he remind I what happen to interest rate when his party be in power ? as the hon . Lady will know , interest rate be one of the key tool in monetary policy and be apply to bring down inflation . while she be right that there have be five reduction in the level of the base rate , there should have be many more . the reason be — the evidence be there — that this Government have stoke inflation . inflation be still rise . it be at twice the level or thereabout that it be on the day of the general election . when a Government stoke inflation , we pay the price through high interest rate , and that be precisely what have be happen . my right hon . friend be right to highlight the massive impact of these tax rise on so many family and business up and down the country . will he comment on how we can have a Deputy Prime Minister who have admit avoid pay the tax that she owe and who continue in office ? and this , from a party that call for the resignation of people for far low offence ! do that not expose the rank hypocrisy that seem to run right through this Government ? if the right hon . Lady want to make the rule , she should live by they . that message will go out to business and family up and down the country . there be no way that they can avoid the juggernaut of taxis that be come down the track . in return for the right hon . member ' s generosity in give way , I will say something pleasant about the last Conservative Government . [ interruption . ] I know — wait for it ! it will be just one thing . the last Government allow council like Westmorland and Furness , run by the Liberal Democrats , to double council tax on second home . it be right to do that because excessive second - home ownership annihilate community in the lake and the dale , the west country and elsewhere . but can I encourage the Conservatives and the party in government now to do something that would do much more to limit the number of second home than that : bring in a new planning category of use , so that national park and council can manage the number and save community ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his kind word about the conservative party — I be sure that they be deeply feel and very genuine . what the Deputy Prime Minister should be do be deliver more home . it be quite clear that the target of 1 . 5 million home , which the Government claim they will deliver at the rate of 300 , 000 a year , will not be meet . I be quite happy to be prove wrong , but I very much suspect that I will not be , unfortunately . we have end up in a situation in which a huge black hole be loom . the National Institute of Economic and Social Research put it at possibly as much as £ 40 billion . the economic mismanagement of the Labour party be a recurrent theme . in the October Budget — the Government ' s first — there be headroom of about £ 10 billion against the fiscal rule . that , plus £ 4 billion more , be blow by the time of the spring statement — the emergency Budget . once again , it appear that considerably more have be blow all over again . that be no surprise . the u - turn on winter fuel payment and on welfare reform , which we have already discuss in this debate , lead to unfunded commitment of around £ 6 billion — unfunded commitment after the Chancellor have say that the Labour party would never find itself in that position . what she say have simply not happen . what signal do it send to the market when the Government can not control spending ? in the long - term , it will be interesting to see what the Office for Budget Responsibility have to say about its forecast for growth . in recent time , 30 - year bond yield have hit a 27 - year high . we be pay more to borrow than Greece . there be a potential debt crisis loom , and this country could be on the brink — all on Labour ' s watch . the Government inherit bond yield high than those in many other country . right now bond yield be go up in Japan , Germany and the United States . be the Chancellor responsible for all that ? there be no doubt that under the previous Government there be a need to support the economy . that involve the expenditure of £ 400 billion , not least on the furlough scheme . I do not remember the hon . Gentleman ' s party argue at the time that we should not do that ; in fact , it argue that we should go far still . the Conservative Government step in , support job and save we from go into mass unemployment that many fear would be bad than even in the 1980 , and I take great pride in that . but we be where we be now , and what the Government should be do be grow the economy , stoke up business sentiment , get taxis down and get the economy move , but they be do precisely the opposite . be not the difference now that we be see stagflation — high inflation and the economy not grow as it should be ? we be therefore see job loss and unemployment go up every month under this Labour Government . unless they do something drastically different , it will only get bad , and that will impact on our growth prospect and therefore on the prosperity not just of our nation but of the individual who work and try to thrive here . my hon . friend be absolutely right . we be see high inflation , anaemic growth , high gilt yield and a pound that have be plummet in recent time . all those be signal flash red on the dashboard . instead of get a grip on spending and get taxis down , the Government have be out there pitch - roll yet more taxis . over the summer , we have see briefing to the press suggest tax rise on property . the Labour party have an opportunity this afternoon to rule out those possibility , and the Minister should do just that when he respond . first , there have be a suggestion that there will be change to the private residence relief under the capital gain tax regime . that would strike at the heart of our country as a property - own democracy . People would be penalise simply for sell up and move home . it would have clear implication by bung up the property market , and clear economic implication by cause friction in the process of people move from one part of the country to another , often in search of work . it would discourage downsize , even though that would be beneficial in provide more home for people to live in . before the election , the Prime Minister say that there never be a policy of that type so it do not need to be rule out , but let we rule it out just in case anyone pretend that there be such a policy . when he respond , will the Minister confirm that he stand by the word of the Prime Minister ? secondly , there have be a suggestion of an annual tax on home . what a tax on aspiration ! what a tax on people who have save hard and manage to get on the property ladder , but who will then be stick with annual taxis . what about those who be asset - rich but income - poor and can not afford to pay — be they expect to sell up ? will the Minister rule out that possibility and put people ' s mind at rest ? if that be not enough , we hear that the Government may be consider change to the gift regime in inheritance tax . they be not content just to pulverise farmer and family business , and to see those business and farm break up when they be pass on from one generation to another , because of the imposition of tax . in fact , it be a Labour Government in the 1970 who bring in the relief that this Government have choose to abolish . the inheritance tax yield will double over this Parliament . the opposition say , " enough be enough . " we should not punish parent who wish to pass something on to their child . socialist do not understand that we do not all stand as atomise individual ; we work together as family and community . we care about each other , we care about the people we love , and it be right that we have the opportunity to pass something on to they . I thank the shadow Chancellor for introduce this debate on such an important issue . property and asset be vital to the country and to people . on the lifetime limit for inheritance tax , over the past year everyone will have hear the Government tell farmer and family business to get their affair in order and to plan . not have a limit on the lifetime cap be what allow they to plan . if that be cut or the cap be not in the right place , it will negate every argument that the Government have make in the past year to justify their family farm and family business tax . will the Minister please acknowledge that and rule out any change to the cap , which would penalise family farm and business ? my hon . friend have put it brilliantly and succinctly , and she be absolutely right . in their horror — in their recoil from the inheritance tax change — that be exactly what farmer and family business owner have be do : think about alternative . the seven - year rule have be one of those alternative , and it would be a really heartless and extraordinarily cruel moment if the Government be to shut that down as well . my right hon . friend be explain the situation in his usual powerful way . if , as seem likely , the Government impose capital gain tax on a person ' s principal private residence , will he , as mitigation , consider whether there should at least be indexation allowance to provide some relief from the horror that I fear be about to be inflict on my constituent ? he will remember that the Finance Act 2008 abolish that relief on other property . I suspect that the Government will not be sympathetic to such a suggestion give what happen in 2008 , but it would at least take the edge off the imposition of taxis on the sale of a person ' s principal private residence . my right hon . friend raise his point in his usual eloquent manner . that be a question for the Minister , and I hope that , when he rise to the Dispatch Box , he will rule out our concern in their entirety . in the event that he can not , perhaps he will choose to answer my right hon . friend ' s inquiry . be it not the case that those in the Labour party have a clear misunderstanding because they have no business experience ? those on the Government Front Bench have no business experience in set up company or understand the meaning of business taxis — the experience be simply not there . labour will talk about tax wealth , but do it not understand that if we tax wealth , we will get less of it ? it have be estimate that about 15 , 000 high net worth individual have leave our country in the period in which this government have be in power . a consequence of that tax just walk out of the door be that we will require somewhere around a third of a million to half a million people on average earning to make up the difference . this be not a case of good riddance to wealth ; the Government should — as the conservative party would — encourage and turbocharge wealth at every turn . will my hon . friend give way ? if I be an hon . friend , I will certainly give way . I be sure Hansard will correct I . the right hon . Gentleman just make some comment about high net worth or high value individual . in my constituency , I be particularly interested in individual on low income . in Peterborough , I represent a city with one of the high level of those employ on zero - hour contract and in chronically insecure work . do he not agree that his party often want all the spending , but none of the funding for delivery ? he talk about reduce taxation for some of those with high net worth , but will he also talk about which doctor ' surgery in my constituency would suffer cut under his plan , which individual would receive no protection for their employment right , and how the people of Peterborough would be bad off because he want to reduce the spending that will fix the foundation of this country ? the hon . Gentleman refer to cut spending . his party attempt to cut spending , but entirely fail to do so . my point be that if he want money to spend on public service , he need to cut welfare and should worry about how to do so . I do not know how he vote when that be put to the test in this House , but if he in any way vote against his own Government and against get on top of the welfare bill , he should ask his own question of himself . as for those on low income , they be precisely the people who be now be devastate by the increase in national insurance . there be not just an increase in the rate , but a substantial reduction in the threshold at which national insurance kick in , which have mean high unemployment , in particular among young worker , part - time worker , woman and people get that vital first job so that they can get themselves on a career path . they be the people whom the Labour Government be punish most . be that not exactly the point — that the top 1 % of earner pay almost 30 % of income tax ? if we lose they , we damage the people who need the support and the investment from the very taxpayer we have just scare off . should not the reverse be happen ? we should attract more people into this country to spend more money , so that we have more money for such service through tax collection . my hon . friend be absolutely right . I have already share with the House the classic example of the number of people who have leave this country because of a punitive tax regime and the cost of that . far to the excellent point make by my hon . friend the Member for Hinckley and Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) , the Labour party denigrate wealthy individual who choose to come to this country . however , it be about not just the tax that they provide , but the job and opportunity they create by invest in constituency up and down the country . this country have prosper for hundred of year by be open and welcome to inward investment . if we lose that , we lose a key plank of the competitiveness and growth that have be associate with our economy . that be right . we live in a highly mobile world ; it be easy for people with substantial wealth or money to invest to go anywhere in the world . we have to remain competitive , and this Government be make we less competitive . my right hon . friend refer to unemployment , but just look at the record — should we have expect any more from this government ? no , not really . every single Labour Government in history have leave unemployment high when they leave office than it be at the time they come into office . what have we see on unemployment since this Government have be in office ? it have increase every single month since they have be in power . the right hon . Gentleman have spend the past five minute circle around figure gather by a consultancy that aid the super - wealthy to migrate from this country . where be the conservative party get its economic idea from ? it speak volume that he have spend so much time up to this point speak for the 15 , 000 high net worth individual serve by that consultancy ; and his previous point be about inheritance tax , which be pay by only 4 % of all estate in the UK . if he have any idea , what will the conservative party do to grow the economy for the benefit of all people in this country ? the hon . Lady ask where we be get our idea from ; where we be not get they from be from academic and researcher who believe in tax wealth and who now sit there on the Treasury Bench , or in other place where they advise no . 10 . they talk on a regular basis about tax property , wealth , share and asset of any description that they can think of , but that be the road to ruin . she ask where we get our idea from , and I will tell she . I set up my own business in the 1980 , from absolutely nothing . I grow it from scratch , and then I take it over to America and grow a business there . I have live , breathe and eat business most of my life . I also go up and down the country to speak to other such business . they be the people who understand what need to be do on the tax front and who have to live with the red tape that her party be bring in to tie they down . they be the people whom this party be listen to . the right hon . Gentleman have talk at great length about tax the wealthy , but he have omit one of the suggestion that come forth over the summer , which be to get rid of the punitive council tax system , which tax poverty and deprivation in this country . the former conservative leader of Hartlepool borough council famously cheer when he put up council tax on deprive people in Hartlepool . why be the conservative party and now Reform — that former conservative leader have now defect to reform — so attach to that regressive system ? I think that council tax , different variant of it , revaluation and so on be thing that Government should look at , because we do not want they to be entirely static ; there can always be reform and change . I will observe , however , that the average council tax pay in Labour area be demonstrably high than the equivalent taxis in conservative area . that come down to the approach that a conservative council take to spending and to ensure that council be efficiently run , rather than the profligate approach of the Labour party . one of the suggestion make to the government early this year be from Conservative - run Hampshire county council , to increase the council tax on my constituent by 15 % . that be block by this Government , by the Secretary of State . will the right hon . Gentleman join I in condemn Conservative - run Hampshire county council ' s proposal to increase council tax by 15 % ? I be not go to get into specific thing go on in the hon . Gentleman ' s area . how can I be expect to opine with authority on something of that nature relate to his constituency ? [ interruption . ] hold on . my general point stand : the simple fact be that Labour - control local authority charge more in council tax than conservative - run council do . rise — order . member can not keep stand up and wave their hand in the air ; the right hon . Gentleman have to give way . what the right hon . Gentleman have say be not a fact . the reality in my region be that Milton Keynes , the labour - run local authority , have low taxis than all the surround Tory authority , include in Northamptonshire , which have fail over and over again . two Conservative and now reform council have fail , as have Buckinghamshire , while Milton Keynes have be label by the Local Government Association as one of the well - run council . it still deliver low council tax than all those Tory - run authority . it be a simple matter of logic that even if the hon . Lady ' s assertion be true — I do not know whether it be or not — it do not contradict the point that I make . be it not the current Prime Minister who say " not a penny more on your council tax " ? be the shadow Chancellor aware of how that work out ? in a word , badly . a moment ago , the shadow Chancellor suggest that he would not get into speculation , but this whole debate be premise on medium speculation . I ask he to comment on an actual proposal that be make to the Government by a Conservative - run county council to increase local council tax for my constituent by 15 % , so he be ask we to vote on a motion about media speculation but he will not comment on an actual proposal . my point be very clear — I need to make some progress as I have be fairly generous in take intervention — that when it come to council tax , it be a fact that Conservative - control council charge less , because their whole approach to run the council be the same as our approach to run the economy : to ensure it be do efficiently and not to impose undue burden on people by way of tax . we be tell by the Chancellor that the tax hike in the Government ' s first Budget , last autumn , be a " once in a Parliament " event . it be now a question not of whether there will be further tax increase , but which taxis will be increase . the uncertainty that have flow from the disastrous situation over the summer have mean that , because of labour ' s choice , a hold have be put on business invest , on property transaction and choice , and fundamentally on some of the freedom that we , as citizen , often take for grant . Labour Members will desperately dismiss all of this as press speculation — I expect to hear that from the Minister in a moment — but be it not the truth that this sorry tale be entirely of their own making ? it be the inevitable result of their choice and the failure that have follow , with much of this speculation seemingly fuel by briefing from within the Government . this House and the public deserve answer . the Chancellor can not borrow more and have show no ability to control spending . that can only leave tax , but which taxis will it be ? be family home safe or be they simply fair game ? if Labour member fail to vote for the simple motion before we today , then the answer will be clear : under this Labour Government , nothing be safe — not people ' s home , pension , saving , business or farm , and not that which they simply wish to pass on to their own child . the message to hard - work people up and down our country could not be clear : labour will always duck the hard choice and tax the living daylight out of your family ' s future , to pay for its failure . the hypocrisy ! order . I hope somebody do not use the word " hypocrisy " . I be sure that be not the case . I call the Chief Secretary to the Treasury — and congratulation on your promotion . I thank the right hon . member for Central Devon ( Sir Mel Stride ) for open the debate . I can tell that he spend his summer polish some of his rhetorical flourish , which he have share with we today , but I suggest that he could have spend his time rather well . thank you for your word of congratulation , Mr Speaker . it be a real honour to be here as Chief Secretary to the Treasury . may I put on record my tribute to my predecessor , now the Chief Secretary to the Prime Minister , my right hon . friend the Member for Bristol North West ( Darren Jones ) , for all his fantastic work , notably deliver the spending review ? I welcome the Exchequer Secretary to the Treasury , my hon . friend the Member for Chipping Barnet ( Dan Tomlinson ) , to his new role . I thoroughly enjoy the role myself , and I be sure that he will be excellent in it . conservative Members will appreciate that today ' s motion , as table , simply can not form the basis of a specific debate on individual tax measure . member from across the House will know that the Government do not respond to speculation in advance of a Budget , which the Chancellor have today announce will take place on 26 November . this have long be the case : the shadow Chancellor know it well and he know that it would be irresponsible to engage in that speculation . whatever political rhetoric he and his colleague will use in today ' s debate , and no matter how many variant of the same question they ask , I know that he will understand that I can not engage with speculation about individual tax measure ahead of the Budget . the hon . Gentleman say that he can not speculate on individual tax measure , but will he deny that the no . 11 machine have be leak these story to the national press over the summer ? I be not go to engage in speculation about tax measure or any of the mechanic around they . the hon . Member and his hon . friend will simply have to wait until 26 November to hear the specific of the Budget . at that point , I be sure that he and his colleague will have plenty to say . I genuinely congratulate the hon . gentleman on his appointment as Chief Secretary to the Treasury . I have always find he to be an honest and straightforward speaker in the House and he deserve his position . on the point about speculation , can he confirm report that the Government be look again at welfare ? surely he will agree with I that , in any process of fiscal consolidation , one must look to tax rise and to spending cut . there have be a lot of reporting about there be further measure on welfare , so will there be further measure on welfare under consideration — yes or no ? I thank the right hon . member for his kind word . as he will know , welfare measure be already go through Parliament and be investigate by my right hon . friend the Minister for Social Security and Disability through the review that he be undertake . this Government be determined to ensure that the safety net be there for the people who need it , and that the people who can work have the support they need to get and maintain a job . what be not speculation be that the large rise in property taxis happen under the Conservatives , when Liz Truss crash the economy and increase interest rate for everyone in my constituency . will the Minister speak to the fact that house price be different in different part of the country , and that must be reflect in Treasury think about tax and the Budget this year ? the hon . Gentleman be right to remind everyone of the record under the short - live Prime Minister , Liz Truss . I notice that Conservative Members do not refer to that themselves when evaluate the economic situation , but the british people will not forget it . on his wide point about housing across the country , we want to ensure that we be build affordable home in every part of the country . one of this Government ' s priority have be to reform the planning system , to enable the building of 1 . 5 million home and ensure that every community have those home , so people have home that they can afford to live in , in the area where they grow up , where they want to live or go to work . that be a central mission of this Government . on that point , will the Minister give way ? I will give way one more time , but then I will make some progress . the fact that the Government hope to build all those new home show that they recognise the importance and value of a home to a family . the Minister say that he will not talk about specific tax measure , but do he recognise the principle that we should not tax people ' s home if we be a country that value home ownership ? I gently remind the hon . member that council tax — a tax on property — exist in this country , so the principle of apply some taxis to property be well establish in the UK , and have be for some time . she be try to tempt I to engage in more speculation , but as I say to the shadow Chancellor , I be not go to engage in speculation about what may or may not be in the Budget . I thank the Minister for give way — he be always very generous with his time — and congratulate he on his well - deserve promotion . the Conservatives be not fan of tax , but sadly they be also not fan of support public service . under their government , thousand of his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs compliance officer , include my mum , be make redundant and we be not able to collect the right amount of tax that people owe . be that partly why this Government inherit such a large financial black hole ? order . before the Minister respond , I will say that we have quite a few colleague hope to contribute , so intervention should be short . the Minister should be aware of that and consider how much long he wish to contribute . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker — the hint be take . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Harlow ( Chris Vince ) for his intervention , and I thank his mother for her service to HMRC in the past . People at HMRC do an absolutely critical job in collect the tax that be important in fund our public service and ensure that our economy function effectively . one of our priority as a Government have be to close the tax gap that exist under the previous Government . at the Budget last year and in the spring statement early this year , we set out plan to raise an additional £ 7 . 5 billion in tax revenue as a result of hire people to do those really important job , as well as invest in new technology and modernise the service to ensure that people pay the tax they owe . will the Minister give way ? I be go to make some progress , because a few moment ago I say I would do so . I have be gently remind by Madam Deputy Speaker that I really must live up to my promise on that front . the right hon . member for Central Devon ask I question in his opening remark — indeed , his colleague have their sheet from the Whips , and they have be dutifully follow up in their comment — but they be on matter that we can not talk about today . there be of course other important fact that the right hon . Gentleman do not want to talk about , but the british people have not forget they . there be the £ 22 billion black hole in our public finance , which the previous Government hide from the light . there be the disastrous mini - Budget , which cause damage to household across the country and to our reputation around the world . we have stall housing , unfinished infrastructure and public service bring to their knee by under - investment and disinterest . the Conservatives do not want to talk about those thing because that be the legacy of the last Government . we find out just today that the right hon . Gentleman do not even want to talk about thing happen in conservative council , as my hon . friend the Member for Basingstoke ( Luke Murphy ) raise so importantly in his contribution early . now that the Conservatives be in opposition , the right hon . Gentleman ' s party and Reform Members be talk Britain down . they want to claim that Britain be break , but I believe that Britain be unbreakable . our country be full of potential . it be home to hard - work people , brilliant business , world - lead university and research institution , cultural giant and the promise that if people work hard and contribute to the country , it will be a place where they can succeed . yet undeniably , after 14 year of Tory mismanagement , far too many work people feel that the economy be stuck . will the Minister give way ? I have be ask by Madam Deputy Speaker to make some progress , so I will return to the hon . Gentleman a little later . I hear from my constituent , as I be sure many other member in the Chamber hear from theirs . they tell we that no matter how much effort they put in at work , their careful management of household finance and their diligent effort to save for a bright future , they do not yet feel that they be get enough in return , and it have become hard to get ahead . at the same time , our road and railway seem slow and less reliable and our classroom seem full , while the NHS have a massive backlog . the root cause of all that be the chronic under - investment by the previous Government . that under - investment over many year have slow our productivity growth to a rate not see since the napoleonic war . do the Minister agree that it be thank to the tight fiscal rule that this Government have introduce and the change in the Budget that since the election my resident in Dartford have see an investment in the low Thames crossing ? they have want that for 15 year , and it be not deliver under the last government . they have also see a £ 25 million hospital rebuilding project at Dare nt Valley hospital and a £ 1 billion structure fund from the Department for Transport , which will repair the ruin Galley Hill Road in my constituency . be it not thank to the Government ' s rule and Budget change that we be see those change ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . it be only thank to the fiscal rule that the Chancellor introduce at last year ' s Budget and our decision — the right decision — to ensure that those fiscal rule be non - negotiable and that we keep to they at every stage that we have be able to boost investment by £ 120 billion over the course of this Parliament in many project , include those that he mention and those in constituency right across the country . that be the right thing for our country . we be just talk about chronic under - investment . we be tackle that through ensure that the Government invest across the country and by encourage private - sector investment to get business across Britain grow . will the Minister give way ? I will take a very short intervention , then I really will make progress . do the Minister agree that taxation be intrinsically link to economic growth and that there be already green shoot of recovery in the economy , with three trade deal and five interest rate cut ? my hon . friend be absolutely right ; economic growth be of course critical to our plan . she point to the trade deal that we secure . she and other hon . member will know that the UK be the fast - grow G7 economy in the first half of this year . there be much more for we to do , but we be show that because of the right decision that we have take we be start to move in the right direction . will the Minister give way ? I probably should . I will give way one more time . I do not want the Minister to speculate , but I want he to consider something . we talk about people not pay taxis . a significant minority of owner of second home in my constituency let their property out for just a few day a year ; as a result , they can claim to be a small business and pay no council tax or business rate . People on the minimum wage in my constituency be subsidise those people who pay no council tax at all . will he change that situation to protect our community ? I congratulate the hon . gentleman on an inventive way of encourage I to speculate on tax measure . I be aware of the issue that he point to , and I thank he for raise it in this context , but I be not able to make any decision on taxation at the Dispatch Box today . let I go back briefly to the broad context . it be absolutely crystal clear from the open remark of the right hon . member for Central Devon , and from what all his colleague have say so far , that Conservative Members be still in total denial about any responsibility they have for the situation that the country find itself in . they act as if be behind the wheel for 14 year be irrelevant to where we find ourselves now . it may be that they think that if they do not talk about it , the british people may forget the last government ' s responsibility for get we into the current situation , but the british people know that the Conservatives do this to our country . that be why the british people put their faith in we at the last election . while there be clearly more to do to bring down inflation and the cost of borrowing , it be clear that we have turn a corner by take the right decision for our country . we have take the decision to address the black hole in the public finance , fix our foundation and clear up the mess that we inherit from the previous Government . as a consequence , as I mention a moment ago , in the first half of this year we be the fast - grow economy in the G7 ; we outpace France , Germany , Japan and the United States . since take office , this Government have welcome around £ 100 billion in investment into the UK , with 384 , 000 job be create over the same period . we have cut red tape and change planning regulation to deliver 1 . 5 million new home over the course of this Parliament . we already have nearly 100 , 000 new home on large development that be previously stick in the planning system or simply not progress as fast as they should be ; they be now be give the support that they need to make that progress quickly . in just over a year , the Bank of England have cut interest rate five time , which mean that someone on a tracker mortgage of just over £ 200 , 000 will be well off by around £ 100 a month . crucially , real wage have rise more in the time since the last election than they do in the first 10 year of the previous Government . the choice at the next Budget be clear . over 14 year , the last Government make wrong choice time and again . they , their many Prime Ministers and many chancellor all embrace the cycle of austerity , debt and decline , and we will never repeat that . we will continue to invest in Britain ' s renewal , use every power at our disposal to drive forward an economy that work for work people . as I say , the Government do not respond to speculation , especially ahead of a Budget , and in any case we be not write a Budget this far out . the Budget that the Chancellor deliver in November will be carefully consider and design to get the balance right between make work people well off and raise enough money to fund our public service and get the country move once again through investment and growth . of course , it will also undergo proper scrutiny by the OBR . I be go briefly to address the taxis mention in the motion , but I suspect that I should skip over that part of my speech . [ interruption . ] I be get a gentle indication from you , Madam Deputy Speaker , that I have come to the right conclusion . if we be to get this country move again , investment from both business and Government be essential . we must therefore strike the right balance in our tax system , so that we can put more money in the pocket of work people while support the private sector to invest and grow and fund our public service . member on both side of the House will have their own view on what the right balance be , and I look forward to hear those view today . I thank all hon . and right hon . member in advance for their contribution . rise — before I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson , I inform the House that all back Benchers will be on a time limit of four minute . I begin by add my voice and that of my party to the other who have welcome the hon . member for Chipping Barnet ( Dan Tomlinson ) to the Front Bench . like so many other thing , property taxis in this country be break and hopelessly out of date . council tax be regressive ; stamp duty be a transaction tax that slow growth ; and business rate be a tax on brick and mortar that bear no relationship whatever to the amount of money a business might make . it be quite extraordinary that the official Opposition have choose to debate property taxis , give that I can barely remember any discussion at all in the last Parliament about thing that they want to tackle in that area . in particular , they do not tackle any of the three thing I have mention . if it be true that the Labour Government be now think about bite the bullet and bring forward fair alternative to those thing , I commend they for look at the issue . however , I caution the Government not to repeat the job tax fiasco . go after property simply as a Treasury tax grab will be a disaster if the Government do not set out a broad vision for property taxation and for housing as a whole . we agree with part of the Conservatives ' motion today . we agree with their call to rule out capital gain tax on primary residence . in the general election , we Liberal Democrats set out a way of reform capital gain tax to make it fair , one that would reduce that tax for two third of people already pay it and increase it for the super - wealthy . that would have raise more revenue than the carte blanche measure that the Labour Government have pursue , so we agree with that part of the motion . we also agree with the Conservatives that the property levy that have be describe in newspaper would be a disaster . it would choke up the housing market , stop people from downsize and slow economic growth , so I hope that if Ministers be consider any of these thing , they look at the reaction there have be . in my constituency of Henley and Thame , the average house price be £ 515 , 000 . do my hon . friend agree that the property tax describe by the Government so far would be a tax on the south - east and London ? I absolutely agree with my hon . friend . he will know , as I do from my constituency of St Albans , that many people have spend decade and decade live in their property , which they might have buy for a few thousand pound . it might now be worth a huge amount , but they might be asset - rich and cash - poor . People in that situation be incredibly scared by the report they have see in newspaper of a potential tax of the kind that have be describe . there be part of the Conservatives ' motion we agree with , however we be open in principle to the idea of a land value tax . in principle , land value taxis can create more fairness in the system and produce a more efficient use of land , but of course , the devil be always in the detail . it would depend on the design of any land value tax and any exemption that might be introduce . we Liberal Democrats have previously set out policy for how we would replace the break business rate system with a commercial landowner levy . that be an example of how the principle of land value could be apply to commercial land . many tourism industry business in Torbay raise concern about the impact of Airbnb , both on safety and legality . surely the Government should publish their long - await short - term let registration scheme as a matter of urgency . I could not agree more with my hon . friend . I would love to see that registration programme , although we Liberal Democrats have repeatedly say that it be only the first step . registration be something that the Airbnb - type platform actually want , because it enable they to pinch property from other platform . it do not solve the problem we have of lot of additional home be use as Airbnbs , not by young people — or , in fact , by anybody who want to be able to rent a property in their area . it be important that local authority have the power to strike the right balance between tourism and enable the people they need in their local area to afford to live there . my hon . friend make an extremely good point . in my constituency , we have see a collapse in the long - term private rent sector , which have push hundred of people out of our community — they be not able to contribute , to be part of the workforce , or to send their child to our school . surely , an answer would be the ability to create short - term let as a separate category of planning use , just as we be call for with second home . that would allow council and national park to make sure there be enough home for local people to live in . again , I absolutely agree with my hon . friend . I recall — as I be sure he do — that in the previous Parliament , we Liberal Democrats table a number of amendment to legislation introduce by the Conservatives , to try to make that happen . unfortunately , those amendment be not accept by the now official opposition . in principle , a land value tax could help address land banking . all of we in this House say that we want to build on brownfield first , but of course , part of the problem be that big developer can land bank . we Liberal Democrats have repeatedly try to table amendment to ensure that local authority could buy that land at land value , rather than hope value . in principle , there be some merit to at least consider a land value tax , but the devil will be in the detail . if the Government bring forward any such proposal , we will scrutinise they closely . there be a couple of major omission from the official Opposition ' s motion , one of which — as I have already outline — be business rate . business rate be a property tax face small business , and the business rate system be break . we have hear repeat promise , both from the previous Government and this one , that business rate will be fix , so it be incredibly disappointing that as yet , we have not see an ambition to replace the business rate system . instead , we have see tinker around the edge , and the Government ' s proposal will potentially make business rate a little bit bad , particularly as they will target hospitality . there be another major omission : the motion should refer to give local authority real power to regulate the location and number of short - term let , particularly in the south - west and Cumbria , but also in many other area . Queen Camel Community Land Trust be work to create much - need home in south Somerset , but it be often hamper by lack of access to finance and an outdated planning system . do my hon . friend agree that this Government should focus on community - lead development to deliver the affordable home that be so greatly need — home that community want , and will appreciate ? I agree . we be discuss property taxation , but of course , taxation on its own without a broad vision for property may well lead we towards the kind of fiasco we have with the job tax . there absolutely should be a community - lead planning system , rather than the top - down planning system we have under the previous Government , and have under this one , too . in my constituency of St Albans , Airbnbs be a real problem . a previous Conservative Housing Secretary give approval for office to be turn into block of flat , but local authority be give no power to control how that happen . that mean that many young people who get a job in my constituency can not afford to take it up unless they live with mum and dad . they can not even afford to rent a place , let alone get on the housing ladder . it be absolutely essential that the Government not only come forward with a registration scheme for short - term rental , but give local authority real power to regulate the number and location of Airbnbs , so that we can get the balance right between tourism and home for young people and other who want to live where they work . Royal Assent I have to notify the House , in accordance with the Royal Assent Act 1967 , that the King have signify his Royal Assent to the follow act : Universal Credit Act 2025 Armed Forces Commissioner Act 2025 . property Taxes Debate resume . I appreciate the opportunity to speak in this debate . I want to take on the challenge set by the shadow Chancellor , the right hon . member for Central Devon ( Sir Mel Stride ) , so let we talk about how we get to this point , and the devastating consequence . under the last government , despite 27 tax rise , Government debt rise from 60 % of gdp to 100 . 5 % . they be borrow for day - to - day spending . the shadow Chancellor talk about unfunded commitment ; he know about those , because the last Government leave a £ 22 billion black hole of unfunded commitment . he say he care about property ownership , but the last Government be responsible for a 6 % fall in home ownership among people age between 25 and 34 . that be on his watch . this government be build 1 . 5 million new home , include record number of council home and social property . we also have renter ' right reform , and we be look into mortgage reform . that be about ensure a fair and more affordable housing mix for all . what drive that fall in young people own home ? we have to look to inflation , which peak at 11 . 1 % under the last Conservative Government , almost hit Margaret Thatcher ' s record of 17 % . the Conservatives seem to be comfortable with high interest rate ; in 2022 , food inflation hit a 45 - year high . in 2023 , the UK record the high inflation rate in western Europe ; it be the only country to have double - digit inflation . under this government , we have have five interest rate cut in only a year . the real cost of high interest rate can be find in the number of child live in poverty . there be a 20 % increase in child poverty between 2014 and 2024 . food bank demand rise by 3 , 772 % under the Conservative Government . in 2010 , approximately 2 . 3 % of child be live in relative poverty . in 2024 , the figure be 4 . 5 % , and that be shameful . it be the big fall in living standard on record , but under this government , wage be finally rise fast than price . we have see the result of cut in spending , particularly on youth service , which have a 73 % real - term cut under the last government . this government be put £ 88 million back into youth club . be that what the Conservatives want to cut ? finally , I want to talk about business . the shadow Chancellor say that nobody on this side of the House have experience of start , run and grow a business . I , for one , have do that , as have many other on the Government Benches . he should get to know his colleague before he make those assertion . after a summer of rumour tax rise , my constituent be deeply concerned . they be already pay more , because Labour break its promise to freeze council tax , break its promise not to increase national insurance , and break its promise to first - time buyer , small business and farmer . thank to the Chancellor ' s anti - business policy , growth forecast be collapse , borrowing cost be sky - high , and our national finance be shoot . instead of look at its reckless decision , Labour be now calculate the good way to raise taxis , and my constituent be worried that the Chancellor be eye up their family home . in Bromley and Biggin Hill , on the edge of Greater London , home be expensive . the average house price be well over half a million pound , and there be rumour that the Government may scrap the private residence relief , which would be devastating . it would slap my constituent with an average £ 33 , 000 tax bill when they sell their family home . if someone have scrimp and save , and be lucky enough to see the value of their home go up , they should not be hand a punitive tax bill . it only serve to knock work people back down when they be try to get ahead . resident in Bromley , like those in Bexley , have be hit by the Mayor of London ' s 77 % increase in his share of council tax since he take office , alongside various drive taxis . do my hon . friend agree that this increase in property taxis would be the straw that break the camel ' s back for many resident ? I agree that the Mayor of London , Sadiq Khan , be cause resident in Bromley and Bexley real financial hardship . however , I in no way believe that this will be the final straw — the final way that the Mayor of London can find to damage my constituent and those of my hon . friend . I be sure that he have plenty more straw , and a lot more camel to lay they on . as I be say , scrap private residence relief would be irresponsible and economically ruinous . imagine if somebody buy a house in Bromley in 2010 for £ 350 , 000 . today , it would cost somewhere in the region of £ 550 , 000 . if they want to move to a new area for work or to be close to family , without that relief , the tax bill would be somewhere in the region of £ 50 , 000 . that eye - watering bill would stop people move and wreck the housing market . that be why I urge other to support the motion , which rule out any further reckless tax rise . work people can not afford to keep bail out Labour . it be wonderful to be back for another Opposition day debate , as I be sure we can all agree . it be another debate about imagine proposal . it must be a difficult time for Opposition Members , because for so many year , this be the time of year when they be prepare for their conference and for the Budget , but this year , scant attention will be pay to they — and , of course , they be not write the Budget anymore . thank God . indeed . thank God the Conservatives be not write the Budget , because we have see what their Budgets lead to . I understand Opposition Members ' frustration . it be nice to see that they have settle into the most comfortable aspect of be in opposition . as I have say before in these debate , as a Labour party member of many year ' standing , I have a huge amount of experience of the comfort of opposition ; you start to create straw man , talk about what the Government might be do and your fear , rile your supporter , and spark up a bit of concern among they . however , the opposition be not willing to set out their actual plan for the country . [ interruption . ] an hon . friend make a good point : they do not have any . all the opposition party — again , this be the nature of the easy early year of opposition — want the benefit that result from our difficult choice , but they be unwilling to say how they would pay for they . I be sick and tired of listen to the never - never from those on the Opposition Benches . they be confident and comfortable with the imaginarium of the Budget that they believe will happen , but they be unwilling to come up with real , meaningful proposal — incapable of do so , perhaps . proposal float by the Conservatives include cut maternity pay , means - test the state pension and attack the minimum wage . we know the impact of a Conservative Budget : the grotesque chaos cause by Liz Truss and Kwasi Kwarteng . I would call that Budget a bombshell , but bombshell go off only once , and that bombshell be go off in home and community across this country every single day . family on mortgage rate that be fix for five year or long would have have low interest rate now if it have not be for that Budget . despite the five admirable and welcome interest rate cut make under this government , those family will be pay hundred or thousand of pound more a year . opposition member express concern today for those in valuable home . many of those in valuable home will understandably have significant mortgage , and many of they will have see their mortgage go up by hundred or thousand of pound , thank to the action of the previous Government — action that Opposition Members be cheerlead at the time . we be all still live with the result of those action . that be not imaginary ; that be the real consequence of their government , and it be what we be try to put behind we . the Treasury have be fly more kite than we see at the end of " Mary Poppins " in the paper over the last few week , but if they be genuine , the Chancellor be prepare the most destructive raid on homeowner in live memory . family across my constituency be brace themselves for new taxis on home worth more than £ 500 , 000 , capital gain tax on family house , a revaluation of council tax , and even a land value tax . this be not reform ; this be a sledgehammer aim squarely at aspiration , mobility and stability , and once again it be the south and the south - east that will be punish the most . in Farnham , where the average house price now exceed £ 608 , 000 with the price of detach home at nearly £ 900 , 000 , family could face annual bill of nearly £ 5 , 000 on top of mortgage , council tax and energy cost . in Haslemere , Liphook and Bordon , household will not be spare ; these levy will strip thousand from budget already stretch to the limit . and what of pensioner and downsizer in Grayshott , Churt , Bramshott , Tilford , or Frensham ? they will face the grotesque prospect of capital gain tax on their primary residence . my hon . friend talk of pensioner . do he agree that this be an extra pressure on they , follow all the concern that be cause to they by the cut in winter fuel payment ? my hon . friend be entirely right . once again , the Government be show that they do not understand and do not value pensioner and the sacrifice that they have make . everyone — pensioner , farmer and business owner — be see as a cash cow for this Government . the Conservative Government raise taxis 25 time in the last Parliament . how many of those tax rise do the hon . Gentleman oppose ? I do not want to correct the hon . Gentleman , but I be not here to oppose or support any of they . I gently remind he — I use the word " gently " because I know that the Minister love the word " gently " , so I have use it twice now — that there be a pandemic that have to be deal with , and that have to be fund . there be a war in Ukraine , and deal with that have to be fund . as we have go back in history a bit , let I add that we also have to deal with the deficit that the last Labour Government leave we . that be the reality of the situation . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? no , I will not . I have already give way a couple of time . this be a tax on the family home , and it will hit hard those who have work hard , save responsibly , and play by the rule . let we be clear : this be not simply a question of number on a balance sheet . it be about whether family can stay in the community where they raise their child , whether pensioner can pass on their home , and whether young people will ever see the ladder of opportunity come down again . a capital gain tax on main home will trap people in their property , create a lock - in market , and dry up the supply of home . transaction will slow , chain will break , and first - time buyer — the very people whom labour claim to champion — will be shut out even far . the Government have try to defend this agenda by talk about " fairness " , but there be nothing fair about a pensioner in Greatham be force to sell his or her family home to pay the taxman . there be nothing fair about young family in Lindford choose between childcare and a new annual property levy , and there be nothing fair about place the heavy burden on one region of the country simply because the value of its housing stock be high . in truth , this be a south and south - east tax dress up as national fairness ; and it be part of a pattern . from scrap the pensioner fuel allowance , mention by my hon . friend the Member for Bromley and Biggin Hill ( Peter Fortune ) , to threaten vat on private school to punitive business tax rise , every single decision seem to be about send a political signal rather than support family or grow the economy . the consequence be plain to see : fall business confidence , another year of negative hire expectation , and grow unemployment . Wasn ' t the Government ' s White Paper mean to be call " get Britain Working " ? all we be see be Britain grind to a halt . the Chancellor may talk of fairness , but she be strip away the last sanctuary for work people — the roof over their head . over - taxation , without clarity , will paralyse the housing market , punish my constituent , and undermine economic stability . if you tax home , you tax hope , and that be the sure way in which to drain ambition from our country . we should be protect family , not force they to sell up . we should be support aspiration , not tax it into extinction . I think the record that we , the Labour Government , have to deal with when we take over last year bear repeat . we have hear theory propound on the relationship between tax and growth and public spending , and we have hear that if we only lower taxis , we would enter a glorious period of growth and even well public service , but the fact be that the impact of those theory and that ideology over the last 14 year have be clear to see . austerity cut the engine of our economy , leave we with public service that be not deliver for british people . investment in our service and our country be cut , which leave we at the mercy of global shock that we be less well prepared and less well place to withstand . the upshot of that in my constituency have include GP waiting list that be far too long , and bus route disappear from rural village that badly need the opportunity they provide in , for instance , connect family . we have see NHS waiting list increase , whether the wait be for serious surgery , dentistry or gp access . that have result in serious ill health issue , restrict opportunity for young people , and , throughout the constituency , a restriction of opportunity and growth for the very people who will drive growth in the economy : those who start and drive small business . we have hear from Conservative Members again and again about the 1 % , and they have come out fight for that 1 % very hard today . they say that they be concerned about yearly charge on people who be just start out in life and have just buy their first home — and yes , I would love to talk about charge that have no connection with service . I be think particularly of " fleecehold " and charge from estate management company that bear no relation to the service that they provide . that be a real problem in my constituency , and I know that many of my hon . friend have raise it repeatedly . in Wingerworth , in my constituency , FirstPort have raise service charge repeatedly , but the charge be for service that my constituent have not receive and have be impose for very spurious reason . I have also hear that some resident have be force to pay for a play park when no such play park have be provide by FirstPort or any other company in the area . this mean that people who be start out — they have their mortgage , they have their home , and they just want to get on and live their life — be be subject to , in many case , charge amount to thousand of pound each year by a company that be not deliver the service that they deserve , and the same problem be occur elsewhere . we have hear horror story of charge and ground rent rise exponentially . none of these problem — I think we can all agree that they be problem — be deal with by the Conservative Government . I do not notice any particular concern be raise about they at the time . however , we will continue to fight hard for solution on this side of the House . let we look at what this Labour Government have achieve since come to office . we have see real wage rise fast than price for the first time for age , and I can not stress enough how important that be . three million people have see the minimum wage rise . this be exactly the sort of thing that lead I to join the Labour party , and it be one of our proud achievement . we be see a rise in the wage of the very poor in society , include those under 21 who be start out in their very first job . let I highlight another of our massive achievement . we in the Labour party believe that taxis be what we take to ensure that we can deliver public service . low taxis and low public service will not result in a rise in living standard . yes , we have have to make some difficult decision , but we have see NHS waiting list fall month after month , and I know that my constituent have already begin to feel the effect of that . why ? because they have tell I so . I begin by refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I represent a rural , agricultural community . as we look forward to a Budget for Christmas , this Labour UK Government ' s last autumn Budget remain of significant concern . the wide divide between rural Wales and Westminster be make clear as day last year when the Chancellor announce plan to restrict full inheritance tax relief from April next year to the first £ 1 million of combine agricultural and business property . combine APR and BPR mean that the asset value of the tool and the machinery necessary to operate a farming business be affect , as well as the agricultural land and property . while the Government maintain that this policy will affect only about 500 estate a year and that small family farm will not be affect , the calculation of the Farmers ' Union of Wales and NFU Cymru show otherwise . when I tell the Minister for Food Security and Rural Affairs that 92 % of one local accountancy firm ' s client would be hit , it be totally dismiss , but now even the producer of the research use by this Government to justify their plan have concede that work farmer be more likely to suffer under the policy than the wealthy . over half of UK farm have a net value of over £ 1 . 5 million . farmer be already worried about the family farm tax and be now look at the potential tax rise that the Government be float for the upcoming Budget , include increase rate of inheritance tax and other form of property taxis . these be our food producer , and they be write to I to ask why they should continue to sow the seed . do the hon . Lady agree that farmer need a break ? absolutely , and I will come on to that in a minute . in Wales , between 75 % and 90 % of farmer will be affect by the policy , accord to NFU Cymru and FUW . it be clear that this Government ' s apr change will not hit tax - avoid wealthy land hoarder . instead , they will punish work farmer in Wales , whose income drop by an average of 34 % last year , force many to sell what their parent and grandparent spend lifetime building . and it be not just farm business owner . Family Business UK estimate that the change will cause a £ 15 . 5 million reduction in GVA in my constituency of Caerfyrddin alone , along with the loss of 282 full - time job . the new inheritance tax rule will be introduce amid mount financial pressure on our farmer , from the financial implication of bluetongue restriction and testing requirement to the effect of Wales ' s hot summer on record on crop and pasture . our rural business will also suffer , with car garage , food wholesale business and upvc project business among those in my constituency that be hard hit by this Government ' s BPR change . all employ hundred of my constituent . we can not afford to lose our rural business or our family farm . we can not lose the knowledge , the heritage and the community — the work that sustain and feed our nation . ahead of the autumn Budget at the end of November , I call on the government once again : please reverse these change before it be too late . Diolch yn fawr . it be a pleasure to be call in this debate , even if I must start by question the wisdom of the Opposition ' s decision to bring forward today ' s motion . after all , the memory and consequence of their so - call mini - Budget be still fresh — the culmination of Liz Truss ' s economic policy , which the present Leader of the opposition say be " aspirational and inspirational " . their dream become our constituent ' nightmare — to say nothing of the Conservatives ' failure to pass renter ’ right reform , which this Government be now put through , or of their dreadful record on wage , which leave people in my constituency with £ 300 a month less , after inflation , every month . it can not be reasonably deny — although the Conservatives have try — that the incoming Government face a bedevil inheritance last July . for all the sound and fury , there be little mystery about this now . as Richard Hughes , the chair of the OBR , tell the Treasury Committee : " when we have a high - trust relationship with the Treasury those thing be be well manage , and manage within the total . that system very clearly break down … there be about £ 9 . 5 billion - worth of net pressure on Departments ’ budget , which they do not disclose … which under the law and under the Act they should have do . " what a disgraceful set of affair , and decision that await the Government on public sector pay have be duck and delay until after the election . we need to be clear about this : Conservative Ministers already know the recommendation of the schoolteacher review body . they also know that the recommendation of each pay review body tend to be similar . why be those recommendation delay , give that the pay year start not in July or even at the beginning of the pre - election period , but in April ? it be because Conservative Ministers and their Departments submit the remit letter and their evidence late . as the Office of Manpower Economics say in its 2022 efficiency review : " the work of the prbs be demand lead and essentially non - negotiable — department set the remit and timetable . " there we have it : the additional cost be always come , and the only reason why it come seven month into an election year be because Conservative Ministers be content for it to be so delay . today opposition Front Benchers claim that they would have reject the recommendation , but not once have any Opposition Member have the courage to say how much less they would have pay nurse , paramedic , teacher , police officer and armed force personnel in each of our constituency . be any Opposition Members able to enlighten we today ? no . the reality be that they want the investment that mean 25 , 000 few people be on a University Hospitals Birmingham waiting list compare with last year , and which be almost double the free school meal entitlement in my constituency of Birmingham Northfield , but they do not support a single measure to pay for it . we should be clear in say that strong public service create value . business and work people in all our constituency need road , school and hospital that be resource and decent . as the hon . Member represent Birmingham Northfield , do he believe that resident in Birmingham deserve to get their bin collect in return for their council tax payment ? the hon . member tempt I to get draw into a discussion to which , in one minute and 30 second , I do not have enough time to do justice . of course we need a bin service that be fit and decent — I have speak about that many time in this House . what my constituent do not need be the sharp cut in resource of any unitary authority in the entire country , couple with the sharp increase in council tax , and those be sign off by Conservative Ministers . I have in front of I the impact assessment of the 10 % council tax increase from January last year , which say : " the decision for Ministers across Government , as no . 10 and HMT clearance will be need , be whether to grant these increase . " that be the legacy of the hon . member ' s party for my constituent : the high spending cut and the high tax rise . the last thing they need be a return to the fail approach of the Conservatives , who deserve to be remind of that every time they bring such a debate to this House . this Government be elect on a manifesto to increase spending by £ 9 . 5 billion . that be to be pay for through £ 7 . 3 billion of extra taxis and £ 3 . 5 billion of extra borrowing , all of which be set out in the labour manifesto . it be a modest plan with a prudent margin — exactly the sort of plan one might expect a party in opposition to put forward to show that it can be trust to run the public finance . Labour Members might reflect on the fact that have they implement the plan , the british economy would be in well condition than at present . in its first Budget , Labour increase public expenditure not by £ 9 . 5 billion , but by £ 70 billion . how those on the Labour Benches cheer with delight at the thought of all the extra spending : pay rise for train driver , with no condition ; pay rise for junior doctor , with no string ; money for great British Energy ; and more money for the British Business Bank — all so the Government can invest in project that the private sector do not think will make a return . we all know how this story end : Labour will use all the business acuman that the Cabinet have at its disposal to create a modern version of British Leyland . it be what Labour do good : spend other people ' s money , and borrow yet more money that other people ' s child can repay . but all this extra spending and borrowing come at a price , and the Government be now pay 5 . 7 % interest to borrow money for 30 year . that be the high level since 1998 , and this surge in borrowing cost reflect the market ' s lack of confidence in the Chancellor ' s ability to manage Britain ' s finance . do the hon . Gentleman accept that the surge in borrowing cost actually start with Liz Truss ' s mini - Budget and have not really stop since the trajectory start ? I do not accept that at all . this surge be entirely due to the Chancellor lose control of public expenditure , and the increase cost of service our national debt add further pressure on the british taxpayer . have present her Budget , the Chancellor say : " we ' re not go to be come back with more tax increase , or indeed more borrowing . " the problem be that no one believe she . the market do not believe she , and Labour Back Benchers certainly do not believe she . they now know that they only have to threaten to rebel on any item of public expenditure and the Chancellor will cave . we see that on the welfare reform Bill , which be bring forward to save a modest £ 4 . 5 billion . what happen ? the first whiff of a rebellion , and the Bill be gutte , leave the taxpayer to pick up the cost . in that context , over the summer we see briefing from the Treasury testing the water on a whole series of potential tax rise : high rate of council tax , a land value tax , capital gain tax on family home , lower the threshold for inheritance tax and an annual property levy on the family home . no wonder the Deputy Prime Minister be be so careful about which of her many home be her primary residence . the Chancellor be clearly desperate to raise more money . it be a cruel irony , be it not , that have invent a £ 22 billion black hole to justify she tax and spending , the Chancellor now find herself face a black hole entirely of her own making ? it be her job tax and other tax rise that have cause the economy to slow and unemployment to rise . her increase in public expenditure have fuel inflation , which have lead to high wage demand and increase benefit cost . that be exactly the problem . many business in my constituency — and , dare I say it , in other — be say to we as member of Parliament that they want to but dare not invest in grow their business , because they do not know what increase in taxis be come down the line from this Chancellor . do my hon . friend share my concern that business be reluctant to invest right now in the project they want to deliver for the growth of their own enterprise ? I agree . it be the threat of high taxis that be cause the economy to stall . rather than reduce the size of the state so that it be affordable , the Government give every indication of want it to grow far . the fundamental reason that this Government need to raise taxis be that they be incapable of control the fiscal incompetence of their own Back Benchers . at their core , Labour mp genuinely believe that the state can spend our constituent ' money well than they can spend it themselves . they do not believe in thrift or self - reliance , and they see no limit on the size of the state . opposition member know that it be businessman and businesswoman across Britain who create wealth and growth . success be the result of hard work , take risk , satisfy customer and employ neighbour . the Government should provide the environment for those business to thrive , rather than threaten every part of the economy with high taxis . as my hon . friend the Member for Gateshead Central and Whickham ( Mark Ferguson ) point out , the motion we be debate be base purely on medium speculation . it also conveniently overlook the Conservatives ' own disastrous record . let we not forget that it be the Conservatives who preside over 14 year of failure , during which the very foundation of our economy rot away . it be on their watch that taxis be increase 25 time in the last Parliament and the cost of mortgage soar , cripple family finance across the country . we have hear conservative member talk about covid , and Russia and Ukraine — and some even seem to acknowledge the travesty that be Liz Truss . however , a 2021 report from the cross - party Treasury Committee highlight that the OBR have be warn since 2011 about an " unsustainable " fiscal trajectory in the public finance , although the Government fail to engage with that fact . who be the Chair of the Treasury Committee make that shrewd analysis ? it be of course the current shadow Chancellor . before we get to Russia , covid and the disaster of Liz Truss , the Conservatives have already be mismanage our economy . now the Conservatives come to this House to complain about a Budget that have not even be write , offer no credible economic plan of their own and continue to make unfunded promise . this Labour Government take immediate emergency action to stabilise our economy , and make difficult but absolutely necessary decision . we be already see the early sign of promise : wage be now rise fast than price ; we have have five interest rate cut , bring down the cost of mortgage ; and we have secure three major trade deal . the hon . member and a number of his colleague have refer to the reduction in interest rate as the sign of a grow economy . if he even google it , he would realise that the first explanation for the Bank of England reduce interest rate be that it be worried about a weakening economy . do he not realise that ? the foundation for be able to cut interest rate be a stable economy , and that be exactly what the Bank of England have do . we be put more money directly into people ' s pocket , lift the minimum wage for 3 million worker and deliver free breakfast club for all primary school pupil . we be get Britain build again by reform the planning system to cut through red tape , bring in hundred of new planning officer and make a record investment of £ 39 billion in affordable housing . we be commit to build 1 . 5 million new home , so people be not lock out of the dream of home ownership . we be correct the mistake of successive conservative government with the crucial £ 113 billion in extra capital investment right across the country to boost our infrastructure and catalyse high - growth sector . crucially , we have have to make difficult but fair decision on taxation — decision that ensure that the rich and large business pay more — because we urgently need to invest in the public service that the Conservatives run into the ground . that mean vital investment in our NHS , school and other essential service that all my constituent tell I we need . it be only because of the revenue measure apply by this Government , which the conservative party repeatedly oppose , that we be able to make that investment . as many other have say , the Opposition party want all the benefit of our difficult choice , but refuse to say how they would pay for they . they talk about growth , but they consistently attempt to block measure to get our country building and they have be hold our economy back for far too long . as the Prime Minister and the Chancellor have say , the next phase of this Government be singularly focused on make work people well off , improve living standard across the entire country , boost british job and deliver the renewal that our country desperately need . we will not be sway by opposition motion base on their fantasy , or by those who offer no credible solution themselves . I have be tell that we be speculate today , so I do not know whether I have to refer to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . however , in an abundance of caution , I declare that I be a homeowner and I also have property for rent . the kid in Downing Street — whether in no . 11 or no . 10 — think it be clever to fly kite about tax rise . we have it last year , from 4 July onwards , with briefing to the press say there would be tax rise because of a wholly fabricate £ 22 billion black hole in the economy . that be fabricate as a fig leaf for tax rise that be not in the manifesto . from July to October , those story drip in one after the other — and what be the impact ? it have be the collapse in business confidence to pandemic level , the collapse in consumer confidence as a result , and unemployment begin its inexorable rise month after month for every single month that this Government have be in office . now the Government be at it again . they have not realise their past terrible mistake , and they be do it once more . despite raise taxis by £ 40 billion last October and increase borrowing by another £ 32 billion , they have create a genuine black hole , which the National Institute of Economic and Social Research suggest mean that about £ 51 billion be require in high taxis or low spending . the briefing have start again — a property levy on mansion , the replacement of stamp duty with a national property tax , national insurance contribution on rental income and capital gain tax on primary residence with a value of more than £ 1 . 5 million . even which ? magazine have say there may be change to the in - life gift regime to reduce inheritance tax . do my hon . friend accept that speculation about all those new additional taxis cause more uncertainty , which itself cause the economy to slow far ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . do the Government not recognise that posturing from the Government Benches do not come for free ? construction activity have have a big fall recently than in the last five year due to the leak from no . 10 and no . 11 . the commercial property sector be in recession . there be hire freeze and staff be be lay off . People be lose their job because of the Government ' s kite fly . residential property price have a surprise fall last year . we be ask to believe that growth be the no . 1 priority of this Government . they say they be go to build 1 . 5 million house during this Parliament . merely say that do not make it true , when their policy serve to do exactly the opposite . if member do not believe I , look at the market — they be not politician . look at the 30 - year gilt that the Government be pay today . government debt be now run at 5 . 73 % . that be the high rate this century . the market think that further tax increase will damage growth . that mean they will damage the fiscal environment in the future . we will have less tax in the future because of the tax - raise decision the Government be apparently go to take in November . labour be plan , literally , to rob Peter to pay Paul . this be no way to run an economy . as someone much more famous than I once say , the problem with socialism be that you eventually run out of other people ' s money . stop now . stop before it be too late to avoid a vicious debt spiral . I fear — I genuinely fear this — that the Government will be force to cut spending . they have two option : they can be force to do so by the market in a chaotic fiscal event , or they can take the responsibility of government seriously and take the difficult but necessary decision on spend that the country need they to take as a responsible government . otherwise , they will be sweep away by their own incompetence . I rise to speak against the motion on tax . I welcome the Chief Secretary to the Treasury , my hon . friend the Member for Ealing North ( James Murray ) , and his well - deserve promotion . we all know that if we share in growth , we make the country more prosperous and we make it strong . tax , of course , help to pay for the investment that make we all more prosperous . under the previous Government , we do not invest in our country and we see a weak nation as a result : the high energy bill in the G7 ; the bad waiting list ever see in this nation ; and the bad transport infrastructure in western Europe . that be what this Government be fix and that be what we be do with the taxis we have raise . the Opposition motion speak of property taxis — this from the party that dash the dream of home ownership for my generation . some 40 % of those under 30 live with mum and dad . young people live in big city pay 40 % of their income on rent , unable to save for a house because of the amount they be pay in housing cost . that be precisely the kind of thing we be fix when we invest to build social housing — £ 40 billion - worth . but of course , all that need to be pay for and that be exactly what we do with the taxis we raise . that be why we be proud of the country we be build , where every single one of we be well off . crucially , the taxis we raise follow three principle : that they be progressive , raise more from those on high income than from those on middle and low income ; that they be growth enhance , both in the way that they be apply and in the investment they pay for ; and that we can implement they easily . those be the three principle that our taxis face in the autumn : close a non - dom loophole for those at the top of society ; ask the large business to pay more , so we can reduce our waiting list ; and increase the taxis on second home , so we can build home for every single person in this nation . the revenue raise from those who can most afford it make each one of we well off — that be what this Government be about . the Opposition want to leave we with a nation where we be weak : where we do not invest in our collective prosperity , as they do not for the last 14 year ; and where we see , instead of a nation that be united and share in our prosperity , one that be divide . a house that be divide against itself can not stand and a nation that be as divide as ours will not stand . it be for we to invest in every corner of this country , so that every person can benefit . that be exactly what we be do in our economic programme and that be exactly the kind of investment we be pay for through our taxis . we build a strong nation when each of we share in our prosperity , and we help to achieve that through our tax system when we invest to get wage rise , waiting list down and energy bill down — a strong nation where each of we be do well , raise living standard that for too long have be far too low , help people to be able to afford a home , help they to raise a family , help they to pay their bill without have to worry about their overdraft , and share , each of we , in our nation ' s prosperity . that be what this Government be do , that be what we be build and that be what we be proud to be a part of . here we be , well over a year into this new Administration , this new Labour Government , and it be clear that they have fundamentally mismanage the economy in their first year in office . what do we see ? borrowing cost up , growth flatlining , taxis rise and business be absolutely hammer . to fix this mess to the tune of £ 50 billion — who know what it might be — Labour be now threaten to hike taxis on anyone they have not already squeeze into submission . it be clear that the Labour Government be come after people ' s property . it be not enough for they to legislate to compulsorily purchase people ' s garden and home by give local authority and Natural England more power through the Planning and Infrastructure Bill , and to acquire they not at market value , but at a disregarded value relate to agricultural property value if they be a farm . if the government do not manage to grab it , they certainly intend to tax it . as if that tax on people ' s home or garden be not bad enough , Labour be also come after people ' s business . through the change to inheritance tax relief , agricultural property relief and business property relief , the Government have destroy one of the sole business environment that our community and business rely on — the ability to pass an asset on to the next generation and for they to earn an income from it . across my constituency , soft furniture maker such as Fibreline , brewer , farmer , hotel and those involve in the hospitality sector have all actively take the decision to slow the amount of investment they be willing to put in to grow their own business . why ? because of the threat come out of the Labour Government ' s previous Budget in October last year and the Budget come down the line . my hon . friend be make a powerful speech . he mention the hospitality sector . do he recognise the Government ' s cruel decision to reduce the business rate discount for the hospitality sector from 75 % to 40 % ? it do not sound too bad , but it be actually a tax increase of 140 % on the struggle hospitality sector . what impact do he think that have on future investment plan ? my hon . friend make a valid point . many of our family business , whether in the hospitality sector or in other sector , be actively withhold a level of investment in their business which they want to grow and thrive . I have speak to many farming business and many family business in my constituency who have work out what their BPR or their APR liability be likely to be over a 10 - year plan , and be therefore hold the level of investment back , because they may have to give it to the Chancellor and not invest it for the future growth of their business . that be not good for the health of the community and business we represent . then there be council tax , with the loom threat of council tax revaluation potentially come down the line , raise the council tax liability on many constituent , with property potentially move into high tax band . Bradford resident , who include those in Keighley , Ilkley , Silsden and the Worth valley , have already have our council tax raise by 10 % . this threat be be add by the Labour Government when council tax be increase . and then there be the cut to business rate relief , which be impact many of our business . with the threat of a revaluation process come down the line , I want to raise the case of the Valuation Office Agency . just this morning , I speak to the Rock family , who have develop Providence Park in Keighley , with a huge amount of public funding go into the project . despite the project complete its construction phase in April , they be now be tell that despite an application be submit , the valuation office be not even progress with provide the business rate liability . it will therefore be more difficult for the Rock family to let those business premise . what be the Minister do right now to put pressure on the valuation office to get a grip , pull its finger out and get those rate look at , not just for Providence Park , but for the many business up and down the country that be struggle to get understanding from the valuation office ? this debate be about property taxis . we know that the Government have indicate that they be go to come for property owner in the Budget that be come down the line — they indicate it in the previous Budget through the change they make to inheritance tax . the Government must change course for the health and the good of the economic prosperity of our country . like my family and friend and the people of my city , I see at first hand the economic failure and harm do to the people of this country under 14 year of the previous Government — harm to our council service , armed force and public service , the special educational need and disability system , NHS waiting list , rent and mortgage cost , wage , prison place number , police number and safety on our street . it be 14 year of make - up unfunded promise and commitment — 14 year in which the previous Government give up on Pompey , on Britain and on everyone in it , leave we as a Government to clear up their mess . fourteen year can not be clean up overnight — it take time — but , Madam Deputy Speaker , clean it up we be . I welcome the investment in my constituency , include £ 13 . 8 billion for flood defence to protect our home ; £ 2 . 2 billion for the defence sector , which will protect job in my city and provide great opportunity for our small and medium - sized enterprise ; £ 4 . 8 million for well bus , allow well transport ; £ 2 . 7 million on fix pothole to repair the crumble street we live on and stop the damage be do to our vehicle ; £ 2 . 3 million for upgrade school and college building so that our young people have a safe environment to learn ; £ 1 . 9 million in additional SEND funding to start the process of patch up the mess , which the previous Government say be a lose - lose situation ; and £ 1 . 2 million in additional funding for temporary accommodation to house some of the most desperate family in my city . we be see investment into solar panel on public building to reduce cost and protect the environment , safe street programme in North End and Cosham , in addition to name police officer , as well as free school meal and breakfast club to support pupil . I just want to pick up on the hon . Lady ' s point about free school meal , because these meal be not free . I speak with a school in my constituency just last week that have be mandate to provide these so - call free school meal . however , the meal be have to come out of the school ' s own budget . can we change the narrative associate with the rhetoric that this Labour Government be put out ? as a former teacher , I say no . I will continue with the term free school meal . we be also see breakfast club to support pupil and family at the start of every day , additional nursery allocation to help work parent with the crazy cost of childcare , and investment in our NHS . all of those measure be the result of have a Labour Government and two Labour mps in Portsmouth . I could go on , because that be just the tip of the iceberg of the investment and initiative that be very much need by the people of my city . this be reality , not imagination , speculation or politicking — not , in the word of the motion today , " consider " , but action . none of that would have be possible without the decision of this Government . some , I admit , have be difficult , and some have be very necessary , such as place the burden of tax on the very wealthy , with private jet tax up 50 % , stamp duty on second home , change to inheritance tax on big landowner , the scrapping of non - dom status , the ending of offshore trust to stop inheritance tax avoidance , and vat on private school . do the Minister agree that the investment like those in Portsmouth North be possible only because of the decision and action we have take to raise revenue ? those decision , Madam Deputy Speaker , be repeatedly oppose by the Opposition . in bring this debate , which be — in the word of Willy Wonka — one of " pure imagination " , they appear not to be consider an alternative , but to be go back to the status quo of 14 year of cut and damage to Britain . this debate have be full of amnesia and slope shoulder , with no regret and not one apology . it be a debate set to talk Britain and its people down — a debate ignore the most positive thing this Government have bring to the people of my city and this country . for the final contribution from the Back Benches , I call Melanie Ward . here we be , with another Opposition day debate and another tedious motion from the Conservatives that completely ignore the catastrophic economic inheritance they leave for this Labour Government come into power . their decision to put Liz Truss into Downing Street be something they will never quite live down . it really do stick in the craw to be lecture on sound economic management by they . we have have some fine example of that today , with the hon . member for Bridgwater ( Sir Ashley Fox ) state his belief that speculation about future measure damage the economy . why , then , have the Conservatives today put down a motion that be entirely about speculation ? it make no sense , even on their own term . in government , the Conservatives do untold economic damage to the UK ' s public finance , and the Chancellor be right to prioritise investment in our infrastructure and public service while ensure sound economic management . the Conservatives talk of want to put more money in people ' s pocket , yet they preside over the bad pay growth of any Government for a century . have the Conservatives — and , we must not forget , the Liberal Democrats for a while — grow wage between 2010 and 2024 at the same pace as the previous Labour Government , the average worker would be £ 117 a week well off . [ interruption . ] opposition Members may heckle , but that be real money that could be in my constituent ' pocket which be not because of what their government do . it be this Labour Government who be put money back in people ' s pocket . our increase to the national minimum wage mean that wage be rise fast than price , and 8 , 000 low - pay Fifers this year receive a pay rise , include thousand in my constituency of Cowdenbeath and Kirkcaldy . let we not forget that the Leader of the Opposition say that the minimum wage be a burden and that maternity pay be excessive . it be the Labour Government ' s stewardship of the economy that mean interest rate have fall five time and average mortgage be now £ 1 , 000 a year less than when the Conservatives be in power . again , that be real money in the pocket of my constituent . my constituent know that it be this Labour Government and this Labour Chancellor who have prioritise Kirkcaldy for multimillion - pound regeneration funding as part of the growth mission fund , begin the transformation of our town centre , which be neglect for a decade and a half by the Tories , and for almost two decade by their enabler in the Scottish National party . the old clich é that to govern be to choose be correct . all politic be about choice , and the difference between this Labour Government and the opposition be that we have choose to invest in our community , in our public service and in increase economic activity and wage , after they fail to do so under five Prime Ministers and seven Chancellors . we now come to the wind - up . I call the shadow Secretary of State . before I get into my speech , I genuinely welcome the Exchequer Secretary to the Treasury , the hon . member for Chipping Barnet ( Dan Tomlinson ) , to the Treasury Bench and to his position in the Treasury . I give the House due notice that I do not intend to take intervention ; the hon . Gentleman will have a tough enough job defend the indefensible as it be , and I do not want to curtail his time any more than I strictly have to . the Labour party love tax , and that have be on display in the Chamber this afternoon . when give the opportunity , Labour have be very critical of we . it be only fair to say that in government we do put up taxis more than we would have want . however , I do not remember Labour Members criticise our expenditure when we be support business and individual through furlough ; I do not remember they criticise our decision to support people with their fuel bill in response to Russia ' s brutal invasion of Ukraine . labour like the spending when it come . a number of Government Members stand up and criticise we for put up taxis — a bold move , bear in mind that that be exactly what they be go to do later on this year . if I be wrong in my estimation , if I have be unfair , or if I have mis - categorise the heart and soul of those on the Government Benches , I will break the rule that I make just a moment ago and take an intervention from any Government Member who be willing to stand up and say that they want to see taxis come down — I think not . rise — no , I will not give way . the hon . Member have his chance . this be the point : the Government love put up taxis . we in the conservative party put up taxis when we have to ; this Government put up taxis at every chance they get . and the reason they put up taxis whenever they get the chance to do so be that they think taxis be not a necessary evil , but a good in and of itself . that be at the heart of the problem . the fact that gilt market , bond market , business and individual know in their heart of heart that taxis will go up under this Government have produce the stagnation and the stifling that Labour Members be criticise . I be about to say that we have have a number of good contribution from both side of the House , but that be be generous . the simple fact of the matter be that a key indicator of confidence in a Government be the cost of borrowing , and , currently , that be at a multi - decade high . as we have say , it have not be high this century ; it be trend in the wrong direction . the Bank of England , when set interest rate , make it clear that it be concerned about the trajectory — specifically the trajectory on property taxis . those on the Treasury Bench say that they do not want to speculate on what might be in the Budget later this year . they do not want this House to investigate what they claim to be speculation . they probably should not have spend so much time brief the medium over the summer . they can not have it both way . we be ask legitimate question of the Government , because the market and the country be worried about what be happen and we want to allay their fear . will my right hon . friend give way ? no , I will not give way . let I just say this : if we be to address the slowing of the housing market , we should make sure — [ interruption . ] I say " we " , but labour be in government now and it should therefore make sure that it do nothing to stagnate the market far . speculation be rife that there will be a £ 14 , 000 tax bill on average for UK household , a £ 23 , 000 tax bill for those in the south - east , and potentially an average tax bill of £ 33 , 000 for property transaction . that be the Government ' s fault . they have the opportunity to put that speculation to bed and they choose not to do so . despite the fact that they be now in government , they do not seem to have learn the lesson that when they speak — whether it be on or off the record — market move . that be why speculation among those on the Government Benches be so damaging and so dangerous . they be cause economic problem because of their kite fly . we have give they an opportunity to put one of those piece of speculation to bed and they have fail to do so . in that failure , the mask have slip — they want to put up taxis . they love put up taxis and they be go to put up taxis . I call the new Minister . I thank the shadow Secretary of State for Housing , Communities and Local Government for bring the debate to a close for the Opposition and for the welcome that he have give I as I move down to the Front Bench . I also thank my right hon . friend the Chief Secretary to the Treasury for his speech and congratulate he on his promotion to Cabinet . he be a fantastic Exchequer Secretary , and I will do my good to carry out the role with the same diligence and effectiveness . I also wish to put on record that , although I may be stand at the Dispatch Box for the first time , my respect for this place and for the member on both side of this House and on all Benches will remain . the Commons , after all , be the heart of our democracy . the importance of Ministers be hold to account and of mps vote and debate on big issue — and on Opposition Day debate — and , crucially , of the public be able to hold we all to account will never diminish in my mind . I look forward to continue to work constructively with member from all part of the House as we discuss and debate the important and very interesting topic of tax policy . under the leadership of the Chancellor and the Prime Minister , this Government be turn the page on 14 year of economic mismanagement . we must and we will put an end to the year of sluggish economic growth and squeeze living standard — issue that have typify the past two decade . we must turn this country around and build an economy that work for everyone . I welcome my hon . friend to his new position , which be hugely well deserve . this motion give the impression that the conservative care about homeowner and renter , but do he agree that it be Labour who be give homeowner great power and protection through leasehold reform , give renter stability so that they can stay in their home for long , and build 1 . 5 million more home to tackle the terrible housing legacy of the previous Government ? they do too little and we be sort it out . I thank my hon . friend for that very kind intervention . I agree with every word that he say . the subject of today ' s debate be , of course , taxis and which taxis may or may not change in the future . let I be clear : I will not be write the Budget today or any day in this role . that be a job for the Chancellor . just as she deliver a Budget that fix the foundation for the country last year , I be confident that the Budget this year will showcase the right choice for the country for the long - term health of public and family finance . property taxis make a significant contribution to the public finance , raise more than £ 75 billion a year . that be crucial for fund our school , our NHS , our emergency service and our armed force and for fill in pothole too . they help to provide a broad tax base , which underpin good fiscal policy . I know that that be not something to which the previous Government give much thought . they be happy , it seem , to run our economy and public finance into the ground , leave we with a £ 22 billion black hole , which we of course have to fill . we believe in a tax system that be fair and sustainable and that support economic growth . at the autumn Budget in 2024 , my right hon . friend the Chancellor take a number of decision to raise taxis on the wealthy to help fix our public finance and support public service such as the NHS and education . these tax change include : abolish the non - domicile tax status ; raise the rate of capital gain tax ; limit inheritance tax relief ; and increase air passenger duty for private jet . thank to the work of my predecessor and the great work of HMRC official , whom I be look forward to work with , we be also increase work to make sure that the wealthy pay their fair share of the tax that they owe . these change and other that we have make demonstrate the fundamental truth of politic in 2025 . I congratulate the hon . gentleman on his appointment . in the labour manifesto on which he will remember he stand along with his colleague , it be suggest that there would be tax rise under a Labour Government . I think the figure be £ 7 billion . in the event , £ 40 billion - worth of rise come forward in the autumn . will he commit the Government to be more transparent in future in prepare the market for tax rise , and , indeed , the people who have to pay they ? I thank the right hon . member for his intervention . I would ask he if I could whether he could identify £ 40 billion of spending cut , if he want to have £ 40 billion of tax cut . I do not want to see NHS waiting list grow in my constituency , in his constituency , or in any of the constituency that we all have the privilege of represent . the tax change that have be introduce demonstrate the fundamental truth of politic in 2025 . the bedrock of this Labour Government be fiscal responsibility , while the cornerstone of the Conservatives ' economic plan be fiscal fantasy . it be simply incredible that they have oppose every single one of the tax increase that we have put forward . willing the end without have any of the means be come to define the economic policy of the Conservatives . frankly , it should concern we all how unserious they have become . as my hon . friend the Member for Gateshead Central and Whickham ( Mark Ferguson ) say , it be clear that the Conservatives be enjoy the comfort and ease of opposition . long may that continue . I must say , it be surprising that the Conservatives would wish to raise the subject of property , give their abysmal record in that area . there can be no doubt that a big part of the mandate that this Government be give be to build more home . the public have grow weary of year of sluggish growth , and over - budget project that be first stall , and then delay . the public need change ; they need we to build for this country ' s future , and that be what we be set about do . from infrastructure to planning reform , which I have be champion for the last year , and our mission to build 1 . 5 million new home . the Government have put housing at the heart of our approach , which will create job and opportunity for those who build the home , and give family and individual the opportunity to call somewhere home . as I say when I give my maiden speech from a few row back , housing be central to my politic . the aspiration of everyday family up and down this country be to have a home to call their own , maybe with a garden and a spot to park their car , in a community support by public service that work . People do not want the world deliver to they on a plate by Government . they just want a good life for themselves and those they love . build more housing and improve public service be essential ingredient of meet their aspiration . I have make many note on all the fantastic contribution from member on both side of the House , but I can see that Madam Deputy Speaker think that it be almost time for I to conclude , and I be sure that the Opposition Whip think so . [ interruption . ] ah , it turn out that there be more time , so I shall begin with my hon . friend the Member for Milton Keynes Central ( Emily Darlington ) , who make a powerful intervention about the success of Milton Keynes city council , and the importance of this Government invest in public service . the hon . member for Bromley and Biggin Hill ( Peter Fortune ) give a powerful example of house price in his constituency , show how price have surge in this city — I know that , as I represent a north London seat — but that be why we must build more home . I hope that he will support all the planning reform go through this House , and the reform that will come soon , because we need they to bring down house price and improve the living standard of people in this country . the hon . member for Farnham and Bordon ( Gregory Stafford ) make an interesting and thoughtful intervention about support for pensioner , but he should talk to the shadow Chancellor , the right hon . member for Central Devon ( Sir Mel Stride ) , who have say that the triple lock be unsustainable — a view with which the Government do not agree . I would like to give a pleasant mention to my hon . friend the Members for North East Derbyshire ( Louise Sandher - Jones ) , and for Loughborough ( Dr Sandher ) . I congratulate they on their marriage over the summer . it be fantastic to see they both contribute to the debate , and they both bring so much to the Labour Benches . my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Northfield ( Laurence Turner ) have a very good line on Liz Truss . he say that her dream become our constituent ' nightmare , which be very true . we know it , and I think the Conservatives do , too . I will certainly be steal that line for future contribution in this House . to conclude , as the new Exchequer Secretary to the Treasury , I look forward to return to this Chamber and to Committee corridor on many occasion to discuss tax policy . the people of this country work hard for everything that they earn . they deserve an efficient and fair tax system , whether that tax relate to property or other area , and for government to spend every penny of public money wisely . that be why everything we do be underpin by fiscal stability , our stick to our rule , and our manage the public finance well in this uncertain world . we do not turn to more borrowing , as Liz Truss do or the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) would , but put economic stability at the heart of all we do . that be the foundation for what really matter : high growth for high living standard in every part of the country . that be what this Government be work every day to deliver . we be work to lift the crush burden of the cost of live crisis , to back those who want to invest in the future of this country , and to give as many people as possible a home that they can call their own . that be the future that I fight for on the Back Benches , and that be the future that this government can and will deliver . question put . Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Aphra Brandreth Alex Burghart James Cartlidge Christopher Chope James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock John Cooper Alberto Costa Gareth davy Mims davy Charlie Dewhirst Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Luke Evans Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale John Glen Tom Gordon Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Esther McVey Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Kieran Mullan David Mundell Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Chris Philp Shivani Raja Jack Rankin Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Andrew Rosindell Jim Shannon Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Mel Stride Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Gavin Williamson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Jerome Mayhew Gregory Stafford Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Olivia Bailey David Baines Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair carn Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Damien Egan Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Gill german Tracy Gilbert Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Tom Gordon Georgia Gould John Grady Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Ruth Jones Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell Andrew Lewin Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Perran Moon Jessica Morden Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Tristan Osborne Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Lucy Powell Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Jeevun Sandher Louise Jones Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Baggy Shanker Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Kate Dearden Christian Wakeford the House divide : Ayes 98 , Noes 335 . question accordingly negative . hospitality Sector we now come to the second Opposition Day motion . I inform the House that Mr Speaker have not select any amendment . I call the shadow Secretary of State to move the motion . I beg to move , that this House regret the combination of catastrophic choice make by the Government cause the closure , downsize and lack of hire by pub , restaurant , hotel and hospitality business across the United Kingdom , with an estimate 84 , 000 job loss over the last 12 month and an average of two site closure per day in the first half of 2025 ; far regret the Government ' s policy that have lead to this such as the omission of the hospitality sector from the Government ' s industrial strategy , increase in the cost of pavement licence , the reduction in retail , hospitality and leisure business rate relief from 75 per cent to 40 per cent for 2025 - 26 , the increase in employer ' National Insurance contribution to 15 per cent and the lowering of the secondary threshold to £ 5 , 000 , and measure in the Employment Rights Bill which will make hospitality employer liable for the behaviour of customer and other ; and call on the Government to publish a dedicated strategy for the sector , to consult with hospitality employer prior to any future change to the National Living Wage , to amend the Employment Rights Bill to protect seasonal and flexible employment practice vital to the sector ' contribution in provide a ladder into employment for young and often exclude group and to introduce targeted support measure to prevent further business closure , job loss and damage to local community . from the great british pub to the family - run restaurant , from the small seaside bed and breakfast to world - lead hotel , hospitality business be the beat heart of our community , our high street and our economy . yet today , under Labour , they be hurt like never before . we be promise a Government for job , for opportunity and for prosperity . what have we get instead ? a concoction of catastrophic choice cause a lack of hiring and the closure and downsizing of pub , restaurant , hotel and hospitality business across the nation ; a job tax that go out of its way to savage the part - time , entry - level opportunity that hospitality offer in abundance ; soar business rate ; and over 300 page of additional job - kill red tape . my hon . friend might have be like I : the first job I ever have be as a porter , and then a barman , at the Crown and Mitre hotel in Carlisle . these be opportunity for people who be come into the labour market for the first time or try to get back into the labour market . the hospitality sector offer opportunity to people who otherwise have none , and that opportunity have come under devastating attack from this Government . my right hon . friend be exactly right . opportunity be a word we be go to hear again and again , because of the huge contribution that the hospitality sector make to the economy and to get people on the ladder of opportunity with their first job in life . rise — the hon . Gentleman be try to get his first opportunity , and I will give he that . we be go to have a good debate , and I will make some progress after this . do the hon . Gentleman acknowledge that , under the Tories , a pub close every 14 hour ? that be 10 , 000 in total , so whether it be 14 hour or 14 year , the Tory party can not be trust with the economy . all I can suggest , and I say this in all seriousness , be that the hon . Gentleman should spend a lot more time in local pub in his constituency , because the people there will talk about the horror show that be the Employment Rights Bill . they will talk to he about the soar business rate , the reduction in relief under this Government and the national insurance job tax — that swinge £ 25 billion attack on the private economy . if we be go to exchange number , do my hon . friend agree that it be shock that over 1 , 000 pub and restaurant have close since the autumn Budget , and that 84 , 000 hospitality worker have lose their job ? that be one in every 25 since the autumn Budget alone — and that be when the autumn Budget be actually in the autumn . do he agree that that be have an impact on our high street and the very viability of our local town centre and that it need to stop ? the Government need to stop hold our hospitality sector responsible for everything that happen in the local economy . order . we must keep intervention short . we have close to 50 people try to contribute today . my right hon . friend make an important point . it be about the number , and it be important that we should be instrument . this be a sector that be extremely well instrument , and group such as ukhospitality do a great job at call out the impact . but it be not just about the number , because behind every one of those number be a story : a family , a striver , a risk taker , an entrepreneur , a community or a high street whose life be be suck out of it by this Government . hospitality be where the character of our nation live , in the welcome of a restaurant host , the laughter in a dining room and the clink of a glass , and it be the fact that that life that be be extinguish that be so tragic . one thing that be not pick up in the figure be the fact that caf é s and business up and down Hinckley and Bosworth be have to reduce the man - hour that people be work to reduce their staffing cost because of the taxis that be be put in place . this be a real problem . do my hon . friend agree that we be not get the growth that we want in this country because people be have to deal with this toxic concoction of legislation and tax ? I do agree . my hon . friend put it extremely well . it have be an enormously difficult summer . the weather should have be a tailwind , but the tailwind be not significant enough to offset the headwind of the impact of that job tax . and who do it hit ? Labour Members say that they stand up for opportunity for young people and the most vulnerable , but the change to national insurance threshold in particular — the reduction from £ 9 , 100 to £ 5 , 000 — have hit the part - time worker , the young mum try to balance the responsibility of family life and the young people try to get their very first step on the ladder . in her first Budget , the Chancellor say that she have make her choice . well , we warn she , business warn she and even the Office for Budget Responsibility warn she , and what have happen ? as my hon . friend the Member for Gosport ( Dame Caroline Dinenage ) say , 84 , 000 job have be lose in hospitality since the Chancellor take office . that be a Wembley stadium ' s - worth of livelihood shred by this Labour Government , affect the most vulnerable in society , those try to juggle other commitment and young people try to have their first shot in the world of work . if this government be about protect work people , I have to say they have a very odd way of show it . it be not just we say this . last month , Kate Nicholls , the chair of ukhospitality , say : " More than half of all job loss since October occur in hospitality be further evidence that our sector have be by far the hard hit by the Government ' s regressive tax increase . " on that point , do my right hon . friend agree with my constituent , Stephen Montgomery , who be the director of the Scottish Hospitality Group , that the very circumstance he be set out have bring the industry to the brink , and that unless the Government start listen , it be go to go over a cliff edge ? as it happen , I be in Edinburgh yesterday , talk to representative of the hospitality sector and the hard - press tourist sector , and they make exactly the same point to I . this be unnecessary . it do not need to be this way . and to what end ? an increase in the job tax to fund tax cut for Mauritians and cookery class for illegal migrant , or to let the bloated public sector work from home another day a week ? if proof be need of where hospitality rank in the priority of this Government , we need look no far than the page of their own industrial strategy , because in 160 page of closely type text and hundred of thousand of word , the word " hospitality " feature just three time , one of which be a typo where they misspell the word " hospital " . let ' s be frank , their attitude to hospitality be lamentable , and the bad news just keep come . no Government that understand business would ever come forward with the Employment Rights Bill . Tony Blair do not . Gordon Brown do not . it be 330 page that prove this Government be not serious about growth . they have zero appreciation for the seasonal and flexible work that suit the worker and the hospitality and tourism business alike . they be conscript pub landlord into an attack on freedom of speech with a banter ban on overheard remark — not harassment , but remark that somebody could construe , misdirect at they , as offensive . any small business owner will say that the two word they fear the most in the english language be " employment tribunal " , yet the Government want to legislate to grow even far the half a million case that be already in the employment tribunal backlog . there be no point concoct and cook up additional workplace right if people can not find a job in the first place . that be why the top five business group in the UK — almost exceptionally — write an open letter say that the impact on growth will be deeply damaging and lead to job loss and recruitment freeze . that be here right now ; that be what be happen on our high street and in our community across this country thank to this Government damage the hospitality sector . I agree with the hon . member on the point about employer national insurance contribution , but in the Press and Journal today — one of the august daily paper in Scotland — there be report that highland hotelier be struggle to recruit . the large part of the blame for that be lay at the door of Brexit , and the current immigration policy do nothing to help the highland and island in Scotland . there be demand for a rural visa , which be fully back by the Federation of Small Businesses — Order . I remind member that there be 45 of you wish to speak . intervention must be a lot short . I be sure the shadow Minister have get the hon . Gentleman ' s point . the ability of people to find work in this wonderful sector , which provide those wonderful opportunity be , yes , a function of access to the labour market , but it be also a function of an employer ' s ability to take that risk on somebody — to take a chance and give they that opportunity . I think we would all agree — occasionally we hear positive noise from those on the Government Front Bench before they be reign into line by their own Back Benchers — that it would be far well for our nation and our out - of - control public finance if the 9 million people of working age could seize the opportunity present by sector like hospitality , which offer flexible working and the chance to start a career , and could join the workforce , regardless of which constituency they come from . almost uniquely , hospitality be a sector whose contribution to our constituency be something of which each and every one of we — all 45 of we who wish to speak today — be proud . that contribution be why Conservative member value the sector so strongly . the shadow Minister talk about the 45 people want to speak . my first job be in hospitality . I want my young constituent in Lagan Valley to have the same opportunity , but do he agree that with these tax increase and not give vat cut , it be so difficult for our hospitality business ? I absolutely agree that we have to do everything we can to help . this be about tax and employment , because one of the characteristic that hospitality , tourism and retail share be the significant amount of employment they offer , but it be also about other taxis . it be about the tax system ; that be why I refer in the motion and in my opening remark to a concoction . take business rate , for example . from a business perspective , they be a terrible tax ; they be pay before a business have make a single pound , and they get few and few service from local government in return . when we be in government , we shield the sector with generous relief and exemption , yet one of the first act of this Government be to more than double business rate for many in retail and hospitality . I agree with Emma McClarkin , the ceo of the British Beer and Pub Association , who say that " punish rate and regulation " be at the heart of why so many pub be close . this government do not get business — and no wonder : there be more alumnus of the Resolution Foundation in government now than there be Ministers who have ever run a business . I think many of they have their first opportunity in hospitality , but very few of they , sadly , stay there . business be not about number on some page in a policy wonk ' s pamphlet . we be talk about real people who take a risk , put their capital to work , give their time and energy , and , as a result , grow our community and the economy — people like those run the award - win Tottington Manor in my constituency , Chalk restaurant in Wiston , the warm and welcome Three Moles in Selham and the innovative Kinsbrook vineyard in West Chiltington . it be not just hospitality business be ravage by these state - impose headwind ; thousand of business say they be be impact and be at risk because of these measure . we be witness collapse on many of our high street , and in the Minister ' s own constituency of Rhondda and Ogmore , Porth have lose its last clothe shop because of rise cost impose by his Government . last weekend , I attend the reopening of a wonderful pub in my constituency : the Star in Llansoy . it be one of the 10 , 000 pub that shut on the Conservatives ' watch , and it have now be reopen by the community . do the shadow Minister agree that our policy be give business confidence to reopen ? my background be in business , and I celebrate anybody who succeed and take a risk in business , include the hospitality venue in the hon . Lady ' s constituency . one of the innovation that the previous Government pursue be the community ownership fund , which I know from personal experience save or help many hospitality venue . sadly , it have lose its way under this Government . I will conclude my remark to allow as many colleague as possible to speak . let we be crystal clear about this . [ interruption . ] there be nothing funny about this debate and what be happen in hospitality right now — people be lose their job . we can not tax , regulate or spend our way to growth . every pint pull , every plate serve and every bed make grow our economy : a job provide , a supplier support , life breathe into a community . no Government be perfect , which be why it be often good for the state to stay out of the way . yet under Labour , this vital , value sector be be punish , not reward . this government do not protect worker by destroy the business that employ they . they can not claim to lead our country while drain the very life from so many community . british hospitality business deserve well . the Conservatives will always stand with those who dare to dream , invest , build and hire . we stand for every business , big and small , that be fight to keep its light on . we stand for every young person desperate for their first shot at work . above all , we stand for the growth that this country so desperately need . if I might , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will start with an apology . as I tell the shadow Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport , the hon . member for Droitwich and Evesham ( Nigel Huddleston ) , last night , I be not able to be here for the end of this debate — I do apologise . oh no ! well , I be glad that people like I be here — that be very kind . I be not go to be kind for the rest of my speech , so the shadow Business Secretary , the hon . member for Arundel and South Downs ( Andrew Griffith ) , should not get use to that . what an absolute joy it be to see the shadow Business Secretary up close . he must think that amnesia have hit the whole country . I mean , he be the business adviser to Boris Johnson — and we know what expletive Boris Johnson use when refer to business , don ' t we ? do the shadow Business Secretary resign as a Minister when all the other be resign , though ? oh no , he lash himself to the Boris Johnson mast until the very end . in February of last year , still he be call for the return of Johnson . but that be not all , be it ? when it come to the lettuce - defy catastrophe know as the Liz Truss premiership , the shadow Business Secretary be not just a casual supporter ; he be the Financial Secretary to the Treasury . he actually help to put together that disastrous Budget . he be not just in the room when it happen , to quote " Hamilton " ; he hold the pen ! he be Kwasi ' s amanuensis ; he be Truss ' s handmaiden . this be a man who could not see the writing on the wall even if it be spit out fire 50 metre high . even when the Bank of England have be force to act to shore up the economy follow the mini - Budget , he go out to defend it . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I wonder whether you have any advice for those in the hospitality industry listen to the Minister , who be so afraid to deal with the issue at hand that he have to resort to this ad hominem attack on our Front - Bench colleague . may I thank the right hon . gentleman for his point of order , and perhaps encourage all member to ensure that they stay on topic and in scope this afternoon ? they don ' t like it up ' em , do they , Madam Deputy Speaker ? the shadow Business Secretary then say , " we think they ' re the right plan because those plan make our economy competitive . " the problem with the argument that he have make today be that he have not learn a single thing since that mini - Budget . he still want we to tax less and spend more at the same time . yes , of course he want to reverse the national insurance increase , but do he point to where the money should come from ? no , of course he doesn ' t . he like the additional spending on the NHS , he approve of our spending on prison , he support more spending on policing , and he clamour for more spending on defence — and , no doubt , on train , telecom , university and school — but he do not want to pay for it , which be why it be as plain as a pikestaff that he have not change a bit . he would re - run the Truss mini - Budget in the twinkling of an eye . it be doolally economic when Truss introduce it and it be doolally economic today . I give you , Madam Deputy Speaker , the Minister for doolally economic . let I deal with two specific point that he make . will the Minister give way ? I will make a couple of point ; then of course I will give way to the Father of the House . the shadow Business Secretary condemn what he call the reduction in retail hospitality and leisure business rate relief from 75 % to 40 % for 2025 - 26 . do the House note the sleight of hand there ? when the Conservatives leave office , they have no plan to extend the business rate relief beyond the financial year , and hospitality be face a complete cliff edge , go from 75 % relief to zero relief — so I be proud that our Chancellor introduce the 40 % relief . I be also proud that the Government be create a fairer business rate system that will protect the high street , support investment and be fit for the 21st century . the Conservatives have 14 year to do that . do they bring in any amendment that would have improve the situation for hospitality ? Nary a one . we recognise the vital role that hospitality business play in drive economic growth and strengthen economic cohesion across the country . that be why from 2026 - 27 , this Government intend to introduce permanently low tax rate for retail , hospitality and leisure property with rateable value of less than £ 500 , 000 . that be a permanent tax cut to ensure that hospitality benefit from much - need certainty and support . this be all good , amusing , knockabout stuff — nothing wrong with that — but will the Minister say a few word of comfort to the small family business that be close all over the country and about whether , as the Minister with responsibility for hospitality , he be make representation to the Chancellor to relieve some of those small business from such taxis in the Budget ? I will be very straightforward with the right hon . gentleman : of course we recognise the problem that small business be have — I have hear from many — and I be about to come to the issue of national insurance contribution , which I accept , of course , have provide difficulty to many different business . however , it be all very well everyone campaign against the tax , but if they be not prepared to say where the billion be to come from otherwise , then they will the end but they do not will the mean . last week , see the opening of West Bromwich ' s brand - new indoor market and the return of the much - love Firkins bakery . People be queue from 7 am for the famous lemon ice bun that Firkins have sell for many year . do the Minister agree that food and hospitality be at the heart of our high street , would he like to come to taste one of those ice bun , and do he agree that that be what we can achieve when Labour government work with labour council and community ? I be more of a Chelsea bun person than an iced bun person , but my hon . friend make a good point : there be business up and down the country open anew and afresh . far from such business dismiss the opportunity of have a national health service that work more effectively , a rail service that work effectively and a secure set of working right for people ; they welcome that provision , and they want people to have a proper wage when in work because they know that motivate their staff well . talk of business open , in my constituency of Harlow we have just welcome a new branch of ikea . it be the first business in my constituency that have speak to I about the Employment Rights Bill ; it be really excited about it and want we to hurry up and get on with it — [ interruption . ] it be no wonder that ikea employee across the country be very happy in their job , be loyal to their job and like work for that company . I agree . I note that an awful lot of conservative mp be say , " oh , they ' re Swedish " , as if foreign investment in the UK be a bad idea . [ interruption . ] yes , that be what they be do — they can furrow their brow as much as they want . the shadow Secretary of State point to the increase in employer national insurance contribution . yes , of course the Government have take a number of difficult but necessary decision on tax , welfare and spending to fix the public finance , to fund public service and to restore economic stability after the situation that we inherit from the previous Administration , but I have to point out to the hon . Gentleman — because he do not seem to understand the fact — that the hospitality sector be make up predominantly of small business , and we take decisive step to protect the small business from the impact of the increase in employer national insurance by increase the employment allowance from £ 5 , 000 to £ 10 , 500 . that mean that 865 , 000 employer will pay no employer national insurance contribution at all this year and that more than half of all employer will either gain or see no change . employer will be able to employ up to four full - time worker on the national living wage without pay a penny of employer national insurance contribution . unlike most , if not all , of the Conservative Members list on the Order Paper as supporter of the motion , my wife and I own two successful hospitality business . we welcome the increase in national insurance contribution and the improvement in worker ’ right because they be good for our employee , our business and our customer . do the Minister agree that the Tories only know how to race to the bottom and not how to give worker a leg up ? I passionately support what we have do about the national minimum wage . I remember when we have to sit through the night in this Chamber to ensure that the national minimum wage be introduce in the first place ; incidentally , I remember that the Liberal Democrats vote against that , as well as the Conservatives . we want people who work for a decent number of hour every week to be able to put food on the table , pay a mortgage and give their child the opportunity in life that they may not have be able to achieve . that be why it be important that in this sector , perhaps above all other sector , we ensure that people be properly pay . ukhospitality say : " at a time when the country need job , the Government should be encourage hospitality to grow and create job , not tax they out of existence . " be it right or wrong ? we be not tax they out of existence , as I have try to explain to the hon . gentleman . he be another one of those people who be awfully nice when you meet he in the bar — [ interruption . ] the shadow Secretary of State be say that that sound terrible , but he be say early that every single pint that be pull represent an increase to the economy , so the hon . member for Meriden and Solihull East ( Saqib Bhatti ) help out . the point that I be try to make — not very well — be that it be impossible to simply say , " we be not go to tax , " and still want to see the same level of expenditure . that be what get we into the trouble in the Truss Budget , and for family finance that mean — on that point , will the Minister give way ? I will not give way again . that mean that mortgage rate rise fast than they have ever rise in our history , which make it almost impossible for people to survive economically . the Minister be an entirely charming chap and a great entertainer — I worry that his Equity card might be get out of date . he praise the change that have be make to the employment condition of bar staff , for example , but do he really think that it be a good idea to have they police the comment of people who use public house , when it take as many as five member of the constabulary to arrest a comedian over inappropriate tweet ? the right hon . Gentleman make a perfectly legitimate point . no , of course I do not want that . I want the police officer in my constituency to be police the street , as my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care say this morning , not police tweet or private conversation between individual — [ interruption . ] I have make my point . the police in my constituency , where , incidentally , we lose large number of police officer during the time that the Conservative Government be in office , be hard press enough to deal with the problem they have without try to take on ludicrous and preposterous element as well . my big complaint about the speech make by the hon . member for Arundel and South Downs be that he be so determined to do down the government that he end up drag down the sector as well . the honest truth be that the UK hospitality sector be absolutely amazing . whether it be the Lake district , the night life in Manchester and London , the gastropub in the Cotswolds , the movie location up and down the land , the Royal Oaks , the White Harts , the Red Lions , the Prospect of Whitbys , the Moon under Waters , the Eagle and Childs , Bamburgh castle , Chester zoo , which I love visit last week to feed the giraffe , the British Museum , all the V & As and the Tates , Windsor castle — the pub and the castle — Stratford - upon - Avon — rise — whether it be St Mary Redcliffe , Canterbury cathedral , the O2 or the Stadium of Light , we should celebrate every single part of our hospitality industry across the whole of the UK and be proud that we be british . do the Minister agree that in Stratford - upon - Avon , hospitality be not just an industry , but the lifeblood of our visitor economy ? every pub , caf é or restaurant closure be a blow not only to job , but to our high street and our community ' s sense of place . yes , and I would add another point to that . in Stratford - upon - Avon , as in many other part of the United Kingdom , the hospitality industry , the tourism industry and the creative industry be intrinsically bind together . a number of people will go to the theatre , stay in a hotel , go to the Lazy Duck or one of the other pub — apparently other pub be available in Stratford - upon - Avon — and go to the most visited church in England , which be in Stratford - upon - Avon . it be a multifarious concoction of different industry that fit together , which be why we need to try to foster all of they so that they can all flourish together . the hon . Lady make a very good point . one of the argument I have be try to make be that as much as I love Stratford - upon - Avon — which , incidentally , be very difficult to get to by train ; that be one of the thing I would dearly love for we to sort out — a lot of international tourist come only to London and the south - east and perhaps to Oxford , Cambridge , Stratford and Edinburgh . I want they to see the whole diversity of the hospitality industry and the tourism sector across the whole of the United Kingdom . will the Minister give way ? will the Minister give way ? I be look in the direction of the right hon . Gentleman , so I think I will have to take his intervention first . I will then take an intervention from my hon . friend . I think the Minister may need to add a few more island venue to his travel itinerary in the future . may I take he back to the question of tax ? he be right to say that if we will a reduction in tax , we should look for a reduction in expenditure , but it do not always work like that . when we cut the rate of duty on spirit , we do it with the expectation of a loss of £ 600 million , but it actually bring an increase of £ 800 million . that can sometimes happen . for year , the UK hospitality sector have be ask for a reduce rate of vat on its service , and that would be sector specific . it have give evidence , back by some of the big consultancy in the area , that that would in fact bring an increase tax take . will the Minister make that point to the Treasury ? at nearly every meeting that I have with any sector in my portfolio , the sector say to I , " can we have a cut in vat ? " while people in the hospitality sector have say to I many time that they would like a cut in vat , that be also say by people in the theatre industry and a whole series of other . these be matter for the Chancellor , not for I , as the right hon . Gentleman well know . the right hon . Gentleman be absolutely right about island . we be an island nation , and we should embrace that as part of our tourism and hospitality industry across the whole of the UK . specific challenge arise for coastal area and island , and I hope we will be able to address those when we come to produce our tourism strategy later this year . I will take an intervention from my hon . friend the Member for Stratford and Bow ( Uma Kumaran ) , then I hope to make some progress . we have be talk about Stratford , but I be wait to hear about Stratford and Bow in London , where I be really pleased that the Government be back our bid for the 2029 world athletic championship . my constituency , like so many other , thrive when more tourist and visitor come from across the UK and overseas , but we want to see that spread across every region in the country . the Minister be develop a visitor economy growth strategy . will he set out how it will spread tourism beyond London so that all the other region can thrive as well ? one of the first thing I do when I become the Minister be to set an ambitious target of reach 50 million international visitor to the UK by 2030 ; we be at something like 43 million visitor at the moment . if we be go to get to that target of 50 million visitor , we will have to ensure that we have the mix of accommodation across the whole United Kingdom . that pose some challenge around how we deal with short - term let to ensure that there be more of an even play field and that coastal area and area that be heavily dependent on tourism do not end up be completely denude when the tourist go away at the end of the season . we need to do more to extend the season so that it be not just the summer month . we can do a whole series of thing to ensure that that happen , but this be not just about international visitor . when an international visitor come to the UK , they bring dollar , euro , yen or whatever it may be to the UK . that be a net gain to our economy , but I argue that when a domestic visitor decide , " you know what ? I ' m not go to go to Spain this year , because I know that there be so much here , " they will then stay in the UK , and that be a net gain for we as well . frankly , there be also a climate in the summer in the UK that be rather more agreeable for human being nowadays . we need to explore all those different element . my hon . Friend refer to the east end of London . of course , quite a lot of sporting event happen in the east end of London , and sport be just as much of an intrinsic part of why people come to this country . the number of international visitor who come to the UK solely for a premiership match be very large , but the number of people who go to the theatre last year in the UK be double the number who go to a premiership match , so we need to get the whole of this sector move as much as we possibly can . we need to make sure that there be investment in the right part of the sector , and that that investment take place across the whole of the United Kingdom . will the Minister give way on that point , very quickly ? it will not be quick — I know it will not , least of all my answer — but anyway . Wales have introduce a tourism tax , or be plan to do so . in light of what we be talk about today , can the Minister rule out the UK introduce a tourism tax in the upcoming Budget ? I be not go to do the Chancellor ' s job , but we have no plan to introduce a tourism tax . of course we be look at different place in the country that have go forward in different way — Manchester , for instance , have a system that have be voluntarily agree , and there be the situation in Scotland and in Wales , which the hon . Gentleman refer to . we want to look at how all of that progress , but many people in the sector have make the point to I that they feel taxed enough . I do not know that we would want to add any more to that . as I say , there be a job of work to be do on short - term let , because it seem intrinsically unfair for somebody who be effectively provide hotel - like accommodation to not be subject to any of the same rule , or the same taxation , that a hotel — even a small hotel — would be . that be one of the area in which we want to take forward the work that be do by the previous Government . rise — every time I deal with something , another person stand up , but we have not have anybody from the SNP intervene yet . apart from my hon . friend the Member for Moray West , Nairn and Strathspey ( Graham Leadbitter ) . I thank the Minister for highlight the V & A museum , one of which be in my city of Dundee , which have numerous hospitality business . Scotland make a £ 9 billion contribution to the UK Exchequer through hospitality , and 200 , 000 job depend on it . there be consequence from the national insurance contribution rise ; for example , just this year , one third of venue in Scotland have reduce their staff number and almost one fifth have shorten their opening hour , which mean few job , less income tax and less tax from profit . order . the intervention be very long . the Minister have now take long than the shadow Minister do in open the debate . I be sure he will bring his remark to a conclusion very soon . I have just bin that bit of the speech , Madam Deputy Speaker . when the Government take office , the sector be already under strain . the aftermath of the pandemic and the cost of living crisis leave hospitality and tourism business face real difficulty . in particular , domestic tourism have struggle to get back to pre - pandemic number , which be still the case in many part of the country . we inherit a very distressed sector , but we have act quickly and decisively to stabilise it , support job and lay the foundation for growth . we continue our work to get people into job , in collaboration with the Department for Work and Pensions . the sector - base work academy programme have see nearly 10 , 000 start in hospitality over less than two year , and we have extend the destination hospitality swap to 26 area across England , which aim to specifically help jobseeker gain the skill and experience need to enter employment in hospitality and tourism . the one area in which I agree with the shadow Minister be that this be a unique sector in one sense : that a person can go from have no skill , no qualification and no experience to be a skilled worker in the sector within six to nine month . that be absolutely transformational for many people , and I want to make sure that more young people in this country do not think of it just as a job , but as a career . representative of the sector have repeatedly tell I that there be a skill shortage , particularly of people who be five or 10 year into the sector . we want more people to stay , because nearly every chief executive you meet in the sector be somebody who start on the shop floor — pull pint , work as a barista , change bed or something like that . for we as a Labour Government , this sector be essential to social mobility . in July , the Government set out our plan for small business , which be the most comprehensive package of support for small and medium - sized business in a generation and will be transformational for the sector . we be slash red tape to overhaul planning and licensing rule , make it quick and easy for new caf é s , bar and music venue to open in place of disused shop , and we be increase access to finance for entrepreneur through a massive £ 4 billion finance boost . we be end the scourge of late payment , which cost the UK economy £ 11 billion annually and close 38 business daily . that be another issue that be repeatedly raise with I . we be not complacent at all about the sector . we want to get 50 million international visitor to the UK by 2030 . as be mention early , we be prepare to publish a visitor economy growth strategy later this year . it will set out how the UK can capitalise on global opportunity , increase investment and strengthen the long - term resilience of the sector . the hospitality and tourism sector be the beat heart of our town , city and rural economy , as the hon . member for Arundel and South Downs ( Andrew Griffith ) say . they be vital to our high street . they provide job and skill for young people , entry route into work for those who might otherwise be exclude from work , and vital social space that bind our community together . this government will continue to back they with action , not rhetoric . finally , I encourage every single Member of the House to find a business in the sector — not in their constituency , but in somebody else ' s — that they can boost this weekend . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the economic landscape be extremely difficult for many business and industry , and hospitality be one of the sector face the most acute challenge . pub , restaurant , caf é s and hotel be deal with huge pressure — unfair taxis , soar energy bill , skill shortage , and a broken business rate system . the Labour Government have have more than a year to address these issue , but instead of throw business a lifeline , their policy have only make it hard for business to keep their head above water . change to employer ' national insurance , the reduction in business rate relief and the absence of any meaningful action to bring down commercial energy price be all factor contribute to job loss , business closure and stagnant economic growth . although this government ' s decision have make thing bad , business sentiment certainly be not rosy during the last Parliament . year of dire economic mismanagement by the previous Government force business owner to make cut , hike price and work long hour . even though we Liberal Democrats be supportive of today ' s motion , we feel obliged to point out that the Conservative Government ' s chaotic approach cause so many of these problem , include soar energy cost , a staffing crisis , and the vast increase in regulation and red tape bring about by their dismal Brexit negotiation . accord to ukhospitality , the measure in last year ' s autumn Budget deliver a hit to the sector worth a cumulative extra £ 3 . 4 billion annually . meanwhile , datum from the Office for National Statistics show that the hospitality sector have shed nearly 70 , 000 job since last October . that work out as an astounding 3 . 2 % of all job in the sector , and it be 266 % high than the number of job lose in the overall economy . those figure lie bare the slow dismantling of the hospitality sector as a direct result of this Government ' s policy . a recent survey conduct by ukhospitality find that since the autumn Budget , a third of hospitality business be now operate at a loss , with 60 % cut job , 75 % have increase price , and two third reduce staff hour . these cut be a last - ditch attempt by business just to stay afloat as they cry out for support . small business be the beat heart of our economy . this morning I receive a letter from Kelly Mariner , the manager of an independent coffee shop in my constituency of Horsham . she say : " since the last Budget I have be unable to hire new staff and can not grow my business . I be spend every day do the job I love in front of the customer , but it mean I can ' t develop or follow up new idea . paperwork be a juggling act and I spend very little time with my family . " she ask to meet I . do my hon . friend agree that meet those in the hospitality industry be exactly what the Chancellor need to do before dig her budgetary hole any deeply ? my hon . Friend give a striking example of exactly what I be say about the pressure face by the hospitality sector . he be absolutely right that the Chancellor need to hear these call from the hospitality sector as she put together her Budget , which we now expect at the end of November . small business be the beat heart of our economy . they be at the centre of our local community , and they create the job we all rely on . we be glad that raise the employment allowance will shield the very small employer , but thousand of local business , include many in the hospitality sector , will still feel the damaging impact of the national insurance increase . my liberal Democrat colleague and I have vote against the Government ' s misguided job tax at every opportunity , and I once again urge they to scrap these measure , but I also press the Minister to at least spare our treasured pub , restaurant , caf é and hotel by exempt the hospitality sector from this tax rise . whether they be aware of it or not , the Government ' s decision to raise the rate of national insurance contribution while reduce the salary threshold at which it be levy have significantly increase the cost of employ part - time worker , deliver a disproportionately large blow to the hospitality sector . the Minister have talk about social mobility . do my hon . friend agree that when a company cut hour , it be those who work part time — some of the most disadvantaged member of society — who lose out , and lose their job ? my hon . friend be exactly right . that be why this job tax have be so damaging , not just to the hospitality sector but to the many people who rely on the sector for flexible work that can fit in with their caring demand or other issue that they be experience . the hon . Lady be trot out a whole load of helpful suggestion , of which the hospitality Minister be no doubt take careful note for the time when he make his representation — which he say he would not be make — to the Chancellor . do the hon . Lady agree that he could also make recommendation to the Deputy Prime Minister , especially in relation to the Unemployment Bill , that would have no particular cost attach ? I be think of the " banter ban " , which even the Equality and Human Rights Commission have say be absolutely bonker , and be likely to make hospitality venue even less attractive to those who need to use they . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his intervention , but I entirely disagree with he about the banter ban . the Liberal Democrats agree with the concern express in the motion about the challenge face the hospitality sector , but we do not agree with the part of the motion that express regret about measure in the Employment Rights Bill on workplace harassment , which we do not believe have be accurately represent . as be clear from what have be say by my hon . friend the Member for Torbay ( Steve Darling ) and the significant work do on this issue by my hon . friend the Member for Bath ( Wera Hobhouse ) , we welcome the introduction of reasonable and workable measure to protect employee from harassment in their place of work . the Government must take step to boost the hospitality workforce , and that include show much more urgency in introduce a youth mobility scheme . it take nearly a year for they to listen to call from the Liberal Democrats and other for the negotiation of a youth mobility system , and I hope that Ministers will not continue to drag their foot on an agreement that will truly benefit the hospitality sector . change implement in April 2024 that increase the minimum salary threshold for skilled worker visa shrink the talent pool from which business can recruit , contribute to great staff shortage , and in a 2024 survey of nearly 1 , 700 employer from a range of sector , include hospitality , almost 40 % of employer with hard - to - fill vacancy say that a reduction in the availability of overseas talent be one of the main cause of staffing issue . at a time when so many business be consider whether they can remain viable , we must give hospitality business the tool they need to grow and help boost the wide economy , and access to global talent be part of that . I therefore ask the Minister once again whether the Government will finally set out a timeline for the introduction of a youth mobility scheme . we also need serious action from the Government on boost the domestic workforce by supercharge apprenticeship and invest in skill and retrain opportunity . can the Minister assure the House that Skills England will function as a properly independent body , with employee right at its heart ? business across the country continue to struggle with sky - high energy cost , and I recognise that the recent industrial strategy provide some welcome measure on that front , particularly for the manufacturing sector , but as the motion point out , there be very little in the strategy to help support hospitality firm with their soar energy bill . liberal Democrats have long campaign for energy market reform , which would include reduce our reliance on expensive fossil fuel import by invest in home - grow renewable energy . in recent month we have set out a plan to cut energy bill by half within 10 year by break the link between gas price and electricity cost , so that household and business can see the benefit of cheap , clean power in low energy bill . may I intervene , please ? yes . it be difficult to get a word in . [ Laughter . ] I be married ; I know about these thing . I have 100 staff member in the hospitality industry in the highland , and I can say that all be not well in hospitality by any mean . those who be not on main gas be pay for electricity , by and large , and we be pay four time as much for energy as people in the city . moreover , we in Scotland do not receive the same business rate relief as the rest of the UK . [ interruption . ] I thank my Scottish National party friend , who be sit next to I . our staffing cost , include employer ' national insurance contribution , have increase by 12 . 4 % . so we have real problem , and I must say to the Minister that all be not well . well , I think I thank my hon . friend for his intervention . he be , of course , absolutely right about the cost of energy and the difficulty that it present for business up and down the country . his point about Scotland in particular be well make . will the Minister consider the proposal put forward in our plan , which could help to truly ease the burden not just on the hospitality sector , but people across the country ? finally , I turn to business rate . today ' s motion rightly reflect many of the economic mistake make by this Government . however , it be important to highlight that it be the last Conservative Government who break their manifesto promise to reform business rate , leave small business trap in an outdated and unfair system . of course , the current Government have also pledge to replace the system , with no action take thus far . the Liberal Democrats will continue to hold Ministers accountable for their pledge , because there be a need for a fundamental overhaul of the unfair business rate system . it penalise manufacturer when they invest to become more productive and energy efficient ; it leave pub and restaurant with disproportionally high tax bill ; and it put our high - street business at an unfair disadvantage , compare with online retail giant . in too many place , pub , restaurant and shop be be force to close , take with they job , opportunity and treasured community space . more broadly , the outdated tax system inhibit business investment , job creation and economic growth , hold back our national economy . these problem have persist for too long , and it be high time the Government take action . our proposal for fair reform would cut tax bill , breathe new life into local economy and spur growth . equally importantly , they would provide long - term certainty for business , which in today ' s commercial environment be need more than ever . the value of our hospitality sector go beyond economic . pub , restaurant and caf é s be the beat heart of our town ; they brighten our high street and bring our community together . the economic landscape create by the last Government do so much to damage they , and this Government continue to push many to the brink of collapse . I hope today that Ministers will listen to the Liberal Democrats ’ call and reverse the job tax , bring forward plan for business rate reform , and seriously consider our plan to cut energy bill for people and hospitality firm across the country . there be now a five - minute time limit . over recess , I have the pleasure of visit more than 20 fantastic small business in my constituency during my small business summer roadshow . my aim be to promote these business and hear what I can do to help they thrive . I visit a large number of hospitality business , include Nino ' s in Pangbourne , the Avenue Deli in Calcot , Bradley ' s Caf é and the Street Food Shack in Theale , Mortimer Caf é , Dee Caf on the Dee estate , Blackbird Caf é in Chapel Row , the Pantry in Yattendon , the Swan pub in East Ilsley and the Mad Duck in Purley . these wonderful business do not just serve amazing food and drink ; they be at the heart of our community , provide place for people to be together — place where member of our community can look out for each other . I thank every single one of they for everything that they do . from all the conversation I have have , I know how hard it can be to run a business . owner face many cost , and can struggle to afford advertising or access finance , and there be high business rate and endless red tape . I be glad that the Government ' s recently publish small business strategy start to address this . we be transform business rate , introduce permanently low multiplier for hospitality , cut red tape and admin cost , expand access to start - up loan and other finance , simplify licensing , and establish hospitality and night - time economy zone . for the many pub and independent brewery in my constituency , we have also cut duty on draught product and be consult on improve access for guest beer . I thank the conservative party for provide the opportunity for this debate , but I gently say to hon . member that they have conveniently ignore the contribution that their 14 year in government make to the challenge they outline . yes , this Government have have to make some tough choice in order to fix our public service , but it be the conservative party that leave our public service on their knee . it leave a huge hole in the public finance and oversaw skyrocket inflation , mortgage rate chaos and high energy bill for everybody , include our business . it be on the Conservatives ' watch that family stop be able to afford a meal out , because the Conservatives cause an unprecedented fall in living standard . it be on their watch that business have zero stability and certainty to plan for the future , because they go through Prime Ministers so fast that it feel like each one be a daily special . we have hear a lot from opposition party about the taxis they be not happy to see go up , but we have hear very little about the spending or investment that they would cut as a result of taxis go down . do my hon . friend not agree with I that this be a case of opposition party have their Banbury cake and eat it ? I entirely agree with my hon . friend , and I thank he for his intervention . this government be clean up the mess that the conservative party make , fix the foundation of our economy by restore stability and preside over rate cut after rate cut . we be support people with the cost of live through measure such as expand free childcare , tackle the antisocial behaviour and shoplift that plague our high street , and transform the apprenticeship and skill system to train up young people and get they into secure job . for Conservative Members to pretend that they preside over some sort of golden age of hospitality be simply farcical . over 6 , 000 pub and bar close on their watch , with many high street become nothing more than row of shutter shop . yes , we have make some difficult decision to get our public service back on track , and I firmly believe that that be the right thing to do for our country , and to step out of the black hole the Tories leave we in . however , we be also focus on positive measure to support our local hospitality business , rather than wax lyrical when it be simply too late . for the business I meet over the summer , action speak louder than word , and that be the difference between this Labour Government and the opposition . the hospitality industry be often the unsung hero of our local community . we often do not appreciate it enough and we take it for grant . it be everywhere : it be in every village and every town , and in every corner of our constituency . this opportunity to debate the importance of the hospitality industry be extremely timely give the challenge it be face . as my hon . friend the Member for Arundel and South Downs ( Andrew Griffith ) say , the hospitality industry offer many people the first opportunity to get into a first job . it offer opportunity for those who want flexible working , and it offer opportunity for career progression for those who wish to move into management and maybe aspire to own their own hospitality business one day . as the proud representative of Bridlington and the Wolds , hospitality be vital to my constituency . I represent two seaside town — Bridlington and Hornsea — and a huge rural inland area , all of which be reliant on the hospitality industry that be part of the tourism we so enjoy . five million visitor come to Bridlington alone every year , all of whom enjoy hospitality of some sort in the pub and the caf é s , with the fish and chip and the ice cream . all of these business be under serious pressure . we have hear about the 84 , 000 job loss across the sector nationally , and the pressure feel by individual business from the rise in national insurance contribution , the Employment Rights Bill and other measure take by the Chancellor in her first Budget . one particular area on which I want to concentrate — it be raise by the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) — be the serious issue of vat , particularly on the pub and restaurant sector . I be tell by a local landlord of a very successful pub in my constituency that he have 500 cover a week , and still struggle to make a profit , because although he be buy food without vat , he have to charge it to the customer . that put a serious squeeze on his ability to achieve a profit , even though he be run a successful business . of the 500 people who come in for a meal every week , the Government be take the first 100 cover . vat be quite a hit on such business , and I think the Minister should make more significant representation to the Chancellor on that specific point . I know he say he be approach by every sector about vat , but it seem to be a particularly acute problem for pub and restaurant . my hon . Friend refer to the Minister ' s representation to the Chancellor , but I think the Minister say he be not go to make any representation to the Chancellor . it be not for I to say whether the Minister will or will not , but he should do so , and he should be shout much more loudly on behalf of the hospitality sector . I be always happy to make representation to the Chancellor on lot of different thing , but I have no intention of share they with the House . there we go . let we hope the Chancellor listen this time . another point , which be raise by my hon . friend the Member for Hinckley and Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) , be on the tourism tax in Wales . this have cause significant concern in my coastal community of Bridlington , Hornsea and the other coastal village . as the Minister say , the tourism industry be already heavily tax and people be already feel the pressure . we certainly do not want to see any sort of tourism tax expand from Wales into the wide United Kingdom . it really be not possible for these business to continue in the current climate . as we have hear , over a third be unable to make a profit in the hospitality industry and yet our local pub be the lifeblood of our community . they be so important . we see that during covid , when we be not able to go to the pub and the impact that have on community for people to be able to mix , particularly those who live alone whose social contact be perhaps limit to visit friend for a pint after work in the evening . my hon . friend be rightly articulate that hospitality business be the lifeblood of our community . Epping Forest have fantastic local pub , such as the Theydon Oak , the Forest Gate Inn and the Bull , and fantastic restaurant such as Mila and the India Grill in Loughton . they be all really suffer under the punitive taxation regime from the Labour Government — the job tax and the business rate rise . do he agree that everything they be do be damage our local community ? absolutely . as I say , hospitality be the lifeblood of our local community and we should be do more to look at this as a special case , because it really , really be damaging when we see pub close . when a village lose a pub , it lose part of its heart and soul . we absolutely need to protect these business . they want to make money , but they be not out there try to fleece their customer . they want to make a living ; they do not want to make million out of what they be do . our landlord and landlady be a fantastic part of our community , so we should be do more to support they . the Chancellor , when we eventually get to our Christmas Budget , have a chance to say to our hospitality business across the country that we do value they , that we do accept there be pressure that have be create by the rise in national insurance contribution , that there be pressure through the Employment Rights Bill , that there be pressure they already have through the exist vat rate and that we want to help . now , I know the Chancellor say , " where be you go to cut money , if you take money away from those particular taxis ? " I say , let we be inventive . let we have a look at what we value . this be not about service delivery ; this be about whether , if we reduce taxis , we might , as we have hear , get more take from the overall tax bill . if more people be go into pub , restaurant and cafe and spend more money because it be more affordable to do so , the Treasury might actually end up with more money . I ask the Minister to use this opportunity . please do make representation . he do not have to make they public , but please shout loudly for our hospitality industry . Bournemouth rely heavily on hospitality and tourism . in my constituency alone , hospitality generate £ 162 . 8 million in revenue and employ 3 , 700 people across more than 30 venue . the sector create vibrant community , accessible job and attract investment . take Kris Gumbrell , the ceo of Brewhouse and Kitchen . he chair an industry apprenticeship programme and have invest over £ 3 million to revive a derelict pub in Southbourne , create a community hub and over 40 new job . take Emma Sclanders of Wild & Ginger or Ricky Knowlton of Syds Slaps , who the new the Chief Secretary to the Prime Minister , my right hon . friend for Bristol North West ( Darren Jones ) , be so happy to visit just a few short month ago . take James Fowler of the Larder House , Jon Roberts of Little Perth or Rich Slater of Sobo Beach . the list really do go on . in Bournemouth East , we be bless with fantastic hospitality owner . that be because , as entrepreneur , they be invest time , money and personal risk to create job and community hub . they shoulder cost and be often overlook in policy discussion over the past 14 year . they want , as do we on the Labour Benches , balanced and target support for business to ensure that their effort be be support . hospitality matter so much because it be weave into everyday life . whether it be coffee with friend , football at the stadium , a drink down the pub , date night or quick bite before event , the hospitality sector provide so many of the event that we find so meaningful in our personal life . they be a critical community space and social infrastructure that bring we together , and create belong to each other and to the place we live in . and by God , over the last 14 year have we not see our social infrastructure attack and decimate ? we need to support our hospitality sector , and that be especially important for Government Members who represent coastal community . labour now represent more coastal community than at any time since 1997 , after nearly half the coastal seat in England and Wales be win from the Conservatives in 2024 — that be no wonder when I hear my constituent talk about how Bournemouth have be leave behind and how coastal community have be forget . labour be committed to put that right , which mean support our hospitality and tourism sector . I thank my hon . friend for his passionate argument for the hospitality sector in our coastal community . Plymouth have some of the good pub in England , and I be convinced that beer taste well in pub in Plymouth than in any other place in the UK . I have a question for my hon . friend : do he not think it be important to acknowledge that the previous Conservative Government ' s catastrophic mismanagement of the hospitality sector during covid be still wreak havoc ? I be astonish that nobody raise a point of order there . of course Plymouth do not have the good beer in the country ; Bournemouth East do . if not Bournemouth East , I be sure that many other constituency would claim to , too . however , I agree with my hon . friend that the hospitality sector have endure difficulty time and again , whether during the pandemic , the cost of live crisis or the previous Government ' s reckless disregard for the sector ' s need , and so Labour need to fix the foundation of the hospitality sector . we need to support our economy by stabilise it and , in so do , support our hospitality business . coastal community like Plymouth and Bournemouth have face significant challenge , whether it be bad health outcome , low life expectancy , poor education , low pay or high deprivation . we need to support our coastal community , particularly give that they be so heavily reliant on tourism and industry that have struggle over recent year , such as hospitality . accord to the Office for National Statistics , coastal community have a high proportion of hospitality business than inland area . the hospitality sector in our coastal community can therefore be a powerful economic driver at a time when we be desperate to raise productivity from its sluggish level and grow our economy . the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right to reflect the importance of coastal community in drive the Government ' s growth agenda . my constituency have the coastal community of Bracklesham , a small village where the Beach Caf é , Rewild Sauna and GOAT Coffee be do incredible thing in all come together to bring so much more tourism to what be a beautiful part of my constituency . do the hon . Gentleman recognise that there be a quid pro quo with business that be try to drive growth , but be be hamstring by the Government ' s increase taxis and business rate ? the hon . Lady raise an interesting point on behalf of her constituent and business . I would , of course , say that be it not for the tax rise that allow for investment in our NHS , we would not be see so many hospital appointment and such dramatic fall in NHS waiting list , and we would not then be see people who be once ill return to the workforce , so that they can earn , work and contribute to our economy , and then help our hospitality sector . would the hon . Gentleman admit that what actually happen in the Budget be a transfer of 2 % of gdp from the private sector to the public sector ? that private sector be , to a significant extent , the hospitality sector . I thank the hon . gentleman for his intervention , although I do not recognise what he be say . I hope he be welcome the NHS investment that his constituency be receive , as well as the free breakfast club , place - base nursery , stimulation of his local economy , improve pothole fill and improve connectivity . if he wish to stand up and say that , I would be happy to give way to he again . rise — the hon . member for Inverness , Skye and West Ross - shire ( Mr MacDonald ) do not wish to , so I will give way to my hon . friend the Member for Falkirk ( Euan Stainbank ) . do my hon . friend agree that the constituent of the hon . member for Inverness , Skye and West Ross - shire ( Mr MacDonald ) will have the opportunity to welcome those measure if Scotland vote next year for a Scottish Labour Government ? I think my hon . friend have say enough — and I welcome what he have say . I also want to recognise the difficult financial inheritance of this government : how they need to raise money to fix the foundation , to invest in our public service , and to deliver the change that people be call out for during the general election and long before . all of we on the Government Benches , and I hope on the Opposition Benches too , be hear from our constituent about the green shoot of recovery in our NHS , about school finally start to get the investment that they need , about those place - base nursery and about childcare be roll out on a large scale . what I want to see from our Government be a continuation of their hard work . I welcome the fact that the empty shop rental auction be under way in Bournemouth . I welcome , too , that the Government be move ahead with support the hospitality sector . I would particularly like to see the valuation office properly pay regard to the issue that need fixing and that have be state to I in place like Boscombe . at the last valuation , which be do under the Conservatives , neighbourhood like Boscombe see their rate stay flat or even increase , harm independent retailer . as a Labour Member who want to support hospitality , I would like to see that correct . I would like to see proposal include the raising of the rateable value threshold for 100 % relief from £ 15 , 000 to £ 25 , 000 with tapered relief , the introduction of high street survival discount , and the simplification of the appeal process with open datum and fast - track support for sme . those be just some of the idea that I be hear from constituent . I be sure that other colleague will have many more that they wish to share , so I shall rest there . as we have hear , hospitality be a crucial part of our economy . our pub , restaurant , hotel and other business employ 3 . 5 million people — over 5 , 000 in my North West Norfolk constituency alone , contribute £ 136 million to my local economy — but this Government ' s decision have hammer the sector . as the owner of the Crown and Mitre pub in King ' s Lynn , which I highly recommend , recently put it in the local Lynn News : " how many rise cost can you face before collapse face - first into the till ? " will ' s grim humour say it all . he say that cost be pile up fast than a " bad souffle in an over - heated oven " . but the reality be no laugh matter . when we be in Government , the Conservatives support the sector . we boost growth and help it to recover from the difficult decision that we have to make during covid . that record stand in sharp contrast to what we be see today . all Members will know from talk to hospitality business in their constituency this summer just how worried they be about the increase cost . when I be at the Rose and Crown in Harpley during the summer , talk to the team that reopen that pub and have pub across Norfolk , I hear just how damaging the increase in the national insurance rate have be . the lowering of the threshold to £ 5 , 000 have also be a real challenge . that change alone have bring 750 , 000 worker in the sector into national insurance for the first time — and what have happen ? well , as ukhospitality ' s TaxedOut campaign show , Labour ' s decision have already cost nearly 90 , 000 job in the sector , particularly hit young people , part - time worker and those start out in entry - level position , which they can then grow into the career that the Minister say that he hope more people would have an opportunity to do . the job tax be cost the sector as a whole £ 3 . 4 billion a year . little wonder that a third be now operate at a loss . three quarter have have to put up their price to cope with the increase cost that they be face , and two third be reduce the hour of their exist staff , and be not take on the people that they otherwise would have do . little wonder , too , that ukhospitality have call the Government ' s decision a " hammer blow " for the sector . but it be not just the job tax ; the Government ' s choice to almost halve hospitality and leisure business rate relief from 75 % to 40 % will hit a quarter of a million business . I be very surprised , as I be sure the sector would be , to hear the Minister boast about this damaging decision , give that the average pub be pay £ 5 , 500 more and restaurant be pay £ 9 , 000 extra . how do he expect they to absorb those cost without the consequence for employment that we be see ? depressingly , there be even more to come . the Deputy Prime Minister ' s Employment Rights Bill — or whoever pick it up after she — will add £ 5 billion a year to employer cost , make it less likely that firm will take on people . our hospitality firm be resilient , and they need to be with all they be have to weather . this government be put they under the cosh . with creativity , investment and the high - quality staff across the sector , hospitality firm can attract customer and support our local community . I have see many impressive hospitality business in my constituency , include one that have newly reopen — the Ship in Brancaster , the Chequers in Thornham , the Pub in Clenchwarton , and new enterprise such as Nopa and VinedMe , which be also in Thornham — but the Government be make it far too hard for firm like those to thrive and grow . member have the opportunity today to back our very sensible motion to back the sector , to think again about the doubling of business rate , and to amend the damaging Employment Rights Bill to protect seasonal and flexible work . with borrowing cost at a 27 - year high , hospitality business can not afford for a Government to be make such damaging economic choice . ahead of the Budget , the Chancellor and her team of tax raiser should listen to employer and take action to live within our mean , otherwise more pub , more venue and more job will be lose . I be pleased to have the opportunity to talk about our hospitality sector and how we value and reward the people work in it , the rise confidence that business be report and the evolve nature of our high street . high street and hospitality be change , but sadly what have not change be a conservative party in opposition that want to talk the country down . the reality , as report by 1 , 200 business in the Lloyds business survey , be very different from the picture that the Conservatives want to paint . the survey , which be in its 15th year , last week report that the overall business confidence index , which combine firm ' trading expectation and economic optimism , rise for a fourth consecutive month in August , reach its high level since late 2015 . let I set that out plainly : business confidence under this Labour Chancellor be high than it be at any point under any of the last six Conservative Chancellors who occupy no . 11 Downing Street . my hon . friend be make an excellent point . do he agree that confidence of consumer be also rise , with a number of cut to interest rate , a rise in the minimum wage and many other benefit for work family ? I do agree . I have speak to constituent on two - year fix - rate mortgage who be be hammer two year ago by Liz Truss and be now pay hundred of pound less per month because we be get a grip on the economy . sixty - two per cent of firm plan to increase headcount over the next 12 month , and confidence in retailer survey rise by 13 point to 57 % , also mark a five - month high . this be all welcome news , but I be far from complacent . of course there be real challenge for some hospitality firm . I turn now to how the Government be seek to address they and why it matter to my constituent . a fitting place to start be the people who work in the sector . the average age be 35 . our shop , restaurant , pub , caf é s and cinema be power by young people . when I buy my last suit at the Galleria in Hatfield , I receive much - need sartorial advice from an employee young than I . [ interruption . ] I will go back again for my next suit ! when I pop into a Simmons branch for a coffee , it be invariably a young person who serve I — as it be when I head in for a pint in one of the fantastic pub in our two town or the village . People work in hospitality be just as deserve of right and protection in the workplace as anyone else . that be why it be so important that the Employment Rights Bill bring forward day one protection at work . it introduce protection from unfair dismissal , ban exploitative zero - hour contract and strengthen statutory sick pay . early this year , the Labour Government increase the national living wage by 6 . 7 % to £ 12 . 21 an hour — an increase comfortably above inflation that be welcome by million of worker , though seemingly not by the conservative party . the Conservatives ’ motion seem to cast doubt on the role of the Low Pay Commission , and sadly they have refuse to welcome the pay rise we give to the country last year . if any of they want to say thank we for the minimum wage rise , I will happily give way . on business rate , the Conservatives leave the Treasury with no funded commitment to continue with the retail , hospitality and leisure relief , as the Minister set out powerfully in his opening remark . it be right that this Government step in to make the 40 % reduction in rate permanent , give confidence and security to business owner . I hope we can go even far in future . I know how much civic pride people have in their town centre . although we will not return to the high street of the 1990 , there be real demand in town for variety : shop , place to eat , entertainment and event . a mixture of permanence , such as our iconic John Lewis store in Welwyn Garden City , and the event that the business improvement district put on in our town every year , such as the world food festival , which draw thousand of local people and tourist from across the world . this be a Government who have listen to business , strengthen the right of worker and give million of low earner a pay rise . Sentiment be improve and confidence be rise . let we not talk down our hospitality sector ; let we champion it and seize the opportunity that be in front of we . as the Member for Melksham and Devizes , I represent many rural village and community , a number of which I visit over recess . I have long be strike by the importance of the village pub as a hub of community — a place for good conversation and friendly banter , and for connect with friend and neighbour , which be in fact vital for good mental health . indeed , while on my summer tour of the constituency , I host a drop - in session in the lovely village of Urchfont , outside the Lamb , a friendly community public house . in community such as the one I represent , transport link and broadband connectivity can , on occasion , leave much to be desire , create in their wake a sense of isolation and loneliness , especially for those work at home , raise child or try to enjoy their well - earn retirement . in such instance , a feeling of community , of know one ' s neighbour and of have someone to talk to become so important . in rural village , it be often the pub that make that possible . we have all hear the headline statistic — the closure of 1 , 100 pub and restaurant since the tax on job be introduce in last autumn ' s Budget , leave 84 , 000 people out of work , with two pub shut every day — yet those statistic do not show the whole impact , with landlord and bar staff often put in superhuman effort to try to keep their business afloat . I recently meet my constituent Hannah , who run the Swan at Enford . she come to talk to I about the increase pressure that her business have face since the Budget . in addition to diversify her business , include by run a butcher ' s shop , the Swan play a vital and diverse role in the community , run a monthly " hub in the pub " event and help with the yearly village f ê te and firework night . however , the cost on the business have rise exponentially since the Budget . the cut to hospitality relief have more than double the business rate she must now pay , from £ 167 to £ 444 a month . that , combine with the increase in employer national insurance contribution , mean that landlord like Hannah be under great financial pressure than ever . give that taxis make up 40 % of turnover and that £ 1 in every £ 3 go to his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs , with just 12p make on each pint sell accord to the british Beer and Pub Association , surely it be time for the Government to review the burden that they be place on these vital hospitality business . if the pressure continue , we will likely see more and more village be strip of their pub and community space ; great number of people will prefer to drink at home . if the government do not act , we risk lose the time - honour tradition of the farmer drinking shoulder to shoulder with the accountant , the builder with the postie and the vicar with the carer — in short , the bedrock of village life . in addition to lower the tax burden on those business , the Government should also look at the support they can offer to community pub scheme , through which villager can come together to buy and run their local pub . we have already have one such success in my constituency . the Hop Pole in Limpley Stoke offer a shine example of such scheme , and I hope to see this success replicate by the friend of the Ivy in Heddington , who I be proud to support in their effort to get their local reopen . the hon . Gentleman be make an excellent point about the importance of pub as the heart of our local community life , and that be the case for town as well as for village . do he agree that the measure announce by the Deputy Prime Minister yesterday to support community asset will help exactly the type of pub he be describe , and would he perhaps like to offer a word of support and congratulate she on her work on this ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his comment , but more be need . the Minister ' s Department must support these scheme and the pub trade or risk lose a vital component of rural life . lastly , let I make the point that profitable business pay taxis , but closed pub pay no taxis . it be interesting that the Conservatives ’ motion acknowledge the important role that hospitality business play in offer a first step on the employment ladder to " young and often exclude group " . if they care so much about young and often exclude people , I would have think they would have back Labour ' s Employment Rights Bill , because right now in Ealing Southall , young worker and the many worker of indian heritage in my constituency can be sack for no reason whatsoever in their first two year in a job . these be often hard - work , qualified people but they be completely at the mercy of bad employer because the right not to be unfairly dismiss applie only after two year in a job . there be some great hospitality business in Ealing Southall , include the Plough in Northfields , a Fuller ' s pub I visit recently , which do a lot to train and support its staff . however , over half of employee under 30 have be with their current employer for less than two year , and 42 % of black , asian and minority ethnic employee have be with their current employer for less than two year , compare with 28 % of white worker . the very young , black and asian worker that the Conservatives claim to care about be therefore exactly the people who will be help most by Labour ' s Employment Rights Bill . in fact , it be an all - too - common trick for bad employer to sack worker just before the two year be up . the Conservatives need to explain why they think it be okay that a young worker can be sack for no reason after 23 and a half month in the job , just so they do not get their right . the Conservatives ' motion also object to labour ' s plan to end exploitative zero - hour contract . who do they think be most likely to be on those kind of contract ? oh yes ! it be exactly the same young and often exclude worker , but they obviously do not care about they at all . Exploitative zero - hour contract do not just mean that worker do not know from week to week if they will be able to afford the rent ; they also put power into the hand of manager who can use the threat of people lose their hour to threaten and bully — you ' ve guess it — young , black and asian worker , who be often the most vulnerable at work . my hon . friend be make an excellent speech . small business in my constituency often tell I that they want to be really good employer . that be something that they take great pride in , but they get undercut by some of the bad employer . do she agree that the Bill be good not only for the worker but for the business ? I absolutely agree with my hon . friend . labour ' s Employment Rights Bill be all about level the playing field so that the effort make by the great employer that we have in this country , include hospitality employer , to look after their worker can be broaden out to the whole of the industry . the Conservatives also need to stop pretend that this change that Labour be bring in would stop seasonal work in the hospitality sector . stop make thing up ! a worker can stay on a zero - hour contract if that be what they want . many people will choose to do that if it fit with their life , but where there be clearly a regular job and someone have be work those hour for at least three month , they will have the right to a guarantee of those minimum hour . what be wrong with that ? the Tories need to explain why they think it be okay for young and often exclude worker to remain at the beck and call of bad manager , with no control over their hour and no financial security . our hospitality business be indeed often the first step on the employment ladder , and McDonald ' s in Southall be another great example of that . the Conservatives be busy try to knock people off that ladder . with Labour ' s Employment Rights Bill , we be help worker climb up the ladder into decent , well - pay job that their family can thrive on . I will speak about some of the hospitality business in my constituency , but I say to the hon . member for Ealing Southall ( Deirdre Costigan ) that that be an interesting speech ; I do not think much of it be base in reality , however , and I be more than happy to explain . the Employment Rights Bill will cost £ 5 billion by the Government ' s own assessment . the business that will bear the cost of that will then have to make cost - cut measure , and it be usually young people — I trust she that it might be ethnic minority who be at the vanguard — who be at risk . they be the one who will suffer and lose their job , because those business still have to make a profit . I broaden my point out to the Government Benches . I listen to the opening speech by the Minister . it be sometimes an entertaining speech , especially when he take my intervention , but sit here , I think , " there be a fundamental misunderstanding of what it mean to make a profit and how important that be to business . " that be literally the reason people go into business : to make a profit and generate cash . the rise in national insurance contribution — the job tax — and the Employment Rights Bill , which will cost £ 5 billion , be cost impose by the Labour Government . they make a choice to impose that on business . hospitality business suffer at the hand of the Labour Government be have to make tough choice , and that mean seasonal worker will not be employ , or not as many of they will be . we be already see that . when I quote the chair of ukhospitality to the Minister , he deny that and say it be not happen , but the stat say something different . over half of the job lose since the Budget have be lose as a result of labour ' s Budget . I have be speak to business since then , include Visit Knowle , Eric Lyons and the Barn at Berryfields — these be beautiful business that we have . we have the National Exhibition Centre , which be a great importer of tourism and which the Minister speak about , back by Birmingham airport . we have the Greenwood pub , Nailcote Hall , Three Trees community centre — I could go on and on . there be huge number of hospitality business , but they be all suffer the cost of the job tax , which disproportionally affect they . it mean that those business be not invest because they be have to save that money to pay the Chancellor . the hon . member mention cost on business . one of those cost be the cost of sick day , which have increase by £ 30 billion since 2018 . I visit a business recently in my constituency , and I be not go to lie : they say , " yes , it ' s a bit of a squeeze have to pay an increase in national insurance , " but then they say , " but we ' re save money on sick day because people be get the appointment they need in the NHS . " he will know that there have be 7 million more GP appointment . do he welcome that investment in the NHS and the fact that there be nearly 14 million few sick day in the last year ? I have a rude awakening for the hon . member , and it be a broad point about the debate . have listen to Government Members , and I suggest that they turn on the news and start look at what be happen to the bond market , because we be see record interest rate when the Government have to borrow . last year , all these Government Members back the Chancellor ' s fictitious black hole ; now she have a real black hole that she create , which she will have to deal with . I do not know what they think will happen at the Budget , but it will either be the cut that they oppose in the welfare Bill and other cut that they find unpalatable , or it will be further taxis raise on work people , who they purport to defend and support . when those taxis be impose on business , it will hurt either consumer sentiment or the business themselves . they will then have to make further job cut to survive . that be the reality ; everything have a consequence . what Labour member fail to understand be that it be absolutely essential — particularly because they talk about support such business — that they lobby the Chancellor to get a grip on the situation , instead of allow it to balloon completely out of control as a result of the measure they back last October . the consequence of that have be ten of thousand of job loss and thousand of business go under . I be deeply worried for my constituent . as much as I find the Minister ' s speech interesting and sometimes entertaining , I think that it be quite disrespectful to the hospitality sector , which be very worried . the chair of the big representative body of the hospitality sector be say that there be a problem , but she be be ignore or tell that there be no problem . hospitality business in the constituency of Labour mps will be knock on their door and ask for answer . I ask for a degree of humility because the reckoning be come — respected economist and think - tank be say it — as a consequence of the Chancellor ' s decision . I restate my request for a bit of humility and understanding of what the hospitality sector be go through . rise — order . after the next speaker , I will reduce the time limit to four minute . member might like to think about the length of intervention , or indeed whether intervention be need at all , give that plenty of colleague still wish to speak . the hospitality business across Gedling be more than just place to eat and drink ; they be the backbone of our community and the beat heart of our high street . from Carlton to Arnold , Mapperley to Netherfield and Burton Joyce to Bestwood Village , those business make gedle a great place to live , work and socialise . to every caf é owner , chef , pub landlord and staff member , and to all our small business , I say thank you . their hard work keep our town and village alive and our local economy move . just last week , I be proud to welcome the then Chief Secretary to the Treasury , my right hon . friend the Member for Bristol North West ( Darren Jones ) , to gedle to meet some of our fantastic small business — many of they in hospitality . at Mapperley Top , we hold a roundtable in La Zenia , a tapas restaurant that open a year ago — I send huge congratulation to Lucy and her brilliant team on their first year of business . my right hon . Friend also hear directly from copper , Steve ' s Bar , Deli - icious and Coosh bakery . in Arnold , we meet the passionate team at Cleo ' s deli , Taste First , the Empress , Chambers butcher and Paradise caf é . I thank my right hon . friend for visit and listen to gedle ' s fantastic small business , and congratulate he on his new role as Chief Secretary to the Prime Minister . may I also take this opportunity to congratulate the Woodlark Inn in Lambley , and its landlady , Emma , on recently be name one of the good 500 pub in England by the Telegraph ? over the summer , I have the brilliant opportunity to enjoy a pint at the Abdication in Daybrook , the four Bells Inn in Woodborough , the Waggon and Horses in Redhill — my local — and the Bread and Bitter at Mapperley Top , among the many other brilliant pub in Gedling . I will always fight the corner of gedle ' s many amazing small business . that be why , last year , I launch my own annual small business award to celebrate small business throughout Gedling . with so many amazing business across Carlton , Netherfield , Burton Joyce and beyond in the wide gedle area , our door be always open to Government Ministers who wish to come and listen and support our local small business community . my hon . friend be do an amazing job of talk about the importance of small hospitality business to the local community . do he agree that that extend beyond economic value to their value more generally ? the Golden Smog , a friendly family pub in my constituency , support an inclusive basketball team and have raise £ 700 , 000 from its annual " palegrimage " — it be like a pilgrimage but involve ale , so it be even well . will he join I in congratulate that pub ? [ Official Report , 16 September 2025 ; Vol . 772 , c . 6wc . ] ( Correction ) I congratulate the Golden Smog on its initiative . I look forward to have a pint there with my hon . friend next time I be in his constituency . gedling have nearly 3 , 000 business , 98 % of which be small or micro . retail and hospitality alone support over a quarter of the job in my constituency . those be not just number ; they represent livelihood , family and future . that be why I welcome the Labour Government step in where the last Conservative Government leave a cliff edge . instead of pull the rug out from under small business , we be provide a lifeline : a 40 % business rate relief , target where it be need most . labour do not turn its back on small business ; we back they . More than 10 , 000 pub and bar shut under the Conservatives . by contrast , this Labour Government be act : permanent business rate cut from 2026 ; high - street rental auction ; and a ban on unfair rent clause — real measure to make our high street revive and thrive . the conservative motion mention " catastrophic choice " , but Conservative Members should take a long , hard look in the mirror . on their watch , inflation peak at 11 . 1 % in October 2022 , and food inflation hit 19 % by March 2023 . [ interruption . ] I can hear chuntering on the Opposition Benches , but those inflation level do not just hit household budget ; they scar small business in Gedling and across the country . when the hon . Gentleman prepare his agenda for the next small company roundtable , will he ask company how they be get on with the 8 . 7 % national insurance increase , and the total employment cost increase of 12 . 4 % as a result of the Budget ? that be four time inflation . I think he will be surprised how uncomfortable the answer be . with the great respect to the hon . Gentleman , the business do a grand job of tell the Minister their view directly . I do not think that they need any lecture from he on how to run their business . while caf é , pub and shop fight to stay open , the Conservatives be too busy fight among themselves to help small business . this Labour Government be turn the page . through our plan for small and medium - sized business , gedle employer be get the support that they need to recover , grow and thrive , and we be already see the result . the opposition talk about job loss , but the fact be that employment have rise by more than 625 , 000 , and economic inactivity have fall by 338 , 000 . that be not rhetoric ; it be progress under this Labour Government . the previous Conservative Government wreck the economy , leave inflation spiral and turn their back on the high street . in Gedling , the damage be clear for my constituent to see : vacant unit on the high street ; council cut that have leave our town centre less clean ; and , yes , crumble pavement and road in and around our high street . in just over a year , under this Prime Minister and the Under - Secretary of State for Business and Trade , the hon . member for Harrow West ( Gareth Thomas ) , Labour be turn thing around . it be back small business , especially in hospitality ; get people back into work ; deliver a new deal for work people ; and , yes — although the Conservatives do not like the fact — grow the economy fast than any other G7 nation . that be what we get with a Labour Government , and by gosh , after 14 year of conservative neglect , it can not come fast enough for my constituent , and for business in Gedling . the hospitality sector be all too often overlook , yet it be one of the most vital pillar not just of our economy , but of our community . my constituency have 215 register business in accommodation and food service , contribute at least 4 , 000 job — nearly one in 10 local job . the sector really matter to cheshire ' s economy . each year , it contribute £ 370 million in Cheshire East , and £ 390 million in Cheshire West and Chester . hospitality , however , be be punish with high taxis and even more regulation . since be elect , I have be meet and listen to our local business owner , and I hear the same message time and again : time be tough , and they need policy that deliver stability , champion growth and secure the future of the sector — none of which this Government have deliver . instead , policy after policy have punish small business owner , especially in hospitality . do not just take my word for it . early this year , I sit down with Woody Barlow who run the Swan in Tarporley and the Lion at Malpas , two of our fantastic local village pub . Woody tell I that the 2024 Budget hit his business hard through increase employer national insurance contribution and reduce business rate relief . what strike I most be his concern for his staff and community . he be not just worried about profit , but about young people . their first job in a local pub can be vital ; they learn soft skill , gain confidence and work in a team . I also meet William Lees - Jones , manage director of JW Lees brewery , a seventh - generation family business , approach its 200th anniversary . it supply and run well over 100 pub across the north - west , not to mention its inn and hotel . William raise serious concern about propose change to business property relief . the brewery have consistently reinveste its profit to grow and innovate , create job , support community and contribute to our economy . before the Budget , it forecast the creation of 178 new job in 2025 , but after the spring statement , William tell I that he be not sure those job will be possible . Jake , at the Fire Station in Malpas , speak to I about the impact of vat , along with increase wage cost , and how that threaten his ability to run a much - love caf é at the heart of the local community . add to that the surge cost of utility and the anti - growth , anti - business measure in the Employment Rights Bill , and it be clear that the sector be under immense pressure . I want to emphasise just how important hospitality be in rural community like mine . yes , a pub be a place to grab a pint , and a caf é be a great place to get a coffee , but they be so much more . just last Thursday , I attend the first " chatty caf é " at Tilly ' s in Bunbury , a scheme that provide vital social contact , particularly for old people . I meet Charles , who be 86 year old and travel from Crewe every week to have his breakfast and a chat at Tilly ' s . for many in our rural area , caf é s and pub be lifeline . they host community group , offer local service and provide a space where people feel connected . with their unfair taxation , economic mismanagement and poorly think - out legislation , this Government be put pub , caf é s and restaurant , and the job that they create and support , at risk . I will continue to speak up for the hospitality business in Chester South and Eddisbury , and I thank they for everything that they do for our local economy and our community . anyone who know my constituency of Leeds North West will know how much our pub , caf é s and restaurant mean to people . do not get I start on the coffee from Woodlawn , the cake from the Bramble Bakehouse , the croissant from the Underground Bakery and the curry from Daastan . we have nearly 300 place to eat , 72 pub and three fantastic brewery . they be where people meet , celebrate birthday and meet their friend , and they help to keep our high street alive . I be in they most weekend , and with typical Yorkshire honesty , the owner never sugar - coat it — they tell I straight about the pressure that they face . I listen to what the hon . member for Meriden and Solihull East ( Saqib Bhatti ) say about humility , but let we be clear that the pressure that we be talk about do not come out of nowhere , and they do not start in July last year . under the Conservatives , more than 6 , 000 pub and bar close . the legacy of a decade of neglect be shutter shopfront , struggle high street and local people lose the place that hold community together . I know that thing be tough and how hard business be work , and I applaud and appreciate all that they be do . I commit to be a champion for they . I be proud to be part of a Labour Government who be begin to address the challenge by cut red tape and provide for new hospitality and night - time economy zone to simplify licensing , boost footfall and support al fresco dining . I be proud to be part of a Labour party that be revitalise our high street . the new high street rental auction be absolutely brilliant . in Otley , I be work with local business on the " take back Fultons " campaign . for many year , there have be a huge empty building on the high street , which have be an eyesore . we be look to bring it back into use , through initiative introduce by this Labour Government . minister from across Government be meet I next week to talk about the campaign , because these be cross - government initiative . we be on the side of hospitality . early this year , business be stare at a cliff edge , with temporary business rate relief due to expire . this Government step in with a 40 % discount for retail , hospitality and leisure property , up to a cash cap of £ 110 , 000 , and a freeze in the small business multiplier . together , that support package be worth over £ 1 . 6 billion in 2025 - 26 , save the average pub more than £ 3 , 300 in 2025 . I know that minister be look closely at business rate over the next few month to ensure long - term certainty , and small business across my constituency would certainly welcome that . this government have do what every pub - goer can cheer : they have cut duty on draught beer and take a penny off a pint . through the hospitality support scheme , I be proud that this government be back Pub be the Hub , give community pub the support that they need to keep deliver for their community . it be breathe life back into the high street , back community pub and support the caf é s and restaurant that make place like Otley , Yeadon , Adel and Horsforth such brilliant place to live . we in Leeds North West can already see what success look like . bavette in Horsforth take over a vacant high street unit , and within a year it be award a Bib Gourmand . in Otley , a wave of female - lead business be drive a revival , from Belle beauty salon and Mollie & Mauve florist to the Secret Garden caf é and the Bookshop on the Square . vacancy rate in our town be now well below the national average , and footfall be hit record high . that be the strength and spirit of our local entrepreneur , and with Labour backing hospitality , I know that we will hear many more story like those . with Yorkshire honesty , I will say it plainly : if we want strong community , we have to back hospitality . under Labour , that be what we be do , and will continue to do . the pub , restaurant , caf é s and hotel in our hospitality sector be not just place to eat and drink ; they be the heart of our community . they provide job , keep our high street alive and make our community well and strong , but many of they tell I that they feel abandon as a result of the Government policy that we be discuss . across the country , an average of 30 pub close their door every week . in Taunton and Wellington , Shane Fisher , who run the lovely Allerford Inn at Norton Fitzwarren , have recently take on the Racehorse Inn in Taunton town centre . he describe policy effect that be simply unsustainable . the business rate that he pay be now great than his lease — than the cost of the building . business rate at that level simply can not be right . the Castle hotel in Taunton , an iconic landmark that have be a hotel since 1786 and have famously be run by the Chapman family since 1950 , face similar challenge . in 2024 - 25 , it pay £ 21 , 000 in business rate ; the very next year , it be be ask to pay well over double : £ 52 , 000 . that be an increase of £ 30 , 000 . when that be combine with the damaging increase in national insurance last year and other cost increase , upwards of £ 200 , 000 have be add to its cost in a single year . the little Wine Shop in Taunton ' s great independent quarter tell I that this kind of increase in cost , couple with vat , be kill the industry . I hope the Minister agree that these increase be simply unsustainable for small family business . as a result , all these kind of business be in survival mode . hospitality business need support , not just through fair taxis , but by see the benefit of their taxis be invest in public service , such as police . that be why I be delighted that our Liberal Democrat town council in Taunton be introduce street marshal , who will provide reassurance , safety and support to people in the town centre . I welcome the Government ' s 10 extra police officer in Taunton and west Somerset . we have campaign to restore proper community policing , which reassure people . visible patrol be essential for the confidence of trader and customer alike . too often , Government treat police purely as a cost , and fail to see its economic benefit . lift town centre business by provide safe environment that attract customer be hugely valuable . nowhere be that more true than for hospitality , and I encourage the Government to go far on that . the Government ' s business rate hit hard the brick - and - mortar business that make up our town centre . on top of that , there be the rise in national insurance , which be nothing more than a tax on job . the burden fall most heavily on business and sector like hospitality , which have a large proportion of part - time worker . I recently visit the General Tarleton in Ferrensby , which have just reopen . a fantastic group of people have create the Jeopardy Hospitality project , which reopen pub that have close down ; those involve include the celebrity chef Tommy Banks and Matt Lockwood . pub be the heart of the community . do my hon . friend agree that people who take these risk and try to put the heart back in our community deserve help , not a clobbering from this Government ? I completely agree with my hon . friend , and look forward to visit they with he when I be next in his constituency . hospitality be not ask for special treatment . rather , it be ask for fairness , a level play field and the chance to compete , invest and thrive without be penalise by the tax system . that be why Liberal Democrats have long call for business rate to be scrap and replace with a fair system , one that shift the burden from the tenant to the landowner , and it be why we oppose the rise in national insurance contribution , which squeeze small firm and worker alike . the Government need to listen to the hotelier , publican and restaurateur in town such as Taunton and Wellington , because unless thing change , more door will close , more job will go , and community across the country will be poor for it . I spend my summer on a tour across my constituency , hold over 80 surgery , meet resident face to face and hear about the challenge in their community . in the large constituency in England , which take in part of Newcastle and stretch all the way up to the scottish border , you certainly get a variety of casework and conversation . it would not have be possible to complete that summer tour without the generous hospitality of many hospitality business throughout the constituency . Caf é s , pub , restaurant and hotel all open their door to I and my team , allow we to meet local resident and hear the concern that matter most to they . I thank the St Mary ' s Inn ; the Shoulder of Mutton in Longhorsley ; the George Hotel in Chollerton ; the Crown Inn in Humshaugh ; the Hemmel in Allenheads ; the King ' s Head in Allendale ; the Rochester Relish ; the Duke of Wellington in Riding Mill ; oddfellow in Haydon Bridge ; the Blenkinsopp Castle Inn in Blenkinsopp ; the Engine Inn in Walbottle ; the Poacher ' s Cottage in Callerton ; the Tea on the Train in Bellingham ; the Northumberland Arms in West Thirston ; Battlesteads Hotel and Restaurant in Wark ; the Rose and Crown in Slaley ; the Lord Crewe Arms in Blanchland ; the Village Store and Coffee Shop in Matfen ; the Blacksmith ' s Coffee Shop in Belsay ; the Running Fox in Kirkharle ; and the Bowes Hotel in Bardon Mill , alongside a lot of church , village hall and community organisation . it be incredible to sit down with a cup of tea with your constituent and speak about the issue that matter to they , be they international issue , national one , or thing such as road marking and speed concern . I be also able to visit the Bridge End Inn in Ovingham , which recently reopen after a refurbishment , something that have be much welcome by local . I know the impact that the hospitality industry have on rural community or community on the outskirt of Newcastle . as have be say many time , pub and cafe define those community , and an empty pub — an empty building in the heart of those community — can truly blight they and lead to decline confidence . that be why the first letter I write after my election be to a Minister in the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government , urge they to release the money to allow the Samson Inn in Gilsland to reopen . I will now stop name quite so many local business . one of the issue that business raise with I be that poor investment in road infrastructure and in public transport often lead to delay in worker get to and from the business . another be that a real issue with road surface and road resurface communication from local government be impact their ability to open properly — for example , falconry day near Simonburn have see the road from Chollerton up to Wark close . large business have be notify , but they do not feel they have receive notice from the county council . that cost they booking and potential footfall , and it really do cause concern . it be one of the many way in which I feel that Northumberland county council — which , sadly , be still lead by the Conservatives — let down the west of the county . colleague have already identify the many issue face the sector . these be thing that I hear about from its representative every day — I go out and meet with they . I say that I would be a constituency MP , and I hope that 80 surgery in four week demonstrate that I will do my good on that front . ultimately , I want to make sure that I hear concern directly from local business , without the kind of political theatre that we be often all too guilty of in this place . that enable we to make sure we have the proper conversation with Government and reflect those conversation back in the most effective way possible . if we do not recognise how vital hospitality be — as the first foot on the ladder for young people , as a defining enterprise in a town , or as a local landmark — we risk lose something that be at the heart of not just our economy and our local economy , but of what it mean to be English and to be british . ultimately , there be nothing more emblematic of community than sit down , whether that be in Humshaugh , in Wark or in Callerton , have a drink or a coffee and speak to the people who be at the heart of community — those who define we and define themselves . I draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I have receive hospitality below the threshold from ukhospitality , the british Beer and Pub Association , the Campaign for Real Ale and probably the British Institute of Innkeeping . hospitality , as have be say , offer more than just a place for food and drink . with Pub be the Hub , I be fortunate to see pub in Cornwall that offer everything from the last village shop to job , club and even the village hairdresser and barber . I think of the venue that provide drop - in session to tackle loneliness and isolation in our community , and I think of all the pub , caf é s and restaurant up and down the country that fund grassroots sport and raise enormous amount of money for charity and local good cause . that be why the previous Government work so hard to try to support they . they scrap labour ' s beer duty escalator . there be a series of freeze and cut in alcohol duty , and a new draught beer duty differential , so that a pint in a pub always pay less duty than equivalent beer buy in supermarket . we have 75 % business rate relief for hospitality business , take three quarter off their bill . we must not forget the ten of billion of pound invest in support hospitality during the pandemic and as we recover from the effect of covid . even though that support make the difference between survive and go under for many , it be still tight . many still carry a lot of covid debt and they still need our support . instead , they have suffer a continuous onslaught of taxis and high cost cause by labour ' s choice since the election . the change to national insurance contribution , the national minimum wage and business rate have pile an additional £ 3 . 4 billion a year on to business , and the Government have hit hospitality business that rely on many part - time staff particularly hard . it be no wonder that eight in 10 operator have be force to raise their price since April . business rate more than double for a small independent pub or caf é have mean that thousand of pound be out of the till before a single pint have be pull or a single breakfast serve . those be fix cost that many just can not meet . some 69 % of business be run below require capacity because of staff and cost pressure . one in eight be plan to cut site and two third have cut staff hour . as have be say , the chair of ukhospitality put it plainly last month when she say : " at a time when the country need job , the Government should be encourage hospitality to grow and create job , not tax they out of existence . " as we prepare for the pre - Christmas Budget , we need the Government to take this issue seriously and to take hospitality need seriously . they need to fix national insurance contribution by raise the threshold , particularly for small venue . they should introduce exemption for young people and returner to work . we need they to reconsider their plan to pile further burden on small business next year . we need they to come good on their promise to reform business rate and make sure that when that reform finally happen , those business be pay bill that be low , not high than what they be pay last year . finally , the Government should look at how some flexibility can be add to covid loan repayment so that those loan do not threaten otherwise viable business . hospitality be at the heart of our economy , with the sector contribute as the third - large employer in the country . every one of our constituency have belove restaurant , caf é s , pub , hotel and high street that contribute to our local economy , as well as our local community and cultural landscape . these venue provide place for family to meet and for friend to get together and to catch up for special milestone and celebration . if you might indulge I , Madam Deputy Speaker , I take a moment to congratulate my parent , Pat and Kelvin , on their diamond wedding anniversary . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] just two week ago , we celebrate with a pub lunch at the Jolly Topers . I thank the team there for make that lunch special ; they really do know what customer service be . we have a slightly more boisterous evening with Artan and co . at Lartista , celebrate my niece ' s brilliant exam result . [ hon . member : " congratulation ! " ] thank you very much . she do very well . we in Luton be definitely a community that know how to celebrate , and wedding venue be no exception . Venue Central , Crescent Hall and the new Grand Royale Banqueting be all fantastic hospitality venue . as part of these wonderful celebration , we do of course have firework , but may I take a moment to say that we need to be considerate ? too often in Luton , firework be let off outwith the time when they be allow , late at night , in place where they disturb our neighbour . I therefore support the private Member ' s Bill table by my friend and neighbour , my hon . friend the Member for Luton North ( Sarah Owen ) , which be intend to reduce the noise category available when firework be buy in public , and to review the current regulation govern their online sale . our Labour Government continue to invest in my constituency and across the eastern region , green - light the expansion of London Luton airport and approve plan for the new Universal Studios theme park in Bedfordshire . both provide key opportunity for local hotel and restaurant to thrive , with a significant uptake and footfall expect as the plan get under way — not to mention the hospitality venue associate with the new football stadium at Power Court , once it be build . I welcome the Government ' s proposal to establish a visitor economy advisory council , which will drive effort to fulfil the UK ' s ambition of welcome 50 million international visitor annually by 2030 , boost hospitality and cultural activity across the country . small business and hospitality do face challenge , but through our plan for change and our commitment we be turn the tide on 14 year of failure under the Conservatives . they dither and delay on business rate reform , create a cliff edge for hospitality business , and I be proud that this Labour Government be commit to revitalise our high street through permanent cut in business rate . when the temporary business rate relief be due to expire , it be this Labour Government who step in to deliver a 40 % discount to retail , hospitality and leisure property with a cash cap of £ 110 , 000 per business , as well as freeze the small business multiplier . that support package be worth more than £ 1 . 6 billion in 2025 - 26 , and from April next year high street retail , hospitality and leisure property with rateable value below £ 500 , 000 will enjoy permanently low business rate . I could go on . we be tackle the scourge of late payment , we intend to ban upward - only rent review clause , and we will expand start - up loan for small business . all those measure will support hospitality . we will invest in our business to ensure that local community not only feel the economic benefit , but thrive . the hospitality sector be a major employer in my constituency . in Bromley town centre , in Hayes — which have the excellent New Inn — and in Biggin Hill , Coney Hall , Bickley and Keston , we be lucky to have many fantastic small and independent pub , caf é s and restaurant . however , they be struggle to afford labour ' s tax hike . the Government ' s decision to increase employer ' s national insurance contribution be a job tax . business have to pay an average of £ 900 for every job they support , and the situation be make bad by the decision to slash business rate relief for retail , hospitality and leisure business . for an independent pub in my constituency with a rateable value of £ 98 , 000 , the change in relief and the increase in the standard multipli have add £ 20 , 000 to its tax bill . all this be happen as energy bill and inflation rise again under Labour , increase business ' cost and squeeze consumer spending . it be no wonder that few hospitality business can withstand Labour ' s tax raid . we have already hear about the 84 , 000 hospitality job that have be lose over the past 12 month , but I do not think the Government appreciate the damage that they be inflict on community . much - love business be close their door and local job opportunity be shrink , and it be particularly affect young people and old worker seek part - time employment . this threaten to gut high street , knock local pride and leave place poorer , and to add insult to injury , Labour have change inheritance rule to tax any family business that survive its anti - business policy when the next generation pick up the baton . it have be say many time that these decision expose the lack of business experience in the Cabinet . worryingly , the Government be look to double down on this " tax everything " approach . they need to change course before we become a nation of shutter shop and broken dream . I declare an interest as a former barman , a former waiter , a former pie seller and someone who have do essentially every front - of - house job — except chef , unfortunately . I come at today ' s debate from the position of a former hospitality worker . it might be slightly over three year since I last pull a pint , but I have to say that in debate such as this , the insight from hospitality worker be oddly miss . hospitality be a hard job , and it can be rewarding . I make lifelong friendship through the 14 or 15 - hour back - to - back wedding shift that I pull to get myself through university , but hospitality be often treat corrosively as a secondary , less - worthwhile occupation . that completely wrong - head perspective be drip off the page of the Opposition ' s motion today . it say that we must " amend the Employment Rights Bill to protect seasonal and flexible employment practice " . what that say to the 3 . 5 million hospitality worker in this country — it be the third large sector in the UK — be that they should be part of a two - tier workforce and have less employment right than every other worker . which right should hospitality worker be exclude from ? should they be able to be sack in the first two year of employment for no good reason ? should they be disqualify from parity in sick pay ? should they not be entitle to a contract that reflect their hour work ? the motion state that if someone work behind a bar , they should be entitle to few right than those who work behind a desk . I would like to draw attention of the House to the recent victory of the young unionised worker at the Village hotel in Govan . these hospitality worker win a pay rise , backdate to 1 April 2024 , on the term of equal pay regardless of age . young worker bring their employer to the table and , in a cost of live crisis , it will now value the value of their labour properly . thank to the universality of the Employment Rights Bill and the collective action of the workforce in hospitality , the era of poverty pay and contractual insecurity , which have be rife in the sector , will come to an end . today ' s motion set a targeted approach : to bring that era back just for the people who keep our hard - work hospitality sector tick . not a pint be pour , nor a meal serve or a single beat of music play , without the express permission of hospitality staff — a reminder for all of we in this House that the worker be the hospitality sector . I will be proud to stand up today for my pal I work beside in hospitality , who do essential , hard , skilled work , which this motion seek to dimmish by suggest that those of we who make law , instead of make bed , should weaken their employment right today . we have hear a lot from those on the Government Benches about how they be improve the experience of business across the country . I come in peace ; I hope they will take I sincerely when I say that that be absolutely not the feedback I be get from my hospitality sector , and certainly not from my publican . I represent 52 pub and three brewery in my constituency , and please take I at my word : I be try to get to all of they . the House may have hear of a cult YouTube channel and Facebook page entitle " the great british Pub Crawl " , which be run by Dale and Holly and have a combine online followership of over 200 , 000 subscriber . their mission be to highlight the state of the hospitality sector across the UK by have a drink at every pub in the country . I wish they every success and a responsible alcohol intake . " the great british Pub Crawl " be in Luton last week , and I just want to flag that Dale and Holly say that Luton have a variety of brilliant pub and that they really enjoy their time there . I do not doubt that . I be sure Luton be second only to Tewkesbury . over the summer recess , a friend of mine reach out , tell I who Dale and Holly be and ask I to meet they . I do so when they visit Tewkesbury . I sit down with both of they at the Bell Inn , outside Tewkesbury abbey . they and I have very different occupation , but the great thing about pub be that people often meet other from different background . we get to know other people and , without know it , our social skill and ability to speak and listen to other develop along the way . I get on really well with Dale and Holly . we discuss how our pub be far more than just drink space ; they be as synonymous with british culture as drink tea , complain about the weather and even queue . for 800 year , pub like the Black Bear in Tewkesbury have provide place to work and to tackle loneliness . I love to visit the King Teddy in Longlevens so that I can watch Tottenham Hotspur play — it be very convenient when I need to drown my sorrow afterwards — and I host a surgery there over the recess . Dale and I agree that these vital space be under great threat , partly because of action that this Government have take . beer duty cost patron and put venue under strain , and the Government must recognise the need to far reduce it . the rise in national insurance contribution disproportionately affect the hospitality sector . I do hope — and I say this in good faith — that the Government will change direction quickly . it be a pleasure to speak in this debate . I be proud to be one of the vice - chair of the all - party parliamentary group for the night time economy . like all of we , it seem , I have be take the opportunity to engage with all the hospitality business across my constituency and company that form part of the supply chain . when I say talk to all of they , I mean the independent , the tie pub , the brewery and the franchisee . what they be not talk to I about be wage . they be also not talk about staff hour and contract . even after push from I , they be say that while the national insurance increase be a concern , it do not even make it into their top 10 problem . be the hon . Lady aware of the comment in the Scottish Parliament yesterday by the chief executive of the Scottish Tourism Alliance ? he say that " the first half of this year be brutal " , and that the increase in employer ' s national insurance contribution have result in a " loss of job " . be he wrong ? I respect the comment , but I have not hear it , because I have be look at other thing today . I be reflect what business be tell I , and as I think the hon . Member will have find in his own constituency , they be talk to I about far more fundamental issue for the hospitality industry in Scotland . they have remind I that hospitality business in Scotland be close at twice the rate they be in the rest of the country , and that although there be investment in the hospitality sector in the scottish budget for the current year , it be the first time that have happen . the Scottish Licensed Trade Association have express to I that the scottish hospitality industry be start off £ 200 million behind the rest of the country because of how the Scottish Government be react . those business talk to I about the vow of silence from the Scottish Government on business rate and about the need for certainty , but also about improve of planning process ; for the big brewery and pub landlord , the sheer amount of time that development take mean that it be easy to invest in other part of the UK than in Scotland . plan for a new - build hospitality business or a change of use take year . disproportionate cut to local government planning service in ongoing Scottish Government budget have have a wide effect across the whole sector . the hon . member be probably right that the NICs issue be in the mix , but these matter be much more of an issue , certainly in my sector locally . last weekend , as part of Scotland love local Week , I be proud to join Kilsyth councillor Jean Jones and Heather Brannan - McVey in visit the relatively newly own urban Grind coffee shop in Kilsyth . the owner Martin and Marie tell I — over coffee — about their struggle in get the facility open for business , get the change of use from a vacant shop to a hospitality business , and the need to build a fence between the outside sit area and the soft play area next door . but they also tell I about their investment in a young workforce , who combine study with working , and the importance of work with business in the area . it be good to see the place so full , and I hope those who go to watch Chris Hoy ' s Tour De 4 go through Kilsyth on Sunday make a point of visit not just Urban Grind , but the Coachman , the Scarecrow or the boathouse , because it be a circular economy ; local business support other local business and make sure that they invest . when local business use hotel in the local community — the local independent — and do not bring people in from Glasgow , there be more chance of the local community benefit . everybody I speak to talk about quality , a change market and a more discern customer . they say that a great proportion of the business be about food and soft drink than ever before , and that they have to work hard to get customer , but that when they do provide high quality and good value , they get loyalty . in conclusion , our hospitality industry be continually change as our habit change . that be a good thing . the hospitality sector should fulfil a key role in our community , which be way big than the blinker way outline in the motion . rise — the House will have see that many member be seek to catch my eye . after the next speaker , there will be three - minute time limit . as Members of Parliament , we receive campaign email after campaign email every week on dozen of issue , from environmental matter to recent call for a general election . amid all that , there be one concern that continue to cut through : support for our pub and the wide hospitality sector . why ? because the UK ' s hospitality sector be more than just about business . it be a vital part of the social fabric of our community . whether it be the Nook caf é in Anstey , the Ex - Servicemen ' s Club in Groby or the Coach and Horses in Markfield , these be not simply place to eat and drink ; they be place of refuge from everyday life , place where people come together and place that sustain the spirit of our town and village . yet what do we see from this Government ? with starmer the pub harmer at the helm , it seem they be determined to call last order on our fantastic hospitality sector . since the general election , we have witness a series of reckless decision that have shatter business confidence . take the Chancellor ' s disastrous autumn Budget , which slash the rate relief for the retail , hospitality and leisure sector and impose damaging rise in employer ' s national insurance contribution ; or look at the Secretary of State for Business and Trade attempt to push one of the most damaging employment Bills in a generation through Parliament — and I know so , because I sit on the Bill Committee . the legislation will do more to hinder job creation than to help worker . in my own constituency , I have speak to countless publican and small business owner who be feel the strain — none more so than the Royal Oak in Kirby Muxloe , which recently win my Mid Leicestershire good pub competition . local hospitality business in Mid Leicestershire pose the same question to I time after time . should they raise their price and risk lose customer , or should they cut staff and reduce their opening hour just to stay afloat ? neither choice be fair and neither be sustainable . across the country , we have see the consequence : 83 , 000 hospitality job lose as a direct result of this Government ' s action . and what for the future ? we know the Chancellor be face a self - inflict £ 40 billion black hole as a result of her Budget , and with the recent reshuffle at No . 10 , with supporter of high taxis and high spending be promote , there be a worry among business in Mid Leicestershire that the bad be yet to come . it do not have to be this way . if the Government would only listen to industry expert such as ukhospitality and the british Beer and Pub Association , or to brewer such as Punch Pubs and Everards , we could actually help the industry rather than hinder it . I urge the Government to act boldly and continue to cut business rate relief for the hospitality sector , reduce duty on draught beer and low vat on product sell in hospitality setting , just as many of our european neighbour do . it be time that the Government stop punish the sector and listen to the rational argument of those who work in and care so much about the industry they love . order . I remind member that we do not refer to other member by name in this Chamber . in the spirit of the Minister ' s invitation , I invite any Member to come to one of our brilliant Black Country Desi pub , or to come and eat orange chip with I next to the canal . everyone in this Chamber want high and rise wage , and for their constituent to feel that they can just take the family out for a curry on a Friday night . that be why I be so disappointed to see in the wording of the motion before we today an attack on the Low Pay Commission — a piece of settle government machinery that have serve government of all party well . the commission be tripartite , represent business , union and academic ; it consult business closely , visit employer and talk to both manager and worker . if Conservative Members be to read the report of the last session of the Low Pay Commission , they would find that it visit hospitality business in the city of Glasgow , speak both to worker and to the people run those business . it be one of the very good , most consensual way of form Government policy , and I be disappoint in the attack on it , especially as it be at present chair by a conservative peer . I stand here today , as I always do , represent worker . many hospitality worker be represent by my union , Unite . I be proud of the record of our Government , for far from be a Bill that attack the hospitality sector , the Employment Rights Bill be write with the hospitality sector in mind . the extension of day one right be a policy tailor - make for the hospitality sector ; as 50 % of all hospitality worker do not have two year ' service , they can be hire and fire at will , as if we be America . that be not what we want in our economy . why should it be possible for someone who have work faithfully for an employer for a year and 11 month to lose their job overnight , with no process and no reason , mean they can not pay the rent next month ? we will stop that . ditto zero - hour contract , on which 18 % of hospitality worker be employ — the high of any sector . let we remind ourselves of the reality of that . worker on zero - hour contract can not set thing up because they do not know when they will be work . they may get a text message when they be stand at the bus stop on the way to their shift saying , " sorry mate , we don ' t need you today . Don ' t come in . " we will ban those contract . my last point be on sick pay . some 279 , 000 worker in the hospitality sector earn below the low earning limit , and we will make sure they be entitle to sick pay . this be labour deliver for worker . the Tories and the Lib Dems , along with their mate in Reform , have gang up together in the House of Lords to try to gut the Employment Rights Bill , but we will not have it . I do not want the hospitality worker serve I a curry on Friday night — Order . I call Damian Hinds . I be sad to say that the number of payroll employee in this country have fall by 149 , 000 in the past year . we now have unemployment inch up towards 5 % , with youth unemployment much high than that . why do I mention that in the context of a debate about hospitality ? it be because a disproportionate number of job — ten of thousand — have be lose in this sector . it be absolutely fundamental to employment , along with the retail and care sector . it be a shame that hospitality be not deem worthy of a chapter in the Government ' s industrial strategy , because if it have be — or , indeed , if the Government have an employment strategy — they would not have do what they do in the Budget . the hospitality sector be incredibly important . it be important to I personally , as it happen ; like many other , I have my first job in hospitality . actually , it be where I spend most of my career before I become a Member of Parliament . more importantly , hospitality be important to my constituency , as it be to just about every constituency in the country . in my case , it employ around 2 , 000 people across some 200 establishment , include a number of historic heritage pub . hospitality be important to our nation partly because of all those job , but also because an important part of the hospitality sector be overnight hospitality , which be fundamental to tourism , which in turn bring in such important export earning . I do worry that with all this talk of tourism taxis , it be start to sound like people think that tourism be , in some way , a problem to be mitigate . tourism do have issue , of course , but fundamentally , tourism — especially inbound tourism — be an exceptional opportunity to be grab . it be not just about the number of job ; it be about who those job be for . this sector be a key source of first job and job for people come back to the labour market , include those who be the very furth from work . I think of some of the great work do by hospitality business — include by one of my old employer , Greene King — with people leave the criminal justice system , for example . of course , we be talk disproportionately about part - time worker . the sector have suffer terrible blow from the big increase in business rate , and the two effect through national insurance contribution , both in the rate and in the threshold , have disproportionately affect part - time worker . we hope for some relief in the delayed Budget when it eventually come , but there be something Ministers could do now ahead of the Budget to mitigate the situation . I be talk about the Employment Rights Bill . I know that zero - hour contract have have a sort of totemic importance for Labour Members ever since their last leader make it so , but we have to get past the idea that a zero - hour contract be necessarily try to exploit worker ; it be not . the NHS have many bank worker in hospital on zero - hour contract . student will often work on zero - hour contract so they can stay in their job , even when they move between home and university . the two thing the Government could do to mitigate the situation be to lengthen the reference period to reflect seasonality and to make sure that it be an opt - in right , rather than something that have to be offer repeatedly . in my constituency of Stirling and Strathallan , castle and scenery may draw tourist , but it be the people in our pub , caf é s , restaurant , club and hotel who make they feel welcome . in my constituency , we have no shortage of world - class heritage , picturesque rural community , scenery , and pub , restaurant and caf é s . at Stirling castle , visitor can see the great kitchen that provide the hospitality to the court of many a Stuart monarch . after that , they can go to the Portcullis hotel or Stirling ' s old pub , the Settle Inn , which be build in 1733 . in Causewayhead , the Birds & Bees be nestle in the shadow of the Wallace monument . in Balmaha , we have the Oak Tree Inn on the shore of Loch Lomond . in Tyndrum , the Real Food Cafe and the wonderfully name Green welly Stop be on the West Highland Way . visitor to Bannockburn — where Robert the Bruce defeat the English — can go to the 1314 pub , the King Robert Hotel , the Borestone Bar , or the Tartan Arms , where the steak pie , in my opinion , be the good in Scotland . out west to Gartmore be the Black Bull bar and restaurant , which be take over by the community and be now run as a charity . the macaroni there be a treat . in Kippen , we have the Cross Keys pub and the Woodhouse farm shop and restaurant , which be great for a Sunday drive . the Buttercup caf é in Doune be wonderful for lunch . in Kinbuck , Andy and Kim Murray be breathe new life into the Cromlix House hotel , and , of course , we have the world - famous Gleneagles as well . in Fallin , a mining village , we have the Gothenburg — or simply the Goth — which be a community - run pub found in 1911 . it be one of the few remain still run under the Gothenburg system with all the profit donate to the community . during the miner ' strike in the 1980 , it host soup kitchen and support miner ' strike fund . when the opposition talk about their conversation with hospitality business , what they leave out be as tell as what they put in . too often , they be not talk to or listen to the employee themselves . those employee deserve the good employment right and a fair wage for do their job , which be why I be proud of this Government ' s landmark Employment Rights Bill and our commitment on the living wage . I set out this roll - call of hospitality not just to show my pride in Stirling and Strathallan , but because I have have to cut out all of my other point as the speech time limit have be reduce . I also want to make a point that be often lose in these debate : for every venue that struggle — and there be venue struggle , include in my constituency — there be many more that be thrive , innovate and contribute to their community . let I end by offer my thank to everybody work in hospitality in Stirling and Strathallan , and across the United Kingdom . they be do a remarkable job , and our community and our country be all the well for it . I congratulate the thousand of hospitality worker across South Devon for come to the end of another summer season , cater to visitor from far and wide — from Brixham to Bigbury and from Start Point up to Dartmoor . with 2 , 618 establishment in my constituency , member will be pleased to hear that I be not go to start name they all — [ interruption . ] I would miss someone out for sure . time and again , this sector be overlook . although it be the third large employer in the country , it be barely mention in the Government ' s industrial strategy , which be a huge oversight . the combination of decision take by the Government since July 2024 be now push many business to the brink . this summer I visit 52 village across South Devon on my surgery tour — though I do not have a drink in every one of they . over and over again , I hear the same message : the local pub be absolutely vital . they be not just place to eat or drink but a third space where community can come together . they also offer a vital first step into the work world for young people , and those job be not just any job . they teach skill such as communication , teamwork , problem solve and manage money . those be real - world skill that stay with kid for life . I sell ice cream in the Edinburgh Lyceum theatre , and both my daughter earn their stripe in the local pub around Totnes , so I know how valuable these job be . with almost a million young people age 16 to 24 not currently in education , employment or training , we should be do everything we can to make sure that sector such as hospitality be open , thriving and hire . a couple of week ago I meet Mitch Tonks , the successful owner behind Rockfish , which have 11 restaurant in Devon and Dorset . he look I in the eye and tell I directly that the choice make by this Government in recent month be kill the industry . the late rise in national insurance alone have leave his business face extra cost equivalent to open an entirely new restaurant in one year . the low national insurance threshold particularly hit seasonal employer . at a time when the country need job and local community need to be revive , the Government should be encourage hospitality to grow and create job , rather than shrink and restrict hospitality with taxis . hospitality be not a luxury sector but a lifeline , especially in constituency such as South Devon , where every single village pub , seaside caf é , family - run restaurant or hotel be a pillar of the local economy . I would briefly like to commend the team at the Bull Inn in Totnes , who this week launch the first ever level 3 award in regenerative and sustainable hospitality . the course will lead to bar and restaurant across the UK learn how to minimise their environmental impact , promote social responsibility , support regenerative farming practice and build long - term business resilience through regenerative practice . it be a truly inspirational new course for the hospitality sector . last week I be delighted to attend the reopening of what be once my local pub when I first move to Monmouthshire 25 year ago . the Star on the Hill in Llanfihangel Tor y Mynydd be one of 6 , 000 UK pub and bar that close during the 15 year of Tory neglect , but it have be revive by the brilliant local community and its new landlord , who have work tirelessly to get it start again . other new hospitality business have open recently , include the Fuzion restaurant in Abergavenny and Rustica in Monmouth . Monmouthshire be the food capital of Wales . we have the Abergavenny food festival , which be once describe as the Glastonbury of food festival . member be welcome to visit on 20 and 21 September and see the incredible hospitality we have on offer . over 450 hospitality business , employ over 2 , 800 people , play a vital role in make Monmouthshire a fantastic place to live and visit — from the Black Bear Inn and the Boat Inn , to my new local , the Halfway . the Halfway be run by Rhi and Jason , who have also open an amazing shop so that people do not have to drive to the near shop , because we be a bit out in the middle of nowhere . it be a community interest company , and it be do fantastic stuff for our community and employ people from the community . I be relieved that the Government be determined to deliver the support that pub and hospitality need to survive and begin to thrive once again . labour back hospitality and , unlike the Conservatives , it be match that message with meaningful action . this Labour Government have cut tax on pint and be get rid of the red tape that stop customer be able to take their after - work pint on to the pavement . the Welsh Labour Government will help my constituent in Monmouthshire by provide a 40 % discount on non - domestic rate for business in retail , leisure and hospitality for the sixth year in a row . this be the life support that our pub need , and I know that the Government will continue to do the right thing by engage with the sector about the challenge it be navigate and the help that it need . I look forward to spending as much time as this job will allow in the various pub and caf é s I have mention in Monmouthshire . I can now be hopeful that after over a decade of neglect , we can start to see hospitality business go from strength to strength . there be over 300 hospitality business in South West Devon , and even though that may not be the high number in a single constituency , consider the area of countryside in mine , where the only resident be cattle and sheep , it be a hefty number . there be 316 venue , include the Woolwell Centre , the who ' d have think it , the Black Cat Surf Club and the Plympton Conservative Club , the Exchange in Ivybridge , Nelli ' s in Yealmpton , School House at Mothecombe , the Odd Wheel in Wembury and Kingfisher Fish and Chips . the list go on . hospitality in South West Devon mean more than 2 , 000 job , a turnover of £ 91 . 7 million and an economic value to the local economy of £ 50 million . hospitality play a crucial role in our local community tourism offer — in our area , there be everything from coast to moor to explore . neighbouring constituency have even more job and economic value at risk under this Labour Government . that be why a group of local business have take matter into their own hand and form a campaign to save hospitality across Plymouth and South West Devon . I be proud to support it . the impact of increase employer national insurance contribution ; of halve business rate relief ; of bring forward employment right that nobble employer and add undue cost and pressure ; and of the minimum wage increase , even for the young employee , be hit so hard that many business fear for the future . the sector be reel . business be simply not employ new staff , and they be less inclined to employ young people and student . my hon . friend be make an excellent speech about the importance of these business to her constituency . do she agree that those business be often the very heart of local community , and that if resident lose they , they lose a vital part of their community ? I will come on to that exact point in my remain few minute , but absolutely , they be a crucial part of our community . why do that all matter ? as hospitality business across the country bring financial and social value to our community , they be critical to a thriving tourism sector . they be also a key part of our everyday life , whether it be have the treat of an ice cream on the beach during a summer holiday , use a local memory caf é with a love one , chat over a pint to ease loneliness , or bring family together for a meal that someone else have cook , in order to mark a special occasion . however , the increase business cost impose by this Labour Government mean that there be increase cost to the consumer who want to make the most of those opportunity . it mean that few people go out ; that be what I be hear from constituent . then those business face closure , which impact the local economy . it be a vicious cycle and , sadly , the Labour party seem completely oblivious to it . the equation be simple , and I be sadden and disappoint to see the Labour party stick its head in the sand , completely determined to ignore the issue . if we conservative member do not speak up , there will not be a hospitality sector in this country . as I have say , the Labour party keep boast about economic growth in hospitality , but I be not sure that we will see that in my constituency , because all the hospitality business feel massively under threat . I be immensely proud of the hospitality sector in my constituency of Calder Valley . our community have always be amazing , but it be recently make famous by the tv show " Happy Valley " . I always say to the public , " come to our town . they have the same amazing scenery , but far few murder . " hospitality be where neighbour meet , where milestone be celebrate and where people get to find out what be great about town and community . my constituency be a string of community , from Brighouse to Todmorden , with a string of high street . between 2010 and 2018 , our authority of Calderdale lose 50 — nearly a quarter — of its pub . they be among the more than 10 , 000 closure nationwide under the coalition and Tory Governments — and that be before the pandemic . although I welcome the sudden interest in the hospitality sector from the Conservatives , theirs be a new concern . hospitality be vital to the future of our high street . as we see high street move away from retail because of the internet , we see people sell experience and connection . an american friend recently ask about the difference between a pub and a bar . draw on my experience of both , I say that a bar be just somewhere someone go to drink , but a pub be a community living room . Change have to include challenge some of the tie pub rule that mean that a pub in my constituency see the amount it have to pay more than double by the pub company Stonegate , from £ 800 to £ 1 , 700 a week . that be because just one week after the six - month probationary period end , the company invoke a clause to break the tie . that be the kind of irresponsible , rapacious practice that be allow to thrive under the last government , and I urge Ministers to look at that . conservative Members want to focus on one specific tax , not on the whole strategy for the high street , and it be that lack of holistic thinking that have land we in this mess : too many tactic , not enough strategy . that be why I welcome this Labour Government ' s plan , which have be welcome by the hospitality sector , to reduce business rate , tackle late payment , cut red tape and deliver a £ 1 . 6 billion package that will save the average pub £ 3 , 300 next year . that support will give the venue some space to breathe . it will help to keep Calder Valley ' s town buzz and help our hospitality to thrive , and when our hospitality thrive , our community thrive . hospitality be under a huge strain . pub particularly be really struggle across the country , and indeed in my constituency of Keighley and Ilkley . nationally , pub closure be estimate to be run at one establishment a day , thank to this Labour Government ' s hike in employer ' national insurance , the hike in the minimum wage and the loom threat of this Labour Government ' s Employment Rights Bill . the number of closure be only climb , and these punitive measure be push our pub to the brink . that be couple with disposable income tightening for family , include family who may want to support our pub . in the Bradford district , council tax have be raise by 10 % . that impact all my constituent who want to spend money at their pub but can not because they have to tighten their belt . the Dickie Bird in Long Lee and many other pub be come under a huge amount of strain as their overhead increase ; they be , dare I say it , look at closure . I meet the owner of the Dickie Bird recently , and they express to I how much financial strain this Labour Government ' s policy have put on they ; that have ultimately lead to they have to make the decision to close . my understanding be that the Airedale NHS foundation trust cover the hon . member ' s constituency . the waiting list there have fall from 14 , 779 to 13 , 846 , there be 32 , 312 additional urgent dental appointment , and £ 3 . 3 million be go to the hospital to support building and other safety work . do he welcome that investment , which be partly fund by the national insurance contribution increase ? as all of we know , I have be campaign tirelessly to secure the funding to rebuild Airedale hospital , and it be finally announce in 2023 , but it be very disappointing to many of my constituent when the completion date for the rebuild be push back by this Labour Government from 2030 to 2035 . my constituent and other from surround constituency will now have to wait much long for the rebuild to be complete because of the decision make by this Labour Government . the Airedale Heifer , the Busfeild Arms , the Brown cow and the Black Hat be all fantastic pub in my constituency , and I encourage everyone to go along and buy a pint of Timothy Taylor ' s — one of the fine brewery in this country . a pint of Landlord will go down very well . the Bridgehouse brewery in Keighley also produce fantastic ale . all these establishment want to be support , but they be express to I the challenge of their increase overhead , result from this Labour Government , and particularly from the employer ' national insurance increase . the Turkey Inn in Goose Eye be also experience the same challenge . these punitive measure be directly impact community , as I have say . they hurt young people who want to start out in the workplace . the Government have rightly make a great deal of the importance of get young people into work , but the Employment Rights Bill , the increase in employer ' national insurance and the hike in the minimum wage be make it much more difficult for the hospitality sector to recruit young people and provide opportunity for they to thrive , get work experience and earn an income . that be impact many constituency , not least those across the Keighley and Ilkley area , which I represent . as the third - large employer in Britain , hospitality support 3 . 5 million job and be the beat heart of our high street and community , yet this vital sector have be let down by a decade of conservative neglect ; over 10 , 000 pub close between 2010 and 2024 . this motion continue to let down business and worker , and as my hon . friend the Members for Falkirk ( Euan Stainbank ) , and for Tipton and Wednesbury ( Antonia Bance ) , eloquently point out , our worker be our hospitality sector — worker like my cousin James , a fantastic head chef in my city . he have be a skilled professional for over two decade . he deserve the same worker ’ right and protection from the Low Pay Commission as any office worker . this Labour Government be turn the tide . we be back hospitality with our new hospitality and night - time economy zone , cut red tape , and support al fresco dining to boost footfall . we be deliver permanently low business rate for hospitality in 2026 and develop our strategy for small and medium - sized enterprise . through our safe street mission , we be reduce crime and keep our worker safe , but we must also recognise the unique challenge face seasonal hospitality business , particularly in coastal community . these area have remarkable boom during the summer month , but face economic hardship through the winter . this feast - or - famine cycle make it difficult for business to budget . that be where the english devolution Bill be crucial . by empower mayoral combine authority with great control over growth and resource , we can develop target support for seasonal economy — a great example of this Government work together to protect worker . local leader understand their community ' rhythm . they know when business need support , and understand the impact , both positive and negative , on the local economy and our public service . the hospitality sector — pub , restaurant , hotel and leisure facility , as well as the often forget and ignore security staff who keep we safe in those venue — be vital . I want to praise all the fantastic worker and business in Portsmouth who go above and beyond in our city . there be so many great place to spend leisure time . they provide employment and contribute brilliantly to our community . they include the Caf é on the Green and the Cross Keys — the final pub leave — in Paulsgrove ; Bar Aroma , the Heath ' s tearoom and caf é , set up by two brilliant young sister , and the Drayton Tavern in Drayton and Farlington ; the Mardin caf é and the Star & Garter in Copnor ; the Casemates and Hilsea Lines caf é s in Hilsea ; Makemake brewery and Beeny ' s in Baffins ; the Palace caf é , the Highbury caf é and the Portsbridge pub in Cosham ; and the Mother Shipton and the North End caf é in Stamshaw and North end , to name only a few . I thank all of they , and hope that they continue to flourish under our Labour Government . hospitality have be batter by a perfect storm of punish taxation , regulation and soar operational cost , which have leave pub and restaurant fight for survival . in recent month , I have visit 36 of the 55 pub in my constituency and host a hospitality roundtable . I will shortly be sit down again with the family chain , the Healy Group . everywhere I go , the story be the same : rise cost , thinning margin and landlord ask , " how much long can we keep the light on ? " in this darkness , I can bring a little ray of delight and hope to my constituent . during the summer recess , I continue my constituency pub tour , part of my good pub campaign . I be delighted to announce to the House that the Crown at Arford have win that accolade in the Farnham and Bordon constituency . you may be aware , Madam Deputy Speaker , that Fleetwood Mac ' s " down at the Crown " be inspire by this pub , so if the Chancellor ever find herself lose in East Hampshire , she might fancy a visit — though judge from Labour ' s economic stewardship , she would probably relate more to one call " close down at the Crown " . I joke , but there be nothing amusing about the reality . since May , four pub in my constituency have be drive out by Labour ' s relentless war on small business , include the Wheatsheaf Inn at Grayswood , which have close indefinitely . the sector be collapse , despite what Government member say . six pub be close every single week . that be because , from April this year , relief collapse to 40 % , halve their protection while double their pain . the Budget hike national insurance , increase the minimum wage and add £ 3 billion to their bill . the Chancellor ' s 1p off a draught pint gesture be not just laughable but insulting . Jay at the six Bells tell I bluntly that on a £ 5 . 50 pint , pub make about 8p . that be the future that Labour be offer . the Bluebell in Dockenfield , a family business run by Lucy and Robin Catchpole , be fight tooth and nail to thrive . pub be the heart of our town and village , and Labour be rip out that heart . I do not want to rain on the hon . Gentleman ' s pub parade , but my constituency have a proud history when it come to pub , as for 60 year it be the only place in the country where the pub be nationalise — although I be not call on the Minister to reintroduce nationalisation of pub . do the hon . Gentleman agree that one thing that would help our pub would be to extend the pub code by introduce a guest beer agreement — like the one in Scotland — so that we get more independent product , and more people , into our pub ? that sound like an interesting idea . I will support anything that will get the pub industry thrive , but to be frank , Labour be destroy the opportunity for pub to thrive , and I be afraid a guest ale will go no way towards solve that problem . I be conscious of time , Madam Deputy Speaker , so I will touch briefly on the fact that it be not just labour in Westminster that do not understand the hospitality industry . the Liberal Democrats in Waverley be show the same wilful blindness . Farnham be undergo major infrastructure work , and its hospitality and retail business be struggle . I urge the council to act . it have the power to provide business rate relief , but it have do nothing . Borelli ' s Wine Bar and Grill , for example , have operate since 1987 , yet the Lib Dems sit on their hand , prove that they share labour ' s contempt for small business . hospitality be be tax , squeeze and regulate into oblivion . if Labour carry on like this , the last order bell will ring not just for our pub , but for the very character of british life itself . it be a great moment when my daughter pull a pint for I as part of her duty as a barmaid in her first job as she work her way through university . although that job put vital cash in her pocket , it also give her people skill and proof on her cv that she be reliable and trustworthy with cash valuable stock . her work today be far remove from that bar , but the foundation of her career be lay there . yet across Dumfries and Galloway , hospitality business tell I that they be pause give youngster like my daughter that all - important first job . the increase in employer ' s national insurance contribution to 15 % , and the lowering to £ 5 , 000 of the secondary threshold , be labour ' s dread £ 900 - a - head black spot curse on bright youngster ready for the world of work . in Scotland , matter be make bad by the anti - business SNP , which be not pass on money intend for business rate relief , and whose multiple unit pricing alcohol regime make Scotch whisky more expensive in the land of its birth than in many other place . shroud in pious health messaging , MUP have have little discernible effect on problem drinking and seem more like the SNP fun police give free rein . spirit price be high ; business spirit be low . no doubt the wealth - finder general , the new Chief Secretary to the Prime Minister — tough on growth , tough on the cause of growth — will seek new way to squeeze hospitality . Knowledge be know that the tomato be technically a fruit ; wisdom be be wise enough not to put a tomato in the fruit salad . the Pensions Minister be , improbably , hold the pen on the nightmare - before - Christmas Budget . he have a lot of knowledge about taxis , but have he the wisdom not to deploy they in the growth basket ? hospitality be a canary in the economic coalmine . the fact that pub be close and restaurant open only a couple of day a week at good be a leitmotif for this anti - business Government . they think that business be a dripping roast to be devour to fund ruinous policy such as the Chagos surrender deal . terrifyingly , hospitality be sup in the last chance saloon , but surely it be last order for this maladroit Labour Government ? haven ' t they get three home to go to ? hospitality be more than an industry ; it be a way of life . my first job be in hospitality — potato rumble in the basement of the Crown in Cowden , with my brother Spencer potwashe , and learn the bar at the King Henry VIII in Hever , where my sister Chloe work — and for 14 year I run a hospitality business in my constituency with my husband Paul . all my child , like so many other , have work in hospitality . it be an amazing learning ground for life and deeply rewarding . through our business , we support family through the happy and sad day of their life . we befriend the lonely , offer a daily catch - up for regular and become a hub for community group and local business . but it be a tough life , with unsociable hour , low pay and insecure condition the norm . in the nine month since the Budget , more than 80 , 000 people in the industry have lose their job , include my son Isaac . I first get involve in local politic because of the crippling cost of business rate . I continue to campaign on that . I hear the argument that the Conservatives have no plan to continue the relief , and that interim measure be well than nothing — but that be cold comfort to business face massive cost increase , uncertain revaluation and no assurance about what happen next April . it be not just the rate , but the whole regime . Hall & Woodhouse , the brewery that run so many brilliant pub in Dorset , explain that revaluation after refit directly disincentivise investment . the Minister will say that he can not pre - empt the Budget , but I want he to hear loud and clear that some hospitality business will not make it until April . for those that do , without permanently low cost , the writing be on the wall . on national insurance , I have to take issue with the claim that small business be not bad off . I have run a hospitality business , and with the front and back of house 12 hour a day , seven day a week , more than five full - time member of staff be need . my constituent Craig from Bear in Wimborne explain that national insurance cost for part - time worker on the minimum wage have increase 74 . 5 % . those cost have to be pass on . as well as affect price , they be likely to lead to slow wage growth and job loss . the cost of go out impact heavily on gen Z . as a mum of four of they , I welcome the reduce drinking culture and healthy lifestyle , but the reality be that they be preloade at home to reduce the cost of a night out . that be no criticism of the night - time economy — its cost have increase with the responsibility of Martyn ' s law — but we must change our tax regime to reflect how our society be change . hospitality be not just about food and drink ; it be about people , community and the very identity of the United Kingdom . let ' s not just save hospitality ; let ' s celebrate it . Diolch , Madam Dirprwy Lefarydd . I declare an interest as the chair of the all - party parliamentary group for hospitality , event , major food and drink business in Wales . the hospitality sector in Wales have enormous economic value . it contribute £ 4 billion to the Welsh economy and employ more than 165 , 000 people . it also have immense social value , create strong community and provide opportunity for local people , often young people whose first job be in hospitality . however , the tax change introduce by this Government have place huge pressure on the sector . this summer , a report by Family Business UK show that on Ynys M ô n change to business property relief and agricultural property relief could result in a more than £ 10 million reduction in gross value add , as well as the loss of 167 local full - time equivalent job . that pattern be see across Wales . the report also find that Wales will see some of the steep forecast decline in investment , turnover and employment due to the change to BPR and APR . beyond the statistic be the real impact on family - run business , such as Kingsbridge caravan park in Beaumaris , which have be family - own for 26 year . those run it say that the increase to employer national insurance have already force they to reconsider employ warden next year and have affect their ability to reinvest in the caravan park . analysis by ukhospitality Cymru show that of the 164 , 641 job loss in the UK since the Budget last October , some 89 , 000 have be in hospitality . about 2 , 600 of those be in Wales — roughly equivalent to the number of job lose at Port Talbot due to the closure of the blast furnace , but spread across our community throughout Wales . the sector be cry out for the Government to recognise the urgent situation and to acknowledge that many business be barely treading water , unable to invest or grow . hospitality be an important source of skill and growth for Ynys M ô n and Wales , yet this Government be put the brake on that growth through short - sighted decision . thousand of job have already be lose and future investment have be cut . to prevent a bad situation from get bad , the Government must rethink their damaging increase to employer ' s national insurance contribution and the upcoming change to business property relief , and give the Welsh hospitality sector the breathing room it need to flourish . hospitality be at the heart of our local community . it be the good of British : the pub we visit for a pint or two , the restaurant where we go to celebrate a special occasion , or the bar that power our night - time economy . my constituency be home to some truly incredible hospitality business — if you have never be for a night out in Yarm , you have never live . we do not love pub just because we love pint . the great british pub bring community together . they tackle isolation , provide a safe environment where people can consume alcohol , support more than a million job and help many youngster get their first foot on the employment ladder . the good idea be usually the one we come up with in the pub . pub be place where community spirit be find and foster . if I have more time , I would tell hon . member about the innovative and generous support show to local charity by the Locomotion in Eaglescliffe and the Griffin in Thornaby . like several mp , I host my own pub award , recognise and celebrate the good of our local pub . this year ' s winner be Courtney and the incredible team at the Myton House Farm pub in Ingleby Barwick . I be look forward to celebrate more place in the come year , such as Luna Blu , a fantastic local tapas restaurant and bar in Yarm ; the Derry in Long Newton , where people can get a warm welcome , great grub and all the village gossip while enjoy one of the good beer garden around — if Carlsberg make beer garden , the Derry in Long Newton would be its aspiration — or the Masham in Hartburn , a must - visit eatery that arguably serve the good parmos on the planet . I would love to tell the House more about the incredible hospitality business in Stockton West , but time do not allow . my hon . friend be make an excellent speech and demonstrate why he be such a great champion for Teesside . do he agree that many business be not just face the prospect of closing , but of possibly lay off more and more job ? in my constituency , Mainstreet Trading , a fantastic award - win bookshop , deli and caf é , write to all its customer early this year to say that opening hour be go to be reduce because of labour ' s tax on job . be he experience the same in his constituency ? very much so ; I could not agree more . these be opportunity for young people to get a first foot on the ladder in the job market . between October 2023 and July 2024 , the number of hospitality business increase and the number of job in the sector increase by 22 , 000 . surprisingly , after Labour ' s Budget , in exactly the same time period , we have see 89 , 000 job loss — 89 , 000 people unable to provide for their family or live out their aspiration and dream . it be shameful , it be a disgrace , and people do not vote labour for that . speak to landlord in my part of the world , I be tell how real the fight be to save the great british pub . labour ' s job tax , its Employment Rights Bill and the slashing of small business rate relief have mean that 89 , 000 job have already be lose in the hospitality sector , and ukhospitality believe that the figure could be as many as 200 , 000 by the end of the financial year . labour ' s job tax mean it cost £ 900 more to employ the average employee , mean some hospitality business be unable to provide opportunity for those youngster to get their first job . it be part of the reason 14 % more people in this country be unemployed and leave unable to support their family or fulfil their dream and ambition — indicate dissent . the hon . member for Tipton and Wednesbury ( Antonia Bance ) should not shake her head — that be true . it be a fact . in the last Parliament , I campaign for the 75 % discount on business rate for leisure , hospitality and retail business . it be game change for many , but with the stroke of a pen , the Chancellor stand at the Dispatch Box and end that lifeline throw to many employer . with the average pub have see its business rate increase from £ 3 , 938 to £ 9 , 451 , and the average restaurant from £ 5 , 051 to a whopping £ 12 , 122 , the Government be tax the sector to death . two hospitality business be close every day and it be think that more than — order . I call Christine Jardine . I come to Parliament this week fresh from the Edinburgh festival — on which note I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . hon . member will be pleased to hear that I be there not as a performer , but because every year I be tempt across the border into neighbouring constituency by the absolute feast of music , theatre , dance , literature and comedy that be the Edinburgh festival . every year it contribute £ 400 million to the city ' s economy , and it be host and support by a hospitality industry that , in my constituency alone , be value at £ 200 million and support 6 , 500 job . that be the big picture , but there be a much small and individual picture about the business who come to I every week with complaint . I have to say to Conservative Members that this issue do not miraculously start in July last year ; it have be go on for the past decade and since the Conservative Government destroy the economy on a whim a couple of year ago . these business be suffer and under threat . will the hon . Lady give way ? no , actually — I think the hon . Member have say enough today . those business be suffer and they have be for year . hon . member know how important they be not just to my constituency , to Edinburgh or to Scotland , but to the United Kingdom , because of the job that they create and the people they employ . that little picture be about family who be dependent on those business and who tell I that they be unhappy with the national insurance change . tourism tax ! those family also tell I that big business , like Edinburgh zoo and fantastic tourist business , which the national insurance change have add — tourism tax ! the hon . Gentleman be begin to sound a bit like a parrot . will the hon . Lady give way ? no , I will not give way . we hear the hon . Gentleman . I will repeat the phrase for he again : tourism tax . yes , we know that Edinburgh be tax tourist , but it be do that to support its hospitality business , which have be under threat for a decade . we need to look at the burden that our business be carry : the national insurance burden ; vat , which could be reduce ; and the business rate in many place . I appeal to Ministers to listen to the constituent we have hear from today — to listen to my constituent . they should listen to the fact that if those business fail , our economy will not have the growth on which this Government and every Government depend so much for our future . each of those small business make up an important part of that big picture : the hundred of million of pound — the billion — that hospitality bring to this country . may I first thank Alex Leitch from my office for help I to research what be go to be a long speech ? I will use just little bit of it , give the limited time that I have in which to speak . I spend week in my constituency over the summer recess , as other colleague do in theirs . I spend one week volunteer with small business and another visit pub in my constituency . I hear at first hand from many owner and employee about the dire situation they face , not just because of labour ' s increase in national insurance contribution , but because of its crippling Employment Rights Bill . as someone with a small business background , I be appal that these policy have be cloak as favourable to the work person . I have always be in favour of support hospitality , which be the cornerstone of our community . in my constituency alone , the hospitality sector add more than £ 76 . 6 million to our economy , and the hospitality sector in general be grow at almost double the rate of the UK economy . the hospitality industry be one of the highest - tax sector in the UK economy , and I be very disappointed that the Government have continue to hammer our service industry with NIC increase and minimum wage increase , all while boost the salary of people like train driver , who be already on £ 65 , 000 . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? there be not enough time . other have already speak about the retail , hospitality and leisure relief scheme in 2023 , so I will not dwell on that . let I just say that the hospitality business I speak to remain disappointed that the 75 % discount apply previously have not be adhere to . small independent business like the Kitchen Croxley in my constituency have warn I of the job loss that will become inevitable just to keep their door open on account of labour ' s policy change . if we continue down this path , we will only see high level of inflation and unemployment and increase reliance on our universal credit programme . I have no doubt that , despite put an enormous additional £ 40 billion burden on british taxpayer — take the tax burden to its high ever level — the apparent lack of foresight will only lead to more dismay in the future . other member have speak about the number of pub that have close , as well as the job loss in the hospitality sector . however , one point I have previously mention and I think be relevant to this debate be the lack of business experience among the Cabinet . have run a small business and understand the challenge associate with that would , I hope , lead to a well policy position than we be currently see . I look forward to far u - turn from this government , because where they be do the right thing , Conservative Members will support they . there be a long list of thing they could be do well , and I hope that when the Minister respond , he will give at least a glimmer of hope to the small business that be struggle . first — strangely for this debate — I would like to directly address part of the motion that be before we this afternoon . I be concerned that the harassment of people in the hospitality sector would be make bad under part of the motion . however , I strongly support the motion as a whole . as somebody who be bring up in a guest house in Torquay , you could say that the hospitality industry be in my blood . in my mind , Torbay be the premier resort in the United Kingdom ; sadly , it be also the most deprived constituency that rejoice in have a Liberal Democrat MP , so there be some wicked challenge there as well . my constituency have an income of £ 371 million from the hospitality sector . that be £ 1 million more than the national constituency average , with 1 , 000 business across the constituency rejoice in provide hospitality . I warn last November that the national insurance hike would rip the heart out of our hospitality industry in the west of England and , sadly , I have be prove right . the Office for National Statistics have highlight that there be 84 , 000 few job in this sector than there be , and there be a quarter few vacancy in the sector this summer in Devon and Cornwall . as colleague have already highlight , those be often entry - level job — opportunity for student to get some extra money in the summer break to help they through their time at university — so this be extremely important . there have be a lethal cocktail of the national insurance hike ; the cost of living crisis , which have impact not only the industry but the punter who have less discretionary spend ; and the failure to properly reform business rate , which be essential . one sector of our tourist industry that have be particularly hit be our zoo and aquarium . they have also suffer from the bum Brexit deal , which have leave they with some real challenge in be able to replenish their animal from other zoo across Europe and elsewhere in the world . as such , I ask the Minister to convene a summit for zoo and aquarium up and down the country to assist they with the real economic challenge that many be experience in the challenging world that we in the United Kingdom face . order . the wind - up will start at 6 . 40 pm prompt . the hospitality industry in Eastleigh contribute £ 113 million every year , generate £ 56 million in economic value , employ 1 , 805 people and sustain 84 pub , caf é s , restaurant and hotel . my constituent Lorraine , the landlady of the Master Builder pub in West end , see her wage bill rise by £ 1 , 500 compare with the same month last year despite have no extra staff . she now work 70 hour a week , earn the equivalent of £ 5 an hour , and in the past two year she have have just five day off . Jane be the manager of the Holiday Inn in Eastleigh , a popular base for those wish to watch cricket at the Utilita Bowl and for family want to explore Peppa Pig World at Paultons Park nearby . she tell I that they have be unable to fill vacancy because of the increase payroll burden from national insurance hike . David , the owner of Steam Town Brew Co , tell I that for a part - time member of staff do just 10 hour a week , cost have rise by more than 9 % year on year . for small brewery such as his , these increase make it hard to keep staff on , to recruit and to invest in local job . do the Minister acknowledge that the change to employer national insurance contribution act as a disincentive for small , labour - intensive business — order . I call the shadow Minister . before I start , may I refer hon . member to my declaration in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests ? I have also take hospitality below the declarable amount from ukhospitality and the BBPA — I be sure I be not the only one . I thank all hon . member for their contribution from across the UK . we have hear some enthusiastic and supportive comment on the industry , but it be a pity that the policy be not so supportive . from the start I be leave wonder what planet some of those on the Government Benches be on . they be clearly not talk to the same hard - work and angry people work in the hospitality sector as those on the Opposition Benches be . if they have be , I do not believe for one minute they would have be so enthusiastically supportive of decision and policy that be do such immense damage to an industry that support 3 . 5 million job in the UK . hospitality be one of the most important economic sector and be our third big employer . it be a british success story . while we be in power between 2010 and 2024 , we oversee the creation of 4 million job — that be 800 job a day — and nearly 20 % of all those new job create be in the hospitality sector . however , since Labour ' s disastrous Budget , nearly half of all job lose have be in hospitality . where conservative create , labour destroy . the irony of this Government be that they say they be prioritise growth , yet they be implement policy that do the opposite . the job loss in hospitality be a direct result of the unexpected and unnecessary employer national insurance increase that have add £ 1 billion to the cost of hire people in this sector . the Government also whack up business rate on hospitality , cost the sector a further half a billion pound . as a result of labour ' s decision , a generation of young people will miss out on their first job opportunity in hospitality — a sector that be particularly enthusiastic about employ young people . of the 164 , 000 job loss in the UK since last year ' s Budget , almost 89 , 000 have be lose in hospitality , and more be expect . accord to ukhospitality , 79 % of hospitality business have have to raise price , and more than half have cut staff . that be before the Deputy Prime Minister ' s further attack on business with her unemployment Bill , burden UK business with more rule and regulation and cost business another £ 5 billion , accord to the Government ' s own estimate . as I say last year , the Chancellor ' s Budget will go down in history as the most anti - business Budget that this country have ever have . her legacy will be as the destroyer of job . we will see how much far she go in this year ' s Budget . this Government be well on the way to secure the unenviable record of every Labour Government since the second world war of leave office with unemployment high than when they start . it be the private sector , business and especially the hospitality sector that be pay the price for Labour ' s mistake and poor judgment . will the shadow Minister give way ? I will not because of time , I be afraid . I spend a good chunk of the summer travel around the country , meet key player in the tourism , hospitality , heritage and leisure sector . everyone be complain about how hard they have be hit by this Government ' s policy , and the sector be angry — so angry , in fact , that they have give the Prime Minister , the Deputy Prime Minister and the Chancellor a middle name , and a good Anglo - saxon one at that . they tell I about job loss , inability to invest , and profit margin be erode or disappear all together . seaside amusement arcade , for example , be close their door early , or on certain day , or all together , because it be no long profitable to stay open . the focus today be on hospitality , but it be clear that the wide tourism , hospitality and leisure sector be all be hit . nearly every sector oversee by the Department for Culture , Media and Sport have be hit by Labour policy , and this be a big deal . why do people holiday in the UK , or come here from overseas to visit ? it be because of our heritage site , our museum , our art , our culture , our theatre , our festival and our sporting event . about a million people visit the UK every year just to come and watch football game . all these sector be be hit , and the 40 million - plus overseas visitor who come to the UK each year spend £ 33 billion in our pub , bar , restaurant , hotel and so on . all that be at risk . tourism be a highly competitive global industry , but this Government ' s decision be undermine our competitiveness in respect of both domestic and inbound visitor . we should always remember that inbound travel spend be all - important export revenue . let I respond to some of the comment make during the debate . the Minister for Creative Industries , Arts and Tourism say that this Government have make the " difficult " decision to increase taxis . what a load of nonsense ! the easy — the lazy — thing for any Government to do be dip into other people ' s pocket and spend money on their behalf . the difficult decision be to be restrain about spending and to reduce taxis , which be what we be do before the election . the hon . member for Ealing Southall ( Deirdre Costigan ) and for Tipton and Wednesbury ( Antonia Bance ) , among other , ask why we be not support the Deputy Prime Minister ' s unemployment Bill . the answer be simple : it will cause more unemployment . the hon . member for Welwyn Hatfield ( Andrew Lewin ) ask why we be attack the industry and talk it down . we be do no such thing : we be talk this government down and talk this Government ' s policy down . my hon . friend the Member for Kingswinford and South Staffordshire ( Mike Wood ) point out that when we be in government , we rightly support this sector to the tune of about £ 25 billion during the pandemic , with measure such as the furlough scheme , the cutting of vat on tourism , the culture recovery fund and the sport survival fund . we be desperate to get the sector open as soon and as safely as possible while the then opposition be say that we should keep thing close for long , so we will take no lecture from they on that . my right hon . friend the Member for East Hampshire ( Damian Hinds ) rightly draw attention to the disgraceful fact that the hospitality sector be almost completely absent from the Government ' s industrial strategy despite its importance . my hon . friend the Member for Mid Leicestershire ( Mr Bedford ) speak of the need to talk to industry and then talk to the Treasury , credibly and confidently , with statistic and information . I do not believe that the dcms be do that . it do not appear that it carry any weight with the Treasury , as evidence by the policy that be attack all these sector . my hon . friend the Member for Stockton West ( Matt Vickers ) invite we all for a pint . I will take he up on that offer ; the first round be on he . I believe that the hon . member for Tewkesbury ( Cameron Thomas ) , my constituency neighbour , do the same . several Members , especially Government Members , ask where the money would come from if we do not increase national insurance contribution . the answer be simple . we would not have spend £ 10 billion on inflation - bust pay rise for union mate . we would not have spend £ 8 billion on the National Wealth Fund , £ 7 billion on GB Energy — which do not produce any energy — or £ 35 billion on the Chagos surrender Bill . there be the answer . my hon . friend the Member for Bromley and Biggin Hill ( Peter Fortune ) highlight the additional concern of this sector give the impending hit to inheritance tax , business property relief and agricultural property relief , which be especially worry for rural and farming community . that point be also make by my hon . friend the Members for South West Devon ( Rebecca Smith ) and for Chester South and Eddisbury ( Aphra Brandreth ) . it be clear from its policy , and from today ' s debate , that Labour simply do not get business . perhaps that should not be surprising , give how few member of the Cabinet have actually start or run a business , or even work for or spend any significant time in the private sector . few Labour Members have any understanding of , or appreciation for , the hard work and effort put in by entrepreneur , risk - taker and owner of business , especially small business , who work so hard to employ other and generate taxis . labour certainly know how to spend other people ' s money ; it just have no idea how that money be generate in the first place . on the conservative Benches , we have a party that be unapologetically pro - business , because the conservative know that we can have good public service only if we have a dynamic private sector generate the taxis to pay for they . support the private sector and enable it to succeed be good for public service , too . the hospitality and tourism sector know that they have a friend in the conservative party . we appreciate they , and we want they to succeed . we stand by they during the pandemic , we appreciate and applaud their growth when we be in power , and we will be there again to work with they when this Government collapse and we pick up the piece once more . we will back business . we will revive the economy and bring opportunity and prosperity back to this country through pro - enterprise policy base on core conservative principle : low taxis , small government , light regulation , personal responsibility , fiscal responsibility and live within our mean — principle that my party , and only my party , understand and abide by . the british people deserve so much well than this shambolic Labour Government , and we will not rest until they get it . only yesterday I sit down with some of Britain ' s great publican — award - win Tommy Higgs and Mike Dove of the Three Horseshoes , Emma Gibbon from the Plough in Prestbury , Justine Lorriman of the famous Royal Dyche in Burnley , Matt Todd of the Wonston Arms , and the excellent Steve Alton of the British Institute of Innkeeping — to go through the detail of the challenge they be face , so I welcome the chance to underline the Government ' s recognition of the importance of hospitality business in all our community to the economic , cultural and social life of our country . in this debate we have hear many other example of great hospitality business , notably in the excellent speech of my hon . friend the Members for read West and Mid Berkshire ( Olivia Bailey ) , for Bournemouth East ( Tom Hayes ) , for Welwyn Hatfield ( Andrew Lewin ) , for Ealing Southall ( Deirdre Costigan ) , for Gedling ( Michael Payne ) , for Leeds North West ( Katie White ) , for Hexham ( Joe Morris ) , for Falkirk ( Euan Stainbank ) , for Cumbernauld and Kirkintilloch ( Katrina Murray ) , for Tipton and Wednesbury ( Antonia Bance ) , for Stirling and Strathallan ( Chris Kane ) , for Monmouthshire ( Catherine Fookes ) , for Calder Valley ( Josh Fenton - Glynn ) and for Portsmouth North ( Amanda Martin ) . hospitality be a sector that contribute well over £ 50 billion to our economy and employ million of people across the UK . it be particularly important for young people , who need to gain essential skill and experience to pursue successful life . it be also often an entry point for those who want a second chance in life , and I pay tribute to Greene King for work with 65 prison across the UK to provide inmate with hospitality training . it aim to hire 400 prison leaver by the end of this year . what all the contribution to this debate underline once again be that hospitality be truly the backbone of our high street and the lifeblood of our community . however , pub , caf é s , restaurant and hotel feel the full force of the headwind unleash by the economic incompetence of the conservative party . we have 14 year of Britain ' s hospitality entrepreneur be let down . the Conservatives unleash a cost of living crisis , and interest rate rise 14 time . we have double - digit inflation , with food price drive higher by the disastrous Brexit deal that they sign . the conservative party say that it be against red tape but make it ever hard for hospitality business to change and innovate . accord to the british Beer and Pub Association , the last government ' s watch result in 10 , 000 few pub . when both shadow Ministers hold key role in government , a total of 185 , 000 hospitality business close their door for good between 2017 and when they leave office . we be turn the page on that grim period with an industrial strategy to boost the whole economy by drive business investment , productivity and innovation across the economy . business across all sector have welcome this approach . frankly , they welcome the marked departure from the permanent chopping and change of policy that mark the 14 year when the Conservatives be in power . we have austerity , the disastrous trade deal with Europe , and then the revolving door of Prime Ministers and Chancellors . we be do thing differently by set out comprehensive , research - back and business - inform strategy to help business plan not just for the next 10 month , but for the next 10 year and beyond . focus on our core industrial strategy sector will benefit the rest of the economy , too — for example , the creative industry be a key sector that will help drive benefit and opportunity for the hospitality sector . it be a little rich for the Opposition to talk about omission from the industrial strategy , when they give up on have any kind of industrial strategy in their final year in office . all our work be complement by our small business strategy : to back entrepreneur , to invest in the high street , to improve access to finance , to open up overseas and domestic market , and to build business capability . inspire by the US ' s Small Business Administration , we have launch our Business Growth Service , which will be the go - to place to get the advice and information that business and entrepreneur need . we be determined to tackle the scandal of late payment , which the conservative party never do . on business rate , let we remember what the Conservatives promise six year ago . in their 2019 manifesto , they say they would begin a fundamental review of the business rate system , but they never do . they be due to reduce business rate relief to zero from April this year . we stop that — we have keep the relief — and we will deliver on our manifesto commitment to create a fairer business rate system that protect the high street , support investment and drive growth . we will deliver permanently low multiplier for retail , hospitality and leisure business , and I certainly agree with my hon . friend the Member for Cumbernauld and Kirkintilloch that it be staggering that the Scottish Government will not commit to do the same . the Chancellor of the Exchequer have to take difficult decision in the Budget last year to fix the £ 22 billion black hole in the public finance . the decision she take be vital to help build the long - term stability that be essential for investment , create job and , crucially , put more money in people ' s pocket . while I understand the sector ' s concern about the increase in national insurance contribution , we be protect the small business by increase the employment allowance to £ 10 , 500 . some 1 million employer , of which thousand be hospitality business , will pay no nic at all , and more than half of employer will see no difference or will gain from this package . we be committed to reduce regulatory burden to bring down the cost of food , which be why we negotiate a sanitary and phytosanitary deal with the European Union . it be also why we launch the licensing taskforce , with proposal to rebalance the licensing system to well support business growth , cultural vibrancy and public safety . we will bring forward further work in that space shortly . we have also introduce the hospitality support scheme to co - fund project in line with Hospitality Sector Council priority , include by support initiative such as Pub be the Hub to encourage local investment , particularly in rural community . indeed , the conservative party axe all funding to support pub , include support for Pub be the Hub . successful pub , caf é s and restaurant depend on people have the money in their pocket to go out and enjoy what be the good hospitality business in the world . wage grow fast in the first 10 month of this Government than they do in the first 10 year of the Conservatives ' time in office . disposable income be set to rise during this Parliament at twice the rate they do during the last Parliament . business investment be up , almost 400 , 000 job be create in our first year in office , we have have five interest rate cut and business confidence be rise . the Conservatives give up on pub ; they give up on entrepreneur ; they give up on caf é s , restaurant and hotel ; they give up on small business ; and they give up on high street . they never have a strategy for growth , they certainly do not have a strategy to back hospitality , and they certainly have not offer any new idea today . we do have a strategy for growth , and we will continue to work with the hospitality industry to address the challenge it face . I urge the House to reject the motion . question put . Gideon Amos Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Aphra Brandreth Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Christopher Chope James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Alberto Costa Geoffrey Cox Adam Dance Steve Darling Gareth davy Mims davy Bobby Dean Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Luke Evans Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin Louie French Roger Gale Mark Garnier Andrew George John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Julia Lopez James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Brian Mathew Charlie Maynard Esther McVey Freddie Van Mierlo John Milne Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Kieran Mullan David Mundell Tessa Munt Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Al Pinkerton Shivani Raja Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Andrew Rosindell Roz Savage Jim Shannon Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Jamie Stone Mel Stride Graham Stuart Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young Harriet Cross Jerome Mayhew Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Fleur Anderson Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Bill Esterson Chris Evans Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Gill german Tracy Gilbert Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Ed Miliband Julie Minns Perran Moon Jessica Morden Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Melanie Onn Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Tristan Osborne Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Steve Race Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Steve Reed Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Jeevun Sandher Louise Jones Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Baggy Shanker Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Kate Dearden Christian Wakeford the House divide : Ayes 158 , Noes 334 . question accordingly negative . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . early today at Prime Minister ' s question in relation to the norwegian Government ' s £ 10 billion investment in the scottish defence sector , the Prime Minister state , " I be perplexed that the First Minister of Scotland have not welcome this deal . " the problem for the Prime Minister be that the First Minister do in fact welcome the order from the norwegian Government to scottish shipbuilding , mean that the Prime Minister ' s statement today be untrue . the First Minister say : " the announcement by the Norwegian Government of their intention to buy frigate from BAE be obviously a significant boost to employment and opportunity in the defence sector in Scotland . it ' s an indication of the step that have to be take to ensure that country be able to defend themselves . and I welcome the investment in Glasgow . " this be an open and shut case and a serious one where the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom be today engage in advance a completely false accusation against the First Minister of Scotland . I seek your advice , Madam Deputy Speaker , on how we might get the Prime Minister to come to the House to correct the record . I thank the hon . member for give I notice of his point of order . the content of Members ’ speech or response by Ministers be not matter for the Chair . however , the Treasury Bench will have hear the Member ' s point of order , and I be sure that if there be a need to correct the record , the Prime Minister will do so . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Agriculture that the draft Free - Range Poultrymeat Marketing Standards ( Amendment ) ( England ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 1 July , be approve . — ( Martin McCluskey . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Limited Liability Partnerships that the draft Limited Liability Partnerships ( Application and Modification of Company Law ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 30 June , be approve . — ( Martin McCluskey . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , company that the draft Register of People with Significant Control ( Amendment ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 30 June , be approve . — ( Martin McCluskey . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , company that the draft Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Act 2023 ( Consequential , Incidental and Miscellaneous Provisions ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 30 June , be approve . — ( Martin McCluskey . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , fee and charge that the draft Online Safety Act 2023 ( Qualifying Worldwide Revenue ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 26 June , be approve . — ( Martin McCluskey . ) question agree to . Petition - Recognition of Palestinian Statehood I rise to present this petition on behalf of the resident of Birmingham Hodge Hill and Solihull North . the petition declare that my constituent believe that the UK should recognise palestinian statehood . for too long now , we have witness the most unimaginable horror inflict on the man , woman and little child of Gaza , as the Government of Mr Netanyahu seek to create a desert and call it peace . this be an existential moment for the palestinian people . the International Criminal Court have describe war crime and crime against humanity . we in this House can not now turn away . we have a duty to act as a country , and we have a responsibility to act now . one hundred and forty country have recognise Palestine . we should act , and we should act unconditionally , unreservedly and urgently . the Government have set out a plan to recognise Palestine . they must now follow it through — to uphold international law , challenge claim of annexation , and show that we in this country match word with deed . my constituent call for recognition as part of a plan to stop this barbarity and killing and to surge in aid and release the hostage . the petitioner therefore " request that the House of Commons urge the Government to recognise palestinian statehood . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of the resident of the constituency of Birmingham Hodge Hill and Solihull North Declares that the resident believe that the UK should recognise palestinian statehood . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to recognise palestinian statehood . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ P003108 ] diabetes in Sport Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Martin McCluskey . ) 7 . 16 pm it be a real privilege to speak on the vital topic of diabete and sport . I thank Chris Bright and the Diabetes Football Community , Breakthrough T1D UK and Diabetes UK for their invaluable support and work . I be so grateful to the many people who have contact I with their story , which have be both uplifting and heartbreaking . the fact that we be debate this issue in the Chamber be a huge moment for those who have champion it for a very long time . I hope it mark the start of a national conversation about unlock the potential of young athlete with diabetes , reassure their family , and support the incredible volunteer and coach who make grassroots sport such an asset . diabetes affect 12 million people in the UK . that mean that one in five adult be live with diabete or pre - diabete . it be not only a serious condition in itself but a gateway to other devastating health problem . each week in this country , diabete contribute to more than 980 stroke , 184 amputation , 680 heart attack and 3 , 000 case of heart failure . it account for almost 30 % of cardiovascular disease death . this be a public health challenge on an immense scale . the good news be that physical activity be one of the most powerful tool we have to combat those outcome . exercise improve how effectively the body use insulin , whether naturally produce or inject , and help to keep blood glucose level within the target range . as a type 1 diabetic myself , I completely agree with what the hon . Member say . exercise be an excellent way of moderate blood sugar level , but it can also bring stress and strain , as diabetic do worry about hypoglycaemia , which I be sure he will come to . I be a big fan of anything we can do to support people to take up sport , so I congratulate he on secure this debate . I thank the hon . member for her contribution . I will come on to hypos , as we call they , in a minute , but she be right that reassurance and education be so important . I commend the hon . member for bring forward this debate ; he be right to highlight these issue . I want to tell he about a young boy from back home . I recently read an article on diabete . co . uk about a young man call Ryan Nixon - Stewart from Lisburn in County Down who have his sight set on olympic victory in athletic after be diagnose with type 1 diabetes . I know that the hon . Gentleman want to inspire people , and this young man similarly want to inspire other . his story be inspirational to those who wrongly believe that diabete and sport do not co - exist . I be pleased to see the Minister in her place ; she be always helpful . do the hon . Member not agree that we must do more to educate our young people to break down the barrier to sporting victory ? apology , Madam Deputy Speaker ; I should have declare an interest as a type 2 diabetic . the hon . member be absolutely right to raise that point . today I want to talk about the issue of stigma connect with diabete and sport , particularly type 1 diabete , and some of the inappropriate stereotype that put people off take part in sport , which then impact their health . exercise can reduce the amount of insulin need , help maintain a healthy weight , improve blood pressure and cholesterol , and support mental health by reduce stress and improve mood . there be no single good form of exercise for everyone with diabetes ; what matter be move in way that people enjoy and can sustain , whether that be play football , dance or simply go for a walk . I want to tell the House about Chris Bright , who be in the Public Gallery . I meet Chris play futsal , a fast - pace , small - sided football game that use a heavy ball and which start become popular in leisure centre about a decade ago . for those unfamiliar , futsal be a sport love by many football fanatic ; indeed , hon . member might know Max Kilman , currently at West Ham , who play futsal as a young man and represent England . Chris and I live close to each other in Redditch and often travel to game together . he be not only a special talent but someone who work incredibly hard , take great care of himself and always strive to be well . our team be successful — a modern - day Crazy Gang of player of many nationality — but none of we know the extra challenge Chris face manage his diabetes alongside training . one day , on drive he home from a game , I be shock when I notice that he be inject himself because his level be not where they need to be . look back , I can not believe how underprepared we be , as a club or even as his teammate , to support he . Chris be an unrelenting personality . that be why he go on to play international futsal for Wales . More than that , Chris have be a pioneer in the diabetes community , set up the Diabetes Football Community in Worcestershire . the group run football team for all age and gender , hold family day and provide peer support , make sport accessible and welcome for people with diabete . Chris ' s work be exactly the kind of grassroots leadership we need to replicate across the country , but these personal effort can not replace systemic change . that be why I want to share some story from parent whose child with diabete have face exclusion , misunderstanding and stigma when they have try to take part in sport . Parent One tell I their 10 - year - old child be virtually force out of their football team because the manager say he could not cope with the child ' s condition , even though the parent attend every match and training session and never ask for special treatment . they move their child to another team where the manager also have type 1 diabete , which help . Parent Two describe be actively discourage from send their son to a swimming lesson . they offer to monitor and treat he as need , train a staff member and comply with safeguard check , but be tell no parent be allow in and their offer be refuse . they only find another swim class after contact Swim England directly . Parent Three share their experience with karate . after diagnosis , they be initially welcome because the sensei ' s stepson also have type 1 diabete , but after a hypo incident treat on the sideline , they be ask to leave the dojo for " eat and not keep still , " which be deeply upsetting and lead they to stop go to class . another parent speak of their child not be select for a school cricket tournament because the sport lead do not want the " hassle " of care for he , even though child with no interest in cricket be pick . another child be sideline from hockey match after a coach show clear misunderstanding and frustration about manage a hypo incident . the child eventually switch to football where the support be well . even at elite level , a young player in a premier league performance squad experience exclusion from game after a hypo , despite family reassurance that he be fit to play . the coach never check in and the player do not get a single minute in an important match , leave he deeply upset . he ultimately leave the club despite the apology and offer of training for coach — all because of stigma about something that affect million of people in this country . I thank my hon . friend for give way and for encourage awareness of the often unnecessary barrier face by people with diabete . we know the huge physical and social benefit of sport , yet stigma , lack of awareness and poor policy , as describe , often hold people back . only a small fraction of coach have diabete training and nearly half of people with diabete say they have be tell they can not be active . do my hon . friend agree that we need sporting body to prioritise awareness and education and to tackle stigma , so that everyone can enjoy sport ? I thank my hon . friend for a very articulate summary of where we be . we can not risk lose these athlete from the system — or even risk lose the people who want to play sport at a grassroots level , just to keep fit and keep up friendship . the story that I have tell today expose a systemic failure : many coach , school , and sporting body be ill - equipped to support people with diabetes , create unnecessary barrier to participation and enjoyment . of 184 national governing body in sport , only 20 mention diabete on their website or in policy document , and just four have specific policy to support people with diabete . that be simply not good enough , especially as chronic health condition become more common . we need national sport body to show leadership , and to work with healthcare professional and organisation such as Breakthrough T1D and diabetes UK on training coach and volunteer and on provide clear , accessible policy . diabetes be a disability that be often hide and not well understand , and people with it suffer from all the stigma that my hon . friend have describe so well . it be complex to manage , especially be metabolic , and especially in relation to sport , so listen to parent and family , and young people and other with diabetes , be vital . we have benefit in Worcester from the fantastic Warriors Foundation and the Chris Pennell rugby academy , and I have see the incredible advantage they have bring for people with type 1 diabete in our area . they have show how sport can facilitate community , well awareness and well management of the condition for people with diabete . do my hon . friend agree that in sport , diabetes should be manage at an elite level , so that there be a real opportunity for people with diabete to own the condition and their sport performance ? I thank my hon . friend and neighbour for his contribution . he be absolutely right . it be incredible how sport can be use to reach people and inform they about health condition in a way that many other area of our public policy can not . the Equality Act 2010 provide legal protection against discrimination but a gulf remain between policy and live experience . People with diabete — often a hidden disability , as my hon . friend say — face ongoing discrimination and a lack of adjustment in school , workplace , leisure centre and community setting . diabetes be a major public health crisis with far - reach consequence . physical activity can prevent complication , improve quality of life and reduce the burden on our NHS , where diabete prescription account for 15 % of total medication cost . health inequality be stark . People from the most deprived area be twice as likely to develop type 2 diabete , and be less likely to have access to green space and safe affordable place to be active . we need target support for these community to close this gap . my hon . friend talk about health inequality ; we know that people of some ethnicity be more predisposed to diabetes , so as well as sport organisation focus on improve information and support for people with diabetes , do he agree that they should also support people from different ethnicity to ensure that health inequality be iron out at every level ? I thank my hon . friend for his contribution . I know he be a champion for reduce health inequality in his constituency . I completely agree with he , and I hope that will be part of what we do on this . in conclusion , the unpredictability of diabetes be a real obstacle to physical activity , but ignorance and stigma should never be . People with diabetes deserve to feel safe and confident participate in sport and exercise , and coach , teacher and volunteer must be equip with the knowledge and skill to support they . the status quo simply be not work , and I hope that the Minister , after today ' s discussion , will be willing to meet I , community leader and stakeholder , so that we can work together and plan how to deal with this . together , we can put in place a clear pathway to ensure that everyone , regardless of their health condition , can participate in sport , and that as a nation , we can reap the reward of improved health outcome . I be really pleased to be respond to this debate , and I begin by congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Redditch ( Chris Bloore ) on secure it . this have be a well attend Adjournment debate , and I put on record my thank to member for their attendance and the intervention . we have have intervention from across the House , include from the hon . member for South Northamptonshire ( Sarah Bool ) and for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , and my hon . friend the Members for Wolverhampton North East ( Mrs Brackenridge ) and for Smethwick ( Gurinder Singh Josan ) . that show the real interest in this incredibly important topic . my hon . friend the Member for Redditch make a powerful speech outline why this be such an important issue and debate . this Government have set out a bold and ambitious agenda for change , and sport and physical activity have an important role to play in it , as my hon . friend outline . I will discuss that before address specific issue that he raise . not only do physical activity play a vital role in tackle the health challenge face our nation by help to treat and manage a wide range of health condition , but community sport can play a major role in build confidence and teamwork , support life skill for future generation and improve community cohesion . despite those benefit , over a fifth of adult — almost 12 million — be inactive , and over a third of child do less than 30 minute of activity a day . the datum show we that this vary by geography , ethnicity and socioeconomic background . I have see that at first hand in my constituency ; people in Stairfoot live seven year few than people on the other side of Barnsley . that be just one example ; too often , that be replicate across the country . put simply , too many people be inactive , and the number be disproportionately high among certain demographic , include people with long - term health condition , such as diabete . our ambition be that everyone , no matter their background , should be able to take part in sport . be physically active be particularly important in help to reduce the risk of chronic disease in adult and manage long - term health condition . evidence show that physical activity directly prevent 3 . 2 million case of long - term health condition per year , include 600 , 000 case of diabete , equate to over £ 10 billion of healthcare saving each year . move more can substantially reduce the risk of diabete . for example , move more can reduce the adult population ' s relative risk of type 2 diabete by 40 % . for people live with either type 1 or type 2 diabete , be active help manage the condition ; in particular , it reduce the likelihood of serious complication , such as stroke and heart disease . in fact , move more can , over time , help people with type 2 diabete manage their blood glucose level . of course , be physically active be incredibly good for mental health as well as physical health . my hon . friend know all this , which be why he bring forward the debate . the challenge for all of we be how we ensure that those with long - term health condition , such as diabete , can benefit from physical activity . while every person ' s experience be unique , common barrier for people with diabete include pain , fatigue and sometimes the necessity of regular injection . I be particularly concerned to hear that people with diabete have also report that stigma have hold they back from do more physical activity . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Redditch ( Chris Bloore ) for bring forward the debate , and for so brilliantly set out the challenge , but also the opportunity to give people with diabete far more benefit from sport . one of the brilliant innovation in mental healthcare in recent year have be social prescribing in general practice . so much of that revolve around encourage people to be physically active and to socialise . do the Minister agree that it be absolutely vital that we ensure that when we signpost people to support , it be available to people with diabete , so that they can reap the benefit , rather than feel the stigma of rejection from space , which she and my hon . friend mention ? my hon . friend make an incredibly important point , and I will come on to discuss that shortly . we all share a responsibility to enable , support and include people who be manage health condition such as diabete , include in sporting environment . increase physical activity and reduce inactivity be part of the Government ' s health agenda to shift from treatment to prevention . our 10 - year health plan publish in July 2025 commit to take a place - base approach to physical activity . we will invest £ 250 million in 100 place through Sport England , invest £ 400 million in local community sport facility , and develop new school sport partnership to support school and family in establish healthy physical activity behaviour early on . Sport England ' s place - base partnership show that where investment in physical activity be design with local people , physical inactivity rate be nearly 4 percentage point lower . I be chair of the all - party parliamentary group for diabetes , and over the summer , we visit the northern general hospital in Sheffield . we meet healthcare professional who speak about their one - stop shop for people with diabete . they want to deliver service in community , and in place with grassroots community sport . do she agree that this might be a perfect opportunity that tie into what she describe ? absolutely . the hon . Gentleman make a good point . I would love to hear more about that example in Sheffield , just down the road from my constituency . he bring I neatly on to the example that I be go to share . I recently see some of this work in action when I visit Essex . there , local council leader be work in partnership with Active Essex , local health service and leisure provider to knit service together . they be build strong link between the health and leisure sector , include by co - locate service , so that people have easy access to a wide range of physical activity opportunity . that mean , for example , that people with long - term health condition can access activity that not only improve their physical health , but be fun and social and , in some case , contribute to get they back into work . of course , excellent example of the work be do be local NHS and social prescribing service , as my hon . friend the Member for Cannock Chase ( Josh Newbury ) say . they can direct individual with long - term condition to various local physical activity opportunity , such as public leisure facility , walk group and nature - base exercise as part of the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs funding for green social prescribing . Parkrun be link with over 2 , 000 gp practice , and offer a free option for all ability . Sport England fund and provide guidance and education for their system partner . it fund " Moving Medicine " , a Faculty of Sport and Exercise Medicine initiative that provide resource to support healthcare professional in integrate physical activity conversation into routine clinical care . that include specific guidance on type 1 and type 2 diabetes . Sport England ' s Buddle programme provide free learning and support resource to inspire and strengthen club and organisation offer sport and physical activity , as well the professional who work with they . Buddle share the late information , training and tool , to help club and organisation overcome challenge and make the most of the opportunity available to they . that include share case study and signpost further guidance to enable those with long - term health condition to exercise safely and effectively . the national " we be undefeatable " campaign , fund by Sport England , inspire and support people to be active by show people live with a variety of condition — both visible and invisible — on their journey to be active . the campaign aim to address the stigma around exercise with disability and long - term health condition , to reduce exclusion from physical activity . my hon . friend the Member for Redditch give incredibly powerful and move example of the impact that stigma can have , show clearly that there be more to do to ensure that the sport sector provide the support need for those with diabete . we expect all national govern body to have plan in place to support those with long - term health condition , and to make the most of the training and support on offer from the professional development body for sport and physical activity and from the NHS . although the research that my hon . Friend refer to indicate a lack of clear , explicit policy on chronic condition , such as diabete , in many ngb , the legal requirement not to discriminate and to make reasonable adjustment remain in force . the research clearly show that some area of inclusion have more develop policy than other , as be the case with diabete . that disparity suggest the need for a more co - ordinated and robust approach to support individual with chronic health condition in sport . we will therefore continue to look for further answer , include through Sport England conduct research with diabetes UK on the barrier to and opportunity for physical activity . I be very happy to meet my hon . friend the Member for Redditch and the organisation that he mention . ultimately , this be about every part of the system — from the NHS to national governing body , and from leader to local partner — play their part in make sport and physical activity easy to access and manage alongside diabete . I thank the Minister for be very generous with her time . one key point be that when it come to exercise and sport , our most formative experience be at school . when my sister be at high school , diabete carry a massive stigma , and she be tell that she would have to inject her insulin in a toilet , which be completely inappropriate . do the Minister agree that we must ensure that people with diabete have positive experience , start as early as school ? I absolutely agree . I thank the hon . gentleman for his work with the all - party parliamentary group . in summary , I thank my hon . friend the Member for Redditch and Members across the House for their contribution to this debate . as much as anything else , public awareness be key to this agenda . I hope that my hon . friend can take from my response that the Government be commit to get more people active , no matter their background . I be hugely passionate about this agenda , as I know that be physically active and play sport be genuinely life - change , and , if anything , can be even more important for those with long - term health condition . I will happily continue to work with he on this issue . question put and agree to . House adjourn .