Oral Answers to Questions Wales the Secretary of State be ask — Visitor Levy whether she have have discussion with the Welsh Government on the potential impact of the propose visitor levy on the economy in Wales . whether she have have discussion with the Welsh Government on the potential impact of the propose visitor levy on the economy in Wales . whether she have have discussion with the Welsh Government on the potential impact of the propose visitor levy on the economy in Wales . ahead of the opening game of this year ' s six Nations in Paris on Friday evening , I know member right across the House will want to join I in wish the Wales team good luck in their campaign . Wales have join a long list of other country that have introduce a visitor levy , include Germany , Spain and France . the Welsh Government ' s Bill will enable local authority to decide whether to implement a small levy locally . the money raise will be use to invest in Wales ' s thrive tourist sector , and develop and maintain attraction for resident and visitor alike . hospitality business in my constituency of Bridlington and the Wolds be rightly concerned about Labour ' s plan for a tourist tax in Wales , so will the Secretary of State confirm to the House today whether it be her Government ' s policy to roll out such a tax across the United Kingdom ? as the hon . Member may know , tourism be devolve , and we work closely with the devolved government . the Department for Culture , Media and Sport — my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for that Department be here — will carefully monitor the proposal by the Welsh Government . there be currently no plan to introduce a similar tax in England . I welcome the Government ' s ambition to welcome 50 million visitor per year to the UK by 2030 , but do the Secretary of State share my concern that a visitor levy , combine with ever more expensive electronic travel authorisation , will make it much more expensive for people to visit Wales , and indeed my constituency of Mid Bedfordshire , starve hard - work people of income at a time when they have to pay labour ' s job tax ? as far as I be aware , Mid Bedfordshire be not in Wales . the hon . member raise objection to the Welsh Government ' s policy , but he should perhaps check his own rank first , because Conservative - run Great Yarmouth borough council have support a form of tourist levy for year . like many of my constituent in Romford , I have always enjoy visit Wales . however , for many , this visitor levy will be a step too far ; it be bind to deter tourism to the Principality . do the Secretary of State agree with I that we should be encouraging and champion british domestic tourism , not inhibit it ? there be a number of assumption in the hon . member ' s question . as I say , more than 40 country and holiday destination around the world have introduce a form of visitor levy , and many of we have pay levy when visit other country . as I say , one of the Conservatives ' own council be champion a tourist levy . they need to do their research well . economic Growth what recent discussion she have have with Cabinet colleague on increase economic growth in Wales . economic growth be the no . 1 priority for this Government . our new industrial strategy and national wealth fund will boost economic growth , create job and drive up living standard across Wales . work alongside ministerial colleague , I be pleased to confirm £ 320 million of funding for the two investment zone in Wales , and to give the green light for Welsh freeport . together , these will unlock billion in private investment and create over 20 , 000 job in our port and community . I , too , wish Wales luck in the Six Nations , but I wish Scotland more luck . Scotland , like Wales , be set to benefit from significant tax incentive and investment , under the UK Government ' s freeport scheme . do the Secretary of State agree that the scheme offer an excellent opportunity for economic growth ? I thank my hon . friend for his question , and I wholeheartedly agree with he . the freeport programme will deliver economic growth and job across Wales . anglesey freeport ' s tax site have go live , which be excellent news . the freeport aim to attract over £ 1 billion of investment into the green energy sector and to create nearly 5 , 000 job by 2030 . the celtic freeport be set to attract £ 8 . 4 billion of private and public investment , and to deliver 11 , 500 job . give the significance of trade relationship between Northern Ireland and Wales , particularly in agriculture and textile , can we ensure that any economic prosperity for Wales be beneficial for Northern Ireland as well ? the hon . Gentleman may have hear the Chancellor ' s speech this morning . our no . 1 priority be economic growth right across all four nation of the United Kingdom . I call the Chair of the Welsh Affairs Committee . I welcome the recent announcement on the creation of artificial intelligence growth zone across the UK , which will turbocharge growth and boost living standard . as part of that AI development , Vantage Data Centres have plan to invest over £ 12 billion across the UK , create at least 11 , 000 job , include in my constituency . will the Secretary of State speak to her colleague around the Cabinet table and work with I and other to develop an AI growth zone for south Wales to secure the economic growth that we so desperately need ? I be glad that my hon . friend raise that . she will know that the Government be fully commit to harness AI to improve productivity and efficiency , and to boost economic growth . I be pleased to hear the Chancellor talk about AI growth zone in her speech . like my hon . friend , I want to ensure that Wales maximise AI opportunity . I will be happy to discuss that far with she . one of the advantage of this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland be that every region benefit from the trading opportunity that arise . will the Secretary of State reaffirm that there be advantage for Northern Ireland from its economic contact with Wales , as there be for Scotland and England ? as I say , the Government be determined to see growth right across the United Kingdom , in all four nation . the relationship between Wales and Northern Ireland be very strong , and long may that continue . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . Wales be in dire need of economic growth , as we have some of the low wage in the United Kingdom and area with the high level of poverty . do the Secretary of State agree that banking hub can be part of the solution ? will she support my campaign for a banking hub in Ystradgynlais , the large town in my constituency ? the bank close and leave town several year ago , so local resident and business face long trip to access cash . I know Ystradgynlais well , and would be happy to meet the hon . member to discuss a banking hub . he will know that we have see the decimation of high - street bank over the last 14 year . banking hub be a crucial element in keep a community together , and in ensure its access to cash . we have hear this week that it be growth for Heathrow but decline for Welsh university . Cardiff University in the Secretary of State ' s home city be axe 400 full - time job due to a funding crisis , with nursing , music and modern language degree on the chop block . this be an education disaster play out in real time . will the Government scrap their national insurance hike to ease the strain on university ? the potential job loss at Cardiff University be deeply concern and will come as a significant blow to university staff and their family . I hope that there will be sufficient volunteer for a voluntary redundancy programme , so that we avoid compulsory redundancy , and that support will be provide to those impact . the right hon . Lady will know that the last 14 year of conservative policy have see the university sector decimate across the United Kingdom . on conservative policy , the Secretary of State will know that university be also be hammer by Brexit . the number of EU student start full - time undergraduate course in the UK fall by 68 % between 2020 and 2024 to the low level in 30 year . surely she agree that our rejoin the single market would help university to attract more student , as well as boost economic growth . this Government have make economic growth their no . 1 mission . the Prime Minister be lead from the front in reset the UK ' s relationship with the EU . however , the right hon . Lady ' s question highlight the stark risk associate with separatism . those risk be why I will always be a strong and passionate advocate for a Wales that thrive as part of the United Kingdom . Crime Prevention what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to help support crime prevention in Wales . our plan for change will put an extra 13 , 000 police officer , police community support officer and special constable on our street across the UK , include in Wales . in December , I open a brand - new base for Gwent police in Abergavenny , so that officer can well serve the town and restore the visible , accessible policing that our community deserve . in Monmouthshire , domestic abuse victim and survivor tell I that their voice still be not hear by the police . they stress the need for those on the ground to be well train in early intervention , which can prevent escalation and reduce violent behaviour and domestic abuse overall . what step can be take with colleague across Government , and Welsh Government colleague , to well embed domestic abuse prevention ? my hon . friend will know that the Prime Minister ' s plan for change reinforce our manifesto ambition to halve violence against woman and girl in a decade . we will do everything in our power to achieve that . we will put specialist rape and sexual offence team in every police force in Wales , and early this year we will start the process of introduce domestic abuse expert into 999 control room , so that victim can talk directly to a specialist for the advice and support that they need and deserve . rural crime be a scourge across the entirety of the United Kingdom . what discussion have the Secretary of State have with her Cabinet colleague on ensure a consistent approach to tackle rural crime across the UK ? we be elect on a manifesto that include a mission for safe street across every nation of the United Kingdom . we will put police back on the beat , ensure there be a name officer for every neighbourhood , and provide 13 , 000 additional officer , police community support officer and special constable in neighbourhood role in England and Wales . the provisional police funding settlement have be increase this year by up to £ 1 billion . I call the shadow Secretary of State . an ITV Wales investigation last year discover 28 prevention of future death report over a 16 - month period relate to the north Wales Betsi Cadwaladr University Health Board . the Welsh Secretary ' s predecessor call for an inquiry into these tragedy . meanwhile , answer be rightly be seek , as there be clear evidence of groom gang sexually exploit young child in Wales . will the Secretary of State commit to building on her predecessor ' s action , and push the Welsh Government to use the Inquiries Act 2005 to launch two vital Wales - wide inquiry , to give victim and their love one justice ? the hon . Lady will be aware that , unlike the previous Government , we be determined to give the victim of child sexual exploitation the long - overdue justice that they deserve by enact the recommendation of the Jay review . on 16 January , the Home Secretary announce that victim will be give more power to have their case re - examined . we have also unveil a rapid national audit , to be lead by Baroness Louise Casey , to uncover the scale and profile , include ethnicity , of group - base offending in the UK today . it be clear from the Secretary of State ' s weak response that the Labour party have a woman problem and a justice problem . in a Nation Cymru report , a survivor say that she believe the abuse be still happen , and that young victim be not get the help they need . a refusal to create a process for listen to victim in Wales and hold inquiry mean that justice will not prevail and community remain at risk . this House will be as concerned as I be about the number of domestic abuse case in south Wales increase last year ; there be almost 18 , 000 victim . what step be she take directly to support victim and survivor ? that be a bit rich come from the hon . Lady . previous conservative Governments — her government — decimate the Ministry of Justice budget . crown court delay , victim wait year for Crown court trial — that all happen under their watch . we be protect woman and girl in Wales , where the Tories fail to do so . NHS Reform what recent discussion she have have with the Welsh Government on NHS reform in Wales . the Budget provide the Welsh Government with an additional £ 1 . 7 billion to invest in public service , such as the NHS . the Welsh Government announce £ 157 million of funding for the NHS in Wales this year , and more than £ 600 million extra in their draft budget to fund health and social care and drive down waiting list . the Labour party have be run the NHS for 25 year in Wales , where waiting list be through the roof , compare with those in England . do the Secretary of State agree with Mr Mark Drakeford that what Wales really need be few hospital ? the Welsh Government have no plan to close any hospital . I will not be take any lecture from the Conservatives , with their fictitious plan to build 40 new hospital in England . the hospital do not exist ; the money do not exist — they be not happen . will the Secretary of State outline how she and her colleague be work with the Welsh Government to improve health outcome for people in Wales ? we be work in a spirit of genuine collaboration with the Welsh Government to do everything possible to cut waiting list and build an NHS fit for the future in both England and Wales — a marked change from previous UK Governments , who be obstructive and hostile to the Welsh Government . we be share good practice , and the Welsh Government have establish a ministerial advisory group to plan NHS reform that will improve performance and reduce waiting list . the group will draw on expertise from the NHS in both Wales and England . I call the shadow Secretary of State . labour have be run the NHS badly in Wales since Tony Blair be Prime Minister , with waiting time constantly at record level ever since . the Government can not just devolve and forget — the people of Wales need to see and feel proactivity from the Wales Office . everybody know somebody wait in pain in Wales . last week , on " any Questions ? " , the First Minister speak without much detail of an injection of money that will bring down waiting list . can the Secretary of State explain if there be a plan , or if it be just another blank piece of paper ? the £ 600 million that the Welsh Government be to invest in the Welsh NHS can happen only if the hon . Lady ' s colleague in the Senedd vote for the budget . if they do not vote for it , the money will not happen . strengthen the Union what step she be take to strengthen the Union . through our new Council of Nations and Regions and regular engagement between the Secretary of State and the First Minister , our two government be collaborate more closely than ever before . this mean that we can deliver for Wales in new way — on the NHS and on rail — as well as create new job opportunity by deliver freeport , establish investment zone and develop our industrial strategy to attract investment in critical area such as offshore wind . do the Minister agree that the close collaboration by the UK and Welsh Governments to deliver the industrial strategy be an essential element of this Government ' s plan to deliver strong economic growth throughout the UK , and will she explain how this joint work by both government will help Welsh industry ? do she far agree that the SNP Government in Scotland should take a similar approach to reap the full benefit of our great partnership of nation , which be so badly undermine by the reckless action of the previous Government ? I do indeed agree . the SNP could learn a thing or two from our collaborative approach to secure economic growth in Wales . our new industrial strategy be central to our growth mission and our plan for change . the Secretary of State have establish an innovative economic advisory group to enable the UK and Welsh Governments , business leader , trade union and expert to work together to pursue opportunity for growth and job , and to attract investment . far to that answer , I see from recent press coverage that the SNP Government be once again bang on about another independence referendum , despite the Supreme Court ' s ruling . will the Government make it crystal clear to devolve government that they do not have the power to arbitrarily instigate independence referendum ? I can confirm that the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right . Job Creation what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to help create new job in Wales . what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to help create new job in Wales . since July , we have drive over £ 1 billion of private investment from Eren Holding and Kellogg ' s into Wales , create and sustain over 400 well - pay job in manufacturing . our Welsh freeport and investment zone will together unlock billion in private investment and aim to create at least 20 , 000 job across all four corner of Wales . I welcome the news that the Secretary of State have sign a memorandum of understanding on four Welsh growth deal with Cabinet Secretary for Economy , Rebecca Evans . will the Minister outline how this UK - Welsh Government partnership will deliver the well - pay job and economic growth need in area like Montgomeryshire and Glynd ŵ r ? the memorandum of understanding sign recently between the UK and Welsh Governments far demonstrate our commitment to work together to deliver economic growth throughout Wales . the UK Government have invest £ 790 million in Wales ' s growth deal , include £ 110 million in the Mid Wales growth deal which aim to leverage up to £ 400 million of public and private sector investment in the region and create up to 1 , 400 additional job . in place across the UK , include in my constituency of Wrexham , for too long too many young people have fall through the gap , mean that they can miss out on job opportunity , education and gain the critical skill essential to get on in life . what measure be the Minister take to ensure that young people can seize the opportunity of our growth mission and be not leave behind , and help they to maximise their potential ? today , my right hon . friend the Chancellor confirm that we be move forward with the £ 160 million Wrexham and Flintshire investment zone , focus on the area ' s strength in advanced manufacturing , leverage £ 1 billion of private investment over the next 10 year and create up to 6 , 000 job . growth be integral to create the opportunity that young people need to get on in life . Greyhound race whether she have have recent discussion with the Welsh Government on plan to ban greyhound race in Wales . labour have long be commit to animal welfare . indeed , it be my privilege under the previous Labour Government to serve on the Committee for the Bill that become the Animal Welfare Act 2006 . in our 2024 manifesto , we commit to far improve animal welfare , include end puppy smuggling . this particular issue be devolve to the Welsh Government . I thank the Minister for her response . I be incredibly passionate about animal welfare — I have a dog and a cat — and for the most part we be an animal - love country . that be why I find it so shocking that we still have practice such as greyhound race that treat animal as disposable . if they do not run fast enough or if they get injure , they get bin off . some of they be still spend 80 % of their life in kennel . will the Minister meet I to discuss this issue far ? I would be happy to meet my hon . friend . Net Zero what discussion she have have with the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero on meet net zero target in Wales . I be work with the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero to ensure that Wales play a lead role in reach our net zero target and clean power by 2030 . by support float offshore wind , onshore wind , hydrogen , nuclear , tidal and carbon capture , we be seize the unique economic opportunity of net zero to boost growth and create job across Wales . on float offshore wind in the Celtic sea , the Secretary of State say : " float offshore wind represent a golden opportunity " not just for meet net zero target but " for low energy bill , new job and the industry of the future " . do the Government think that the opportunity from offshore wind can extend from the Celtic sea into Cornwall and Devon , too ? the economic opportunity of float offshore wind be significant , and , obviously , the Celtic sea be a big area off part of both England and Wales . we be work closely to seize those economic opportunity to deliver job and growth , and we want to see economic growth and job throughout the United Kingdom . Prime Minister the Prime Minister be ask — Engagements if he will list his official engagement for Wednesday 29 January . community across the United Kingdom have be hit hard by storm É owyn . I speak to the leader of the devolved Administrations in Scotland and Northern Ireland over the weekend to discuss work with they on the support that be require , and to pay tribute to all those respond on the frontline . kick - start economic growth be the no . 1 mission of this Government . it will put more money in people ' s pocket and will deliver on our plan for change . today the Chancellor announce our next step to deliver that plan : a new Oxford - Cambridge corridor , redevelop Old Trafford , and support a new runway at Heathrow . we be remove the barrier to investment , support innovation , and go far and fast to boost growth . this morning I have meeting with ministerial colleague and other . in addition to my duty in the House , I shall have further such meeting later today . this April the state pension will increase by £ 470 a year , and over the course of this Parliament it will increase by up to £ 1 , 900 , benefit million of pensioner . do the Prime Minister agree that mean - test the state pension would do severe harm , and will he confirm that this Government will always protect the state pension and the triple lock ? let I be absolutely clear : there will be no means - testing of the state pension under this Labour Government . we be commit both to the triple lock and to the principle that people should receive pension base on their contribution , regardless of their wealth . my hon . friend be right : 12 million pensioner will receive a £ 470 increase in April . when people such as the Leader of the Opposition say that they want means - testing , that mean a cut . the difference between we be that they would cut pension and we be increase they . I call the Leader of the Opposition . may I take this opportunity to solemnly commemorate the 80th anniversary of the liberation of Auschwitz ? we remember the 6 million jewish man , woman and child who be murder . the Holocaust stand as a unique evil in human history . yesterday the Prime Minister set his growth test . he say that if a policy be " good for growth … the answer be ' yes ' , if it ' s not then the answer be ' no ' . " this morning the Chancellor embrace a series of conservative policy . although many be welcome , they will take year to deliver . when the Conservatives leave office , we have the fast economic growth in the G7 , but what be the Government do for growth now ? they be destroy it . let we look at the employment Bill . the Government ' s own figure say it will cost business £ 5 billion a year . it clearly fail the Prime Minister ' s growth test . will he drop it ? I think the proposition that the Conservatives leave a golden inheritance be test on 4 July , which be why they be stand over there . the Leader of the Opposition ask what we be do . the Office for National Statistics say that we have the high investment for 19 year . PwC say that this be the second - good place to invest in the world . the International Monetary Fund have upgrade our growth , predict that the UK will be the fast - grow major economy in Europe . wage be up and inflation be down . however , there be more to do . we be reform planning and regulation , build the new home that we need , and support a third runway at Heathrow . as the Leader of the opposition admit to the CBI in November , " there be no point in I just complain about Labour when it be obvious that we conservative lose the confidence of business . " we be not take lecture from they . the Prime Minister do not want to talk about the employment Bill because he do not know about it . last week he mislead the House . he be not on top of his own Education Bill — Order . we can not accuse the Prime Minister of mislead the House . [ interruption . ] we can not do it . I be sure there be word that the Leader of the opposition would prefer to use . last week , the Prime Minister claim to have lay down an amendment that he have not make . he do not know what be go on in here or out there . last week , I speak to a woman run a business in Exeter . she be terrify of take on new staff . she be struggle to keep her head above water , dread what this government will do next . she be not alone . the Federation of Small Businesses say 92 % of small employer be concerned about the employment Bill . clause 1 to 6 make it hard for business to hire new employee — often young people look for their first job . this be not an employment Bill ; it be an unemployment Bill . give these clause , will he drop his Bill and show that he be not anti - growth ? we believe in give people proper dignity and protection at work . that be why we be proud of our record on support worker . the conservative consistently vote against any protection for work people , and the Leader of the Opposition ' s consistent refrain be that there should be less , but we be drive growth on behalf of work people . good work right be consistent with growth — every good business know that . on top of planning reform , the building of house and support aviation , the Chancellor this morning speak of the Oxford - Cambridge growth corridor , redevelop Old Trafford , and manufacturing at East Midlands airport . we want to grow the economy ; the only policy the Leader of the Opposition have get be to shrink pension . all the Prime Minister ' s idea be the one that we think up . he need to make sure that we deliver growth now , as well as in the future . to grow our economy , we must get more people off sickness and welfare , and into work . clause 8 and 9 of the unemployment Bill take we in the opposite direction by increase entitlement . the Government themselves — his government — estimate that these change will increase business cost from £ 600 million to £ 1 billion a year in sick pay . that will mean high price , few job and less growth . will he drop these measure from the Bill ? no . I think they be good for worker and good for growth . this be the same argument that the Conservatives make against the minimum wage and every protection for worker . the Leader of the Opposition say that they be their idea . she say she support a third runway at Heathrow . her shadow Transport Secretary say that it would be " calamitous " . the shadow Business Secretary be busy write letter oppose airport expansion in his own back yard . the shadow Chief Secretary to the Treasury say the Oxford - Cambridge idea be " flawed " and he be against it . we be the coalition of builder ; they be the coalition of blocker . the Prime Minister forget that his own Chancellor block an airport in her constituency . they be hypocrite . let we talk about the employment Bill . part 1 of the Bill mean that a new employee could start a job in the morning and take their employer to a tribunal that afternoon . it be no wonder that this Bill have be call an " adventure playground for lawyer " . this Bill be terrible for business , but it be great employment for lawyer . I know the Prime Minister love the legal profession , but he need to stop be a lawyer and start be a leader . this be another measure in the Bill that fail his growth test . will he show some leadership and drop it ? I understand that the Leader of the Opposition like straight talk : she be talk absolute nonsense . she know , and anybody who understand anything about the Bill or any employment law will know , that you can not start in the morning and go to a tribunal in the afternoon . we know she be not a lawyer , she be clearly not a leader , and if she keep on like this , she be go to be the next lettuce . the Prime Minister do not know what his Bill be do . he should listen to business , which be terrify of this Bill . the only worker he care about be lawyer , but it be not just lawyer benefit from this Bill . who else benefit ? it be not taxpayer ; they will be pay for even more welfare . it be not young worker ; they will not get their first break . it be definitely not business ; they be be hammer with yet more burden . who benefit ? it be the trade union . part 4 of the unemployment Bill — [ interruption . ] Labour Members have not read it . part 4 of the unemployment Bill be the big expansion of trade union power for a generation — [ interruption . ] exactly ; thank you . the public will have hear they cheer . rather than deregulate for business , which create growth , he be deregulate for the union . clause 61 alone reduce the notice period for strike to just one week . give that strike be catastrophic for growth , will he drop part 4 of the Bill ? it be good for work people , and it be good for the economy . the right hon . Lady should keep up : the CBI have welcome our positive step this morning . the Chancellor have give a brilliant speech on the economy , fix the mess the Conservatives leave and grow our economy , and the CBI have say it celebrate this " positive leadership and a clear vision to kickstart the economy " . that be the difference . we be grow the economy ; the Conservatives leave it in a complete mess . the arrogance of the Prime Minister be that he think that it be his Government who create growth . he be wrong . it be business that create growth . our economy be build by entrepreneur , risk - taker and the hard graft of work people . they know that you can not tax your way to growth , you can not borrow your way to growth , you can not legislate your way to growth . other country be serious about free business from red tape . President Trump be do it in America . Argentina be take a chainsaw to regulation . even the EU be not go as far as this left - wing Government . this Bill will put we at the bottom of the pack . add to the job tax and the family business tax , it be no wonder that wealth creator be flee Britain in drove . the Chancellor be desperately try to save her reputation . she know Labour have damage growth . this Bill manifestly fail the Prime Minister ' s own growth test . if he will not drop the unemployment Bill , what be the point of his growth test ? the right hon . Lady have get a nerve . the Conservatives break the economy and completely destroy it . they break the health service and completely destroy it . they ruin the prison and everything else you can mention . they fail on every front . they be in no position to give we lecture on anything . she say that she accept they fail and they be change , but they have learn absolutely nothing . I welcome the Government ' s action last week to tackle rogue trader who install faulty home insulation , affect many of my constituent . do the Prime Minister agree that Labour ' s warm home plan will tackle fuel poverty and bring down bill for family as part of our plan for change ? the Conservatives have a lot to answer for in the fail system that they leave behind . we have take immediate action to ensure that consumer insulate their home be not let down again . we be invest £ 3 . 4 billion in our warm home plan to upgrade 5 million home . I call the leader of the Liberal Democrats . I take this opportunity to thank the Holocaust Memorial Day Trust for all its work in commemorate the 80th anniversary of the liberation of Auschwitz , and to say what a privilege it be to meet Holocaust survivor at the Guildhall event . when my hon . friend the Member for North Devon ( Ian Roome ) and I recently visit a hospital in Barnstaple , a surgeon there tell we that it be like a tick time bomb . he explain that a hospital of that size need 12 operate theatre to meet demand ; it have just four . the last Conservative Government promise to rebuild it , but we all know that that be a hollow promise . now the North Devon district hospital be one of nine across the country whose urgent rebuild programme have be postpone for over 10 year . will the Prime Minister meet hon . member whose constituent ' live be be harm by this delay , to see if there be any way we can bring these urgent project forward ? I join the right hon . gentleman in his comment about the Holocaust survivor that we meet early this week . it be incredibly move , as it always be , and I be strike by the fact that there be so many in the gathering . we be unlikely to see so many in one place like that again . we must never , ever forget . on the question of hospital , I think people across the country be right to feel angry , betray and frustrate at the last Government ' s plan , or non - plan , for hospital . it be unachievable . it be unfunded . it be empty promise . under they , these hospital would never have be build . our fund plan , back by the investment we have put in , will deliver they . we will take such step as we can on hub etc , to advance quickly on waiting list and operation , and I be more than happy to make sure that all constituent and member can meet the relevant Ministers . last week , the Prime Minister tell I that it would be three year before social care reform can be implement . now he be say that urgent hospital rebuild will take more than a decade . my hon . friend and I will keep come back to this issue . the Chancellor have now admit that we need to go far and fast in the pursuit of economic growth , and we agree , but the Prime Minister know that we believe that mean set aside his objection to a UK - EU custom union so that our country can go far and fast in rebuild our trading relationship with our european neighbour , especially with the threat to world trade pose by Trump ' s tariff and trade war . if the Prime Minister will not change his mind today on a custom union , will he confirm to the House that when he go to Brussels on Monday he will open negotiation for the UK to join the pan - Euro - Mediterranean convention so that we can start remove the growth - damage trade barrier set up by the Conservatives ? our no . 1 mission be growth , which be why have we set out all the initiative over the past seven month , particularly the one this morning . the right hon . Gentleman know that in relation to the reset with the EU , which we be determined to achieve , we have clear red line when it come to the single market and the custom union . he know where we stand on that . today ' s Joseph Rowntree Foundation report on UK poverty highlight not only who be most likely to be poor but the scale and increase in deep and endure poverty . I be encourage by the Prime Minister ' s response to I at the Liaison Committee before Christmas , when he explain and acknowledge that disabled people experience poverty because of their extra cost and that , while more than 2 million disabled people can and want to work , many other can not and should receive adequate support . many vulnerable claimant be worried follow speculation that the £ 3 billion of saving to be find from the social security budget may impact on their disability benefit . do my right hon . and learn Friend agree that language matter and that their concern must be hear ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this . I know she be deeply concerned about this issue and campaign on it . the rise in poverty cause by the mismanagement of the economy by the conservative party be unacceptable . our approach to social security will ensure that work be accessible to as many people as possible , as a route out of poverty . that include the new Connect to work programme , which be expect to help 100 , 000 disabled people find and stay in work . I thank the Prime Minister and the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster for their sterling support for Northern Ireland over the past few day in the aftermath of storm É owyn , which be greatly appreciated and demonstrate how well the Union work . on 15 August 1998 , the fragile peace in Northern Ireland be shatter when the real IRA detonate a bomb in Omagh town . twenty - nine people die , and two unborn twin never see this world . through the dignity and the stoic campaigning of Michael Gallagher , whose son Aiden die , a public inquiry be secure through the court , which recommend in 2021 that the Irish Government should similarly hold an inquiry to understand what could have be prevent , give the cross - border nature of the atrocity — the bomb be prepare in and transport from the Irish Republic . will the Prime Minister use his good office to ensure that truth be deliver and justice arrive for the family of those who so needlessly lose their life to irish republican terrorism ? first , I assure the right hon . Gentleman that we will continue to work with the leader in Northern Ireland to ensure that we deal with the storm , which have be devastating for very many people who be still without power and who have all the associate problem . I thank the right hon . gentleman for raise the Omagh bombing inquiry . it be a heinous and cowardly terrorist attack , and it shock the world . our thought be with the family member who be take part in commemorative hearing this week . I welcome the Irish Government ' s commitment to co - operate with the inquiry . the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland have raise with the Irish Government the importance of work together on address these and all legacy issue , and I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for raise this very serious and important issue . the Ipswich northern bypass be a project of local , regional and national importance , and on which the future of our town and county hinge . however , this critical project have be gather dust for year , repeatedly block by people who refuse to act in our long - term interest . the Prime Minister have set out how our Government will back the builder over the blocker , so will he now back the builder in my town and make this a project of national significance through our plan for change ? my hon . friend have be relentless in seek to boost growth and investment in Ipswich and Suffolk . the gridlock his constituent face underline the failure of the Conservatives to deal with that when they have the chance to do so . we will fast track decision on at least 150 major economic infrastructure project to kick - start growth , and I will ensure that my hon . friend get a meeting with the relevant Minister to discuss the issue of concern to he . as my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) say early , last week North Devon district hospital get the devastating news that investment would be delay for 10 year , beyond 2035 . in the five year since the last government ' s empty promise , our hospital ' s maintenance backlog have grow to over £ 40 million . give that £ 200 million have reportedly be spend just on consultancy fee for the new hospital programme , what funding for extra maintenance will be available for those hospital that now face another decade of wait ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise the issue . his constituent will be angry and frustrate at the empty , unfunded promise leave by the Conservatives . let we be clear , under their non - plan , North Devon district hospital would simply not have be deliver — it be not just delay ; it be never go to be deliver . conservative Members know that , the hon . Gentleman know that and his constituent know that . we have put in place a fund , deliverable plan that will see the hospital build , and we will work closely with the trust to accelerate work . the conservative party owe his constituent an apology . child in Ealing Southall will be sleep on sofas and living room floor tonight because of 14 year of failure by the Conservatives . Ealing council have join over 100 council that be try to remove the barrier and give those kid a decent home to live in — something Conservative Members do not seem to care about . as part of the Government ' s plan for change , will the Prime Minister look at the five solution put forward by those council , so that we can secure the future of council housing for those child sleep on the floor tonight ? my hon . friend be right to raise that very serious issue . we be commit to work with every council to deliver the big increase in social and affordable housing in a generation . we be immediately take action to reform the right to buy and to enable council to borrow more cheaply , and invest in the affordable home programme . I enter active politic after an attack in my home be misuse by other to promote an anti - European Union and anti - immigrant agenda . my life be save by two brave police officer from Wimbledon police station . as a family , our life be transform by a restorative justice session organise by the charity why I ? , where we meet one of my four attacker in prison . will the Prime Minister meet I to discuss how his Government can give restorative justice great emphasis , put victim at the centre of the criminal justice system , reduce recidivism , and cut crime and cost ? I extend my sympathy for what the hon . member experience — it must have have a profound impact on he and his family . I , too , have see the power of restorative justice , which enable victim to receive answer and perpetrator to face the human cost of their crime . under the victim ' code , all adult victim must be tell about restorative justice and how to access it . we can always do more and I will ensure that he get the meeting that he want with the relevant Minister . I be pleased to announce that this summer I will be go on paternity leave again for baby no . 2 . may I congratulate the Secretary of State for Scotland on his new arrival ? the Chancellor speak brilliantly this morning about growth , and I be pleased to reveal that new research from the Joseph Rowntree Foundation show that by increase paternity leave , we could increase economic growth by £ 2 . 6 billion a year . will the Prime Minister review statutory paternity leave ? from one father to another , will he meet I and the Dad Shift to discuss how we can support new parent ? I wish my hon . friend and his wife well with their new arrival . we be conduct a review into parental leave , because we can not grow the economy if parent have to choose between work and their child . thank to the Employment Rights Bill , which the Conservatives oppose , 30 , 000 more father will get paternity leave . that be the difference : the Leader of the Opposition want to roll back parental right ; we be extend they . since 2012 , the Drax power station have be give £ 7 billion of green subsidy by the Government for burn 27 million tree per year . that be enough money for five year of pensioner ' winter fuel payment . while Ofgem have be asleep at the wheel , a recent KPMG report have conclude that Drax claim those subsidy illegally . will the Prime Minister demand to see that KPMG report before give another pound of taxpayer ' money to Drax ? I thank the hon . Lady for raise this important issue . of course we will look at the report , but I do not join in her description — we will look at the report . as you well know , Mr Speaker , Lancashire be a wonderful county , full of great business and hard - work people , yet for too long we have be hold back by an outdated two - tier council system . the Government ' s english devolution Bill be a massive opportunity for we to get back in the fast lane and catch up with the like of Manchester and Liverpool . will the Prime Minister join I in call on all Lancashire leader to work together in the interest of our resident , put aside political difference and self - interest , and move forward in good faith to unleash Lancashire ' s huge potential ? my hon . friend have give decade of service to his community . I be a firm believer in move power out of Westminster and into the hand of those with skin in the game . that be how we boost growth , create opportunity and drive reform . I be pleased that we be establish a combine county authority in Lancashire . our ambition be for mayor across all area of England who can take advantage of the power set out in the devolution White Paper , include in Lancashire . I declare an interest as a governor of the Royal Berkshire hospital , and a family member have share in a medical company . in the Public Gallery today be patient who use the Royal Berkshire hospital . part of its estate be crumble as we speak and it urgently need a rebuild , but we will have to wait until at least 2037 . can the Prime Minister please explain to those visitor and to the House why he think it be acceptable that staff and patient will have to dodge bucket collect rainwater from leak roof for another 18 year ? will he meet they and explain that to they face to face ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for raise this matter on behalf of his constituent , so I will speak and his constituent will hear the answer . there be not a plan for the building . it be a pretend plan ; it be a fiction . it be unfunded and undeliverable . it only exist in the head of Boris Johnson . there be the frustration for his constituent and I really understand it . they think — because they be promise — that they be go to get something , which the Conservative party know be never go to be deliver . that be absolutely unforgiveable . we will pick that up . we have put in place a fund scheme to build as quickly as we can , but it have to be fund and it have to be deliverable . that be the difference between the approach that we be take and the approach that they take . of course I will ensure that a relevant Minister meet the hon . Gentleman and his constituent to explain that more fully to they . in China , DeepSeek have develop an artificial intelligence model almost as good as the most advanced technology from OpenAI . in the US , they be invest up to $ 500 billion in build out datum centre . to build data centre , we need two thing : lot of energy and , ideally , cold weather . fortunately , Scotland have both of those in abundance . will the Prime Minister back Glasgow be an AI growth zone , to help bring investment and solidify the UK ' s place as the third large AI market on earth ? what a contrast to the SNP : a strong Labour voice champion economic growth in Scotland . the AI development this week show why we be right to put artificial intelligence at the heart of our plan for change . we have already secure £ 39 billion of AI investment , which will create 13 , 000 job across the UK . I agree with my hon . friend that Scotland have real potential for AI growth zone . I will make sure that he can meet the relevant Minister to discuss that . in my constituency of Horsham , my local council face a tax bill of half a million pound from the rise in national insurance , and my local hospice , St Catherine ' s , have have to mothball a brand - new ward . what message do the Prime Minister have for all the public service that be outright loser at the hand of the very tax that be suppose to save they ? I be grateful to the hon . member for raise this matter . as he know , local council receive an increase in their settlement this year , so they have more money to deal with the problem that they face . they be underfunde and break by the previous Government . we have now put that support funding in place . that be the right thing to do . it be such great news when the Government decide that it be right to pay compensation to the LGBT veteran who have unfairly lose their job . unfortunately , those veteran be not alone . there be other who have be prepare to lay down their life on behalf of the country who have also be treat disgracefully . I include in that list my constituent who be sack from MI6 simply for be gay . will my right hon . and learn Friend please commit to right that wrong and to meet my constituent ? I be grateful to my right hon . friend for raise this really important issue . all those who serve our country deserve our full respect and gratitude . that be why we be right the historic wrong inflict on LGBT veteran , already significantly increase the compensation available and enable they to get their rank restore . I know that this be a real issue for the Foreign Secretary . he be look at it , and I will make sure that she get to talk to he about it . we do need to deal with this historic injustice ; she be right about that . give the strategic commitment to irish unity in the programme for government of the new Government in Dublin , may I ask the Prime Minister whether he and his Government have a strategic and economic interest in retain Northern Ireland within the United Kingdom ? if they do , why then be he continue with the system whereby , in over 300 area of law in the economic sphere , Northern Ireland be subject not to UK law , but to the same law that apply in the Irish Republic — law that we do not make and can not change ? we be proud of , and totally commit to , the Good Friday agreement . Northern Ireland matter to this Government , and it matter to I . the hon . and learn Gentleman will know that I work there for five year with the Police Service of Northern Ireland . I want to see Northern Ireland secure and safe for all community and thrive in the future . I believe that it can be , and we will do everything to make sure that it be . tomorrow mark the 20th anniversary of the loss of RAF aircraft XV179 and the 10 UK service personnel who be kill onboard . those service personnel be know to their friend as Steady , Smudge , Gary Nic , Pards , Gibbo , Ritchie , Bob , Dave , Jonesy and Paddy . they be kill on a routine flight between Baghdad and Balad as the result of a poorly protect aircraft . this be the large single loss of life in the Iraq war . will the Prime Minister join I in thank and recognise our service personnel for their service and their sacrifice , and their family for their stoicism , as we gather to commemorate such a tragic moment ? I thank my hon . friend for remind the House of this case . I know that the condolence of the whole House remain with the family of these brave soldier . we will never forget the vital role they play in support the coalition operation in Iraq . I also thank my hon . friend and pay tribute to his service . we be immensely proud of our armed force and their courage and dedication as they keep our country safe . the Prime Minister may know that , this time last week , representative of those who have be injure seriously by covid vaccine be give evidence to the covid inquiry , include my constituent , Kate Scott . I hope he also know that the compensation available to those people be not adequate and be not adequately accessible . I be grateful to the Health and Social Care Secretary for the thought that I know he be give to how that position may be remedie , but may I ask the Prime Minister to give his personal support to that objective , not just because it be the right thing to do for the people affect , but because it will support the objective that we should all share , which be to maintain public confidence in vaccination ? I thank the right hon . and learn Gentleman for raise that . as he say , the Health Secretary be look at it . I assure he that I will also look at it with the Health Secretary , and we will get back to he as we do so . this week , I hear a story from an elderly resident in Bedworth . Kolin Basra phone the GP surgery to make an appointment for his elderly wife and be tell that no appointment would be available for three month . do the Prime Minister agree that that be utterly shocking and horrifying , and a direct result of 14 year of neglect by the conservative party ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that . she be absolutely right : the damage that the Conservatives do to the NHS be absolutely unforgiveable . we be take step to ensure that more GP appointment will be available , we be get the waiting list down , and we be put investment into the NHS . as with everything else , we be clear up the mess that they leave behind . the Prime Minister should know that my Romford constituent be shocked , angry and dismay by the suggestion by the Office for National Statistics that the population of this country will rise to 72 . 5 million by 2032 — that be 500 , 000 people a year , which be unsustainable . who vote for that , and will the Government do something to ensure that the population of this country be sustainable go forward ? there be no mandate for such a colossal increase in immigration to this country . I think the hon . Gentleman should talk to his party leader . net migration go through the roof under the previous Government — by nearly 1 million ; it quadruple — and who be cheer it on ? the Leader of the Opposition . the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent be right to be concern about the loss of control by the previous Government . we be take control ; we will bring those number down . but the record be absolutely clear , and it sit right there on the Opposition Benches . grow the UK Economy with your permission , Mr Speaker , I would like to update the House on the Government ' s work to unlock investment and secure economic growth . that be the no . 1 mission of this Government . without growth , we can not deliver on the priority of the british people , cut NHS waiting list , rebuild our school or put more police on our street . that be why the pursuit of growth be our first mission , put our country on a new path towards a bright future after 14 year of failure from the Conservatives . by help business to invest and create wealth , we ensure they can provide job and opportunity that change live , put more pound in people ' s pocket and rejuvenate community across the country . we have see progress on that already , with huge private sector investment into our country since this government come into service , but now we must go fast and far . we must help business and place to achieve their potential . we do that by be an active and strategic state — one that work in true partnership with business , investor and local leader to deliver for the british people in every corner of the country . that principle be at the heart of the Chancellor ' s speech early today in Oxfordshire , where she announce the late step that the Government be take to drive growth across the country . I be pleased to update the House on those announcement now . the economic growth we be pursue must reach into every town , city and community across the United Kingdom — inclusive growth for everyone , not just those at the top — because there be untapped talent and unrealised opportunity throughout the country and we can not let that go to waste any long . if we can raise the productivity of major city like Manchester , Birmingham and Leeds just to the national average , we will deliver an extra £ 33 billion in economic output . so I can confirm that our plan for regional growth will be hardwire into the spending review , the infrastructure strategy , the industrial strategy and our approach to trade and investment . we be already provide £ 200 million of funding to support the development of a new mass transit system in West Yorkshire , and at the autumn Budget we secure improved connection between town and city from Manchester through to York . we be also develop our plan to far improve connectivity in the north and across the country through our 10 - year infrastructure strategy , which will set out our long - term vision for social and economic infrastructure across the country . today we be progress with the Wrexham and Flintshire investment zone , focus on the area ' s incredible strength in advanced manufacturing to leverage in £ 1 billion of private investment and create up to 6 , 000 new job . as the Chancellor announce at Davos last week , the Office for Investment will work hand in hand with local area to develop opportunity for international inward investment , start with the Liverpool city region and the North East combine authority , while the national wealth fund will build on its strength and combine authority engagement to build a pipeline of investable proposition with mayor , start with strategic partnership in the Glasgow city region , West Yorkshire , the west midland and Greater Manchester . stick with Manchester , we be give our support to the Mayor of Greater Manchester ' s plan for the redevelopment of Old Trafford , create new housing , new commercial development and a new stadium — but , I be advise to inform the House , not necessarily government - wide support for the team that play there . I be pleased to update the House on our new approach to the Oxford - Cambridge growth corridor , a hugely exciting opportunity for the UK and the british economy . for century these two city have be synonymous with inspiration , invention and innovation . economic analysis suggest that with the right support the region could bring a GDP boost of £ 78 billion by 2035 , yet time and again government have fail to capitalise on this remarkable area , most recently in 2021 when the last Government drop their commitment to what they call the Ox - Cam arc project . through under - investment , poor transport connection and a lack of affordable housing , the incredible growth potential of the area have be squander as people and business have be force to move and invest elsewhere . no long : Lord Vallance will act as our champion for the growth corridor , utilise his impressive experience in life science , academia and Government to unlock growth opportunity across the region and promote its potential to investor across the world . we will establish a new growth commission for Oxford , to recognise and capitalise on the growth potential of this historic city . we already know , of course , that transportation be a huge factor in the success of the country . Heathrow be the UK ' s only hub airport and our large air freight hub by volume , connect we to emerge market around the world , open up new opportunity for trade and investment . but its growth have be constrain for decade . today we be announce that the Government support and be invite proposal for a third runway at Heathrow airport , to be bring forward by the summer . this be an important infrastructure project expect to have positive growth impact across the United Kingdom , and it have the backing of business and business group include the CBI , the Federation of Small Businesses and British Chambers of Commerce as well as trade union such as the GMB and Unite . accord to a recent study from Frontier Economics , a third runway could increase GDP by 0 . 43 % over the next 25 year , with over half — 60 % — of that boost go to area outside London and the south - east . it could create over 100 , 000 job in the local area and maintain Heathrow ' s status both as a global passenger hub and as the UK ' s large air freight hub by volume . reform this Government have introduce to speed up the planning system will ensure the delivery of the project and set it up for success . once proposal have be receive the Government will take forward a full assessment through the airport national policy statement to ensure that any scheme be deliver in line with our legal , environmental and climate obligation . we want the scheme to be value for money , and our clear expectation be that any surface transport cost associate with the project will be finance by private capital and should be sustainable and low - carbon . the Secretary of State for Transport will also set out planning decision for further airport expansion at Gatwick and Luton shortly . crucially , I be pleased to announce that we be take further step in our transition to greener , clean aviation . at the start of the month , the sustainable aviation fuel mandate become law . sustainable aviation fuel reduce carbon dioxide emission compare with fossil jet fuel by around 70 % . today we be announce an additional £ 63 million for the advanced fuel fund over the next year , and we have set out the detail of how we will deliver a revenue certainty mechanism . those measure will support investment and high - skill green job in plant across the United Kingdom , deliver sustainable aviation fuel here in the UK for UK consumption . transportation be equally important on a local level , and that be as true for the Oxford - Cambridge growth corridor as it be for anywhere else . this Government have confirm that they will provide crucial funding for transport link , include upgrade to the a428 to reduce journey time between Milton Keynes , Bedford and Cambridge , as well as for East West Rail with new service between Oxford and Milton Keynes start this year . we have already receive submission to the new town taskforce to build new development along the new railway . at Tempsford , we will accelerate delivery of a mainline station on the east coast main line so that traveller can get to London in under an hour and to Cambridge in under 30 minute once East West Rail have be deliver . we will ensure that the pioneer work that have long be a hallmark of the area will continue . we be today commit to a new AI growth zone in Culham . we welcome the University of Cambridge ' s plan for a new flagship innovation hub in the centre of Cambridge , and a new Cambridge cancer research hospital will be deliver as part of wave one of the new hospital programme . just yesterday , Moderna complete the build for its new vaccine production and research and development site in Harwell , while commit to invest £ 1 billion in the United Kingdom — proof that when we create the condition for success , business can lead the way . I be pleased to confirm for the House that the Environment Agency be lift its objection to specific development in Cambridge , so we will press on with plan to develop 4 , 500 additional home , new school and office , retail and lab space in and around Cambridge . in a further boost to the area , we have now agree water resource management plan with water company , unlock £ 7 . 9 billion of investment in water resource over the next five year , include the new Fens reservoir serve Cambridge and the south - east strategic reservoir near Oxford . this Government have come in with a purpose : to bring growth , and with it opportunity , to the country . in just six month , we have take the tough decision to make that possible . we be take on the responsibility of a Government who deliver real change for people — no long the hollow promise of the conservative party , but change deliver under this Labour Government , work with business and local leader to drive the growth that will lift up this country . now we must go far and fast so that the next generation and the generation after will have the opportunity they deserve , to ensure that Britain be strong and successful once again in a fast - change world and so that everybody in this country can have the chance to succeed . today ' s announcement will help make that a reality and show how our plan for change will build a well Britain . I commend the statement to the House . I call the shadow Chancellor of the Exchequer . the Chief Secretary tell we that growth be the no . 1 mission of this Government and add , " now we must go fast " , which I have to tell he suggest a certain lack of ambition . what we do not need be some hasty ma ñ ana moment of unquantified , vague promise of a well tomorrow ; we need action now to reverse the grievous damage that this Chancellor have work in just her first six month in office . why do the Government deliver a Budget that the independent Office for Budget Responsibility say would lead to low growth , high inflation and high interest rate and would cost job ? I have to tell the right hon . Gentleman that " go for growth " in the 2030 mean nothing to the business that have already stop hire , shed worker and put up price thank to labour ' s ruinous policy . it be hard to escape the conclusion that these announcement have be hastily cobble together by a Government who be under increase pressure to change course but be seemingly incapable of do so . why have these announcement come only now ? the Labour party have year in opposition and month in government lead up to its first Budget . if the Government really want to unleash investment , innovation and the private sector , they should not have decide in the autumn to increase substantially the tax burden and the size of the state . by do so , far from encourage private investment , they be actively squeeze it out . will the Chief Secretary to the Treasury reassure business right now that there will be no further growth - destroy fiscal measure in the spring statement , include tax rise ? be the truth not that the damage be already be do ? even before Labour ' s tax rise bite in April , the economy be flatline right now , so will any of the announcement have an impact within this Parliament , and what — if any — impact be they likely to have on the OBR ' s forecast in March ? incredibly , the Chancellor say in her speech that business be what drive growth and that the Government should support they , yet this be a Government who have drive business confidence off a cliff . they have tax business to the hilt and , through their upcoming employment legislation , will be hit they still far with ever more job - destroy red tape . can the Chief Secretary to the Treasury set out what the overall impact of government policy decision since July have be on regulatory cost for business ? do he agree with the Business Secretary ' s extraordinary utterance on the medium this morning that the Government have not hammer business ? the Chancellor claim this morning that she have see no alternative suggestion from the opposition , so let I give she one now . last year , the conservative manifesto include £ 12 billion in welfare saving . at the time , the Labour party say that the money simply be not there . now we be tell that the Government will shortly be come forward with plan for welfare reform — another damascene conversion . if they have grasp this issue when they come into office , they could have tackle the rise welfare bill , rather than tax job and kill growth . the Government ' s failure to act mean that business and million of people be pay the price , so can the Chief Secretary to the Treasury commit today to match that £ 12 billion , or can he at least tell we the scale of saving that we can expect from his promise reform ? some of the announcement make today be of course welcome . the role of the opposition be not to oppose for opposition ' s sake , not least because many of the measure announce be reheat from the previous Conservative Government . the plan on pension investment , for example , seem oddly familiar to we , probably because they be simply to continue the reform that I be bring in when I be Secretary of State for Work and Pensions . even in this area , though , we must wait and see before pass judgment , because this Government have show that we simply can not trust their word . they promise not to raise taxis , but they do . they promise not to cut winter fuel payment , but they do . they promise not to borrow more , but they do . we need to see action , not just word . the Chancellor talk about remove barrier to growth — oh yes , she talk about it — but that talk come from the same person whose Budget kill the economy and growth stone - dead . if we be look to remove the great barrier to growth in this country , perhaps we should start with the Prime Minister and the Chancellor of the Exchequer . the House be indebted to the shadow Chancellor — Mr Melmentum himself — for his lecture on the need for speed from this Government . let I tell he that we have do more in the last six or seven month than that lot do in the last 14 year . the shadow Chancellor ask I about our plan to work with business . the comment today from business leader and investor speak for themselves : our plan be welcome by business , and we will be work in partnership with they to deliver for this country . he also ask I about work . those of we in the Labour party make no secret of the fact that we like to support people into work — strong , secure work with workplace right and secure income to help make people ' s family finance add up . that be why our party be create in the first place . the real truth from the data be that under the last government , too many people be wait at home sick , unable to get NHS appointment or access to mental health service so that they could be help back into work . too many people be wait at home , wait for training and unable to seize the opportunity advertise in front of they . this Labour Government will not treat those thing as a luxury , but will work at speed to give people the work they deserve . at the heart of the shadow Chancellor ' s statement be a truth for the country to consider . under the last Administration , it be promise cancel ; under this Administration , it be promise be deliver . I call the Chair of the Treasury Committee . I welcome this Government ' s commitment to infrastructure investment and to tell the world that Britain be open for business , but to achieve all of this , we will need a really skilled workforce to deliver on those major construction project . may I ask my right hon . friend to set out how the Government will ensure that we have the skill to deliver what he have promise ? I thank the Chair of the Treasury Committee for her question . this be an important test of turn policy into real - world delivery . through our infrastructure and industrial strategy , we be engage right now with business and investor across the country so that as we bring forward our plan , we have a skill and training system that create opportunity for people to take up the job that we need they to do in order to help get Britain building . that will be a crucial part of our approach to infrastructure , so that every person across the country can seize the benefit of this Government ' s plan . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the Government be absolutely right to focus on economic growth , but their blinker approach on Europe be hold back british business and stifle the very growth that we need to fund our public service . by rule out negotiation with the EU on a bespoke customs union and a youth mobility scheme , the Chancellor ' s dash for growth will be more like a slow crawl in a car with the handbrake on . in order to turbocharge economic growth , will the Government start negotiate those initiative now ? to unleash growth through our small business , the Chancellor should scrap her national insurance contribution rise , and instead seek to raise the same amount of money through the measure that we Liberal Democrats have suggest : reverse the tax cut on the big bank , increase taxis on the big tech and gaming company , and reform capital gain tax in a way that would be fair and raise more money . will the Government look again at those alternative revenue raiser and lift the burden that the Government have place on small business ? on airport , the Chancellor have voice her support for Heathrow expansion and have suggest that expansion will be forthcoming for other airport . we Liberal Democrats oppose this , because it will deliver minimal growth at a huge cost to the climate . can the Government confirm whether they intend to abide by the advice of their own climate change adviser that no airport expansion should proceed until a UK - wide capacity management framework be in place ? in the midst of a climate emergency , can the Government give a cast - iron guarantee that the so - call refresh carbon budget that the Chancellor refer to will not water down climate target , and what do they have to say to those expert who say that sustainable aviation fuel be not realistic or scalable ? turn to the Oxford - Cambridge growth corridor , we really welcome plan that far boost the UK ' s position as a european and global science leader . can the Government confirm that there will be enough money for the whole of the route to be construct on the East West Rail route , and that they will work hand in glove with local authority to minimise the environmental impact , introduce infrastructure before or alongside housing , and maximise local community benefit ? as the hon . Lady know , this Government commit in their manifesto to not rejoin the single market or the custom union . we will honour that promise , but the trade deal that the previous Government put together be clearly not good enough . there be room for we to improve our trading , energy and security relationship with our friend in the European Union , and my ministerial colleague be in active discussion with their counterpart to take that work forward . the hon . Lady invite I to speculate on any future Budgets . that be above my pay grade , but I be sure the Chancellor hear her suggestion . on airport , as I say in my statement , all our plan will be in line with our legal obligation . of course , we recognise the need for more sustainable fuel and sustainable transport as part of those expansion plan . lastly , the hon . Lady ask I about something that I can not read — East West Rail . thank you . I think it be " EU " again — I could not read my own handwriting . the whole premise of the growth corridor be that we will have a transport spine through that corridor that allow for all the development — housing , lab space or community — around it . that be a crucial part of our plan , and we will make sure that it be deliver . I congratulate the Chief Secretary to the Treasury and the Chancellor of the Exchequer on a plan for growth that be both concrete — shovel in the ground now — and forward - look , build on our scientific and skill base to drive long - term job and high living standard . heathrow expansion will help business in the north - east , but for the sake of those of we who be not Manchester United fan , will the Chief Secretary to the Treasury make it clear that much of the investment in the Man U development will be private sector - base ? will he also set out how that will help the rest of the north , particularly Newcastle United fan such as myself ? I thank the Chair of the Science , Innovation and Technology Committee for her question . she and her Committee know the huge advantage we have in the UK with our brilliant university and research and development ecosystem , which be why we be support they and put rocket booster underneath their activity to develop world - lead and frontier research and innovation , and stimulate economic growth across the country . my hon . friend be right that the development in Manchester be a broad set of privately finance housing and commercial opportunity , as well as the work that Manchester United want to do with its football stadium . I should inform the House that I can not give a running commentary on the stadium application for all football club across the country , and she will have to forgive I for not know the late plan for Newcastle . I welcome the Government ' s conversion on a third runway at Heathrow . the sort of connectivity that that enable , particularly with fast - grow economy in Asia and the Gulf , be essential to growth . however , what assurance can the Chief Secretary to the Treasury give the House that this project will not subsequently be stymie by an absolutist approach drive by ideology towards carbon emission , which will drive it into the ground ? we have be down this path before . the right hon . Member have be down this path before because it be his Government who go down it and block all these development over the past 14 year . this government be work on reform to the planning system , look at national policy statement , think about skill and infrastructure supply chain , and unlock private capital because we be a Government who want to get Britain build again , and not block the project that be stall for year under the previous Administration . I call Dr Jeevun Sandher , a member of the Select Committee . investment be what make we more prosperous ; it produce more work , it get wage rise and it create good job . I be an East Midlands MP , and we have some of the low investment rate in the country , the least transport infrastructure and some of the low private investment . that be why I welcome the announcement today of £ 1 billion go to the manufacturing and logistic hub at East Midlands airport . I especially welcome the 2 , 000 extra job that will benefit my constituent in Loughborough , Shepshed and Hathern . will the Chief Secretary assure I that this be just the beginning of the investment we can expect in the region and for my constituent ? I thank my hon . friend , who be a strong advocate for the economy in the East Midlands and for his constituency . he will know that I visit the region last week and meet business and investor with our Mayor , Claire Ward . the region be do a brilliant job of secure inward investment , and there be huge untapped potential in the East Midlands . I be pleased that the Chancellor be able to make those announcement today , and we very much look forward to hear about more business case and more potential so that we can unlock growth in the East Midlands . I call Select Committee member Dame Harriett Baldwin . I be sure the Chief Secretary know and admire the plan for growth of Conservative - lead Worcestershire county council . it have be work through the plan , and it have build a new train station on the North Cotswold line , which connect Worcestershire to Oxford , but a lot of that line be still single track . will he urge the Oxford growth commission to look at the extensive work do by Oxfordshire county council and Worcestershire county council to find a way to double the frequency of the train service on that stretch of track ? I thank the hon . Lady . the growth commission will be look at all potential option for stimulate growth . we want to find strategic enable investment across the country to unlock , for example , house building and inward investment , and I be sure it will look at those proposal with interest . I call Select Committee member Rachel Blake . I thank the Chief Secretary for his statement about investment and growth . do he agree with I about the role that new town will play in tackle our country ' s housing crisis and how important it be that , alongside the home in the new town , we see the delivery of new social infrastructure ? can he outline how those plan will work ? I thank my hon . friend . as I inform the House recently , our infrastructure strategy , which will be publish in June , will for the first time align social infrastructure plan for school , GP surgery and other public service facility with those for housing and economic infrastructure . for the first time , we will be make strategic decision about the place where people live . on the house building target — I meet tenant who will be move into new social home in Erewash last week — we talk about 1 . 5 million home and about economic growth , but in every one of those building be someone ' s life , their opportunity and the dream they want to fulfil . this government be deliver on economic growth , and we be do so because the people at the heart of all these decision be the people we need to get the economy move and Britain do well in the future . I call Select Committee member John Glen . among the fundamental enabler of growth in the economy be financial service and open up market to invest . I think there be consensus across this House in the last Parliament on the Financial Services and Markets Act 2023 , which provide the framework to do that . what concrete proposal have come forward from the Financial Conduct Authority and the Prudential Regulation Authority consideration of change some of the restriction that stop the right level of investment ? this week , the Government enable about £ 100 billion of surplus fund from define - benefit pension scheme to be make available . what proportion of that money will be invest and in what timeframe ? the concern around these announcement be the delay to tangible , calculable economic impact . I point the right hon . member to the Chancellor ' s Mansion House speech , which set out in detail this government ' s approach to financial service . they be an important enabler for the UK and a particular strength globally , as I know he know very well . on his particular question , I will need to write to he with the answer , but he can see that this Government be take action to unlock investment in the UK economy . as have be report , the Prime Minister and the Chancellor have be meet regulator to make sure that they be gear for growth as well as for protect consumer . I also welcome the Chief Secretary ' s statement and the Chancellor ' s announcement about the many excellent transport scheme that this country so badly need . the Transport Committee will look at these proposal , start with the new proposal for runway 3 at Heathrow . he link that proposal to UK - wide growth , but do the Treasury consider the Department for Transport ' s 2020 figure predict that between 2010 and 2050 there would be a 24 % cut in flight between regional airport in the UK and Heathrow because of the way the market for slot at Heathrow operate , regardless of what regional airport might want ? I thank my hon . friend the Chair of the Transport Committee for her question . I think it allude to the fact that this be the announcement not just of a runway , but of a project which we must make sure be optimise for deliver growth for the whole of the United Kingdom , as I make clear in my statement . that mean that we need to work with regional airport and look at how the slot be allocate at Heathrow , to make sure that Heathrow ' s business model optimise opportunity for regional airport and the whole of the United Kingdom . that be a commitment that the Government have make very clear today . I call Select Committee member Bobby Dean . the whole House support a focus on growth , which be good for our prosperity and key to fund our public service . however , growth have not only a rate but a direction , and how we seek to achieve growth be about choice . if we choose to back measure that undermine our net zero target , we may be go for growth today with severe consequence for tomorrow . how do the Government justify their choice to back heathrow expansion over more sustainable rail transport project across the country ? I be sure the hon . member share my view that we can achieve growth through our net zero plan . these thing be not an either / or . for example , the announcement of this Government support investment in Heathrow and in the sustainable aviation fuel sector will stimulate investment in net zero technology and industry in the UK . this can be a win - win for the economy and the environment . I welcome my right hon . friend ' s statement , which I think demonstrate a real commitment by this Government to take the shackle off our economy . I particularly welcome his commitment to a 10 - year transport infrastructure plan . as well as the measure already announce to boost connectivity across the Pennines and elsewhere , will he commit to continue to see what can be do to address connectivity and capacity challenge north of Birmingham arise from the cancellation of HS2 ? those be exactly the issue that department be now consider as they submit bid to the Treasury in the spending review . as we move into those negotiation in March , we will have to look at the good growth potential and what we can get deliver on what timeframe . we will be able to confirm those plan in the come month . there be nothing in the statement about the low Thames crossing , which have already be delay twice by this Government . the crossing be one of the big infrastructure project and will have a huge impact on the entire country . for my constituent , the big issue around growth have be about the taxis on business — particularly on family company — and the job tax . why be the Government not address those real issue , which be not address in the statement ? the Chancellor will be disappoint that the right hon . Member do not listen to her speech . she announce today — [ interruption . ] we be in negotiation with the project leader at the low Thames crossing . we be committed to bring that forward and will have further announcement to make in due course . may I congratulate the Chief Secretary on his statement but add a word of caution about his plan for Heathrow ? will he ensure that there be a full cost - benefit analysis of any plan for a third runway which look at the cost to the climate , to public health and to the already saturate transport infrastructure ? almost 40 year of deal with Heathrow have teach I that what be good for Heathrow ' s shareholder be usually bad for its neighbour and for the climate , leave Government at all level pick up the cost and clean up the mess . I know that my hon . friend have be work on this issue for many year . as I have say , we want the Heathrow project to be a success for the whole country , and that mean in relation to sustainable low - carbon transport and connectivity as well as for local job and the local economy . as I say in the statement , as proposal be put forward by Heathrow , the Government will consider they in the normal way , in line with all our legal obligation . in November 2020 , when give evidence to the Treasury Committee , the head of the Office for Budget Responsibility , Richard Hughes , state that further investment in infrastructure such as extend airport capacity would not deliver high economic return as the UK be already highly connected . without a proposal on the table for Heathrow , how can the Chancellor be so sure that a third runway will drive high national economic growth ? we hear from business , investor , businesspeople , traveller and people who want to be able to come through London or the UK that we be lose trade and investment in comparison with other hub airport on mainland Europe . we have every opportunity to secure that here in the UK , and that will , by its very nature , secure investment , job and economic growth . the Chancellor highlight the redevelopment of Old Trafford in her speech , but similar investment be happen in Luton , where Power Court be set to be the new home of Luton Town football club . that mixed - use housing and commercial development will bring new opportunity and support the regeneration of our town . may I invite the Minister to join I on a visit to see how that will be a key driver of economic growth across Bedfordshire and the eastern region ? my hon . friend know that I be not let out of the Treasury often , but when I be I will be delighted to visit . these be classic example of how , by work together with private investor and local business to co - ordinate investment on road junction , rail , housing development or even football stadium , we can get to a point where we can unlock economic growth for people and improve their community . we be absolutely interested in look at all those opportunity . what assessment have the Treasury make of whether the increase in employer ' national insurance contribution will increase or decrease business investment ? the right hon . Member be invite I to speculate on the OBR forecast , which will be present to the House on 26 March . there be so much to be welcome in the statement , but sadly it have be taint by the decision on the third runway at Heathrow . when such a decision be make by the Government , it be important that there be full openness and transparency so that we can explain the Government ' s think to our constituent . will the Minister ensure that the paper that lead to this damascene conversion among some member of the Cabinet be publish openly , particularly those on how increase carbon emission will be tackle ; how we will meet our carbon capacity statement ; how agriculture in this country will be convert to meet the sustainable aviation fuel requirement ; how the noise contour will impact on so many more people — 2 million people ; how current emission will be tackle , as air pollution be already above the legal limit ; and how the 8 , 000 to 10 , 000 of my constituent will be rehouse when 4 , 000 property be demolish as a result of this decision ? as I have confirm to the House , we be invite application from Heathrow , which will be consider in the normal way . when those application have be receive and due diligence have be undertake , we will be able to report the detail that will answer the right hon . member ' s question . it say on the cover that this be about grow the UK economy , but the statement ' s substance be much more about grow the english economy . it have a pass reference to Wrexham and a nebulous acknowledgement that the Government will " build a pipeline of investable proposition … start with strategic partnership in the Glasgow city region " . will the Chief Secretary perhaps flesh out what that mean and , at the same time , explain why he do not allocate any funding to reimburse Edinburgh University for the supercomputer , invest in SAF in Grangemouth , or invest in the Acorn project in the north - east ? Scotland be an important part of our United Kingdom economy . we will continue to invest in the country , as we do at the recent Budget , with the large real - term increase in spending since devolution . I be always ear - open to opportunity for growth , but the hon . Member might want to speak to his SNP colleague in the Scottish Government and try to stimulate some investment there as well . I warmly welcome the plan for growth , which stand in stark contrast to the low - growth , low - wage and low - investment economy of the last 14 year , but as welcome as the Old Trafford development be , the House will know that I be a Dale fan . may I therefore urge the Treasury and Chief Secretary to warmly support the Atom Valley mayoral development zone , which be be push by Andy Burnham to help advanced manufacturing in Rochdale ? that sound like an excellent initiative that will benefit from the huge untapped potential in the Greater Manchester and regional economy , which we be try to stimulate with our announcement today . I would be delighted to meet my hon . friend in due course to understand more of the detail . the Chief Secretary say that he want economic growth to spread to every town , city and community — something we can all agree with . I have be campaign for many year to restore the direct train service between Cleethorpes , Grimsby and King ' s Cross . that would boost the local economy and be support by the Hull and Humber chamber of commerce , businesse up and down my constituency and , on the Government Benches , by my MP , the hon . member for Great Grimsby and Cleethorpes ( Melanie Onn ) . all that be need to provide the service at the next timetable change be the go - ahead from the Transport Secretary . will the Chief Secretary urge she to do just that ? I be sure that the Transport Secretary have hear the hon . member ' s request . as he will know from our announcement today and at the Budget , the investment that we seek to unlock in his region be a crucial part of our industrial plan , not least the investment in sustainable aviation fuel that I set out . if the transport project that he mention will unlock investment , housing and opportunity in the region , I be sure that we will look at it closely . I have consistently call for new investment in the eastern region , and nothing be more exciting than the proposal to build a Universal Studios theme park — the first of its kind in Europe — in Bedford . the project have huge potential to transform the region . will the Chief Secretary provide an update and reassure I that progress be be make on turn that plan into reality ? hopefully the Minister can meet that enthusiasm . I thank my hon . friend , who have campaign tirelessly for this investment in the region since he have be the House . as he will know , the Government be in negotiation with partner for the development . unfortunately , I can not update the House at this stage , but I look forward to do so in due course . as the MP for the dream spire , may I thank the Government for their vote of confidence in my constituent ' ability to deliver the growth that this country , and arguably the world , need ? I take umbrage with one thing . the Chief Secretary talk about the Oxford plan . give that the Chancellor give her speech not in Oxford city or its environ but in Eynsham , will he name the growth commission not the Oxford commission but the Oxfordshire commission ? will he meet I and my many liberal Democrat colleague , so that we can work with he to maximise the potential of the plan ? I thank the hon . Lady for her suggestion . it be not for I to get in the middle of boundary dispute , but I will take that back to the Treasury and see what we can do . as a United fan , I hugely welcome the economic and social benefit that the Old Trafford redevelopment could bring to the city of Salford . how will the Chief Secretary require those who be award contract to do all they can to employ , train and retain local people , and to ensure that that ethos be mirror across supply chain ? my hon . friend make an excellent point . these project have to benefit local community , local worker and local business , as well as other . there can be no great advocate of that approach than the Mayor of Greater Manchester . between his work and good office and the Government ' s approach to social value and procurement , I be sure that will be able to deliver that outcome . give that construction of the Oxford to Milton Keynes section of East West Rail be complete when Hugh Merriman , the last conservative rail Minister , pull the last rail clip into place , it be a bit rich of the Chief Secretary to try to claim credit for it . in one breath he say that he want to work in partnership with local leader , and in the next he reheat the idea of a top - down , government - know - good Ox - Cam arc , rebrande it the Oxford to Cambridge growth commission . local leader in Buckinghamshire have consistently say no to that top - down spatial strategy , choose instead to grow job locally , include at Westcott space cluster . do he really want to work with local leader in Buckinghamshire , or do he just want to tell they what to do ? the hon . member be what we call a blocker . that be not in the nature of this Government . we will get on and deliver . I welcome the Minister ' s statement on growth . do he agree that alongside upgrade transport infrastructure , we should create more home and infrastructure around exist commuter line , such as the Bolton - to - Manchester line in my constituency ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . in work on the plan for change ' s priority of 1 . 5 million new home , the Deputy Prime Minister have already identify that as a great opportunity for the Government . work with partner in Network Rail and elsewhere , we can unlock the land adjacent to exist infrastructure for new development . some of that be reference in the part of the Chancellor ' s speech about the Oxford - Cambridge growth corridor , but we be actively look at opportunity across the country as well . the Chief Secretary to the Treasury do a good job of name - check place across the country that might benefit from growth , except not once do he mention anywhere in the south - west . he be the Member for Bristol North West , so why be that ? do he have no confidence in the potential of the south - west ? will he redeem himself by visit Trowbridge , the county town of Wiltshire , and specifically the Tech Trowbridge initiative , which be try to create the condition for growth ? the Government might like to be involve in that . the right hon . Member be confused . I be enormously proud of my region of Bristol and the south - west , not least because of our heritage and the potential that we have to offer the country . the aerospace industry in north Bristol will benefit enormously from our announcement , which be great for worker and business in our region . he may be interested in an announcement from the national wealth fund today of investment in the cornish economy to get we mining again , so that we get the rare earth material that we need to fuel development in the UK and create the job and investment in the south - west that he ask for . barrier to growth be in place in this country for so long that I think they would be permanent , but we have a Government so committed to growth that they be tear they down daily , and I welcome that . I also welcome the pilot announce by the Office for Investment , which will benefit the Liverpool city region . it bring government and industry together to unlock private investment . how will that benefit my constituent in Wirral West ? today we have announce that the Office for Investment , which partner with foreign direct investment into the UK , will be give a line of sight to opportunity across the country , and not just to the large project that the Government be interested in on a particular day . work with mayor in our combined authority will be a great way to bring together a prospectus of investable proposition for investor across the country . let I reassure my hon . friend that the blocker to delivery be not permanent , because we vote they out at the last election . I be sure that the Chief Secretary will correct I if I be wrong , but the only three word about Scotland in his statement be " Glasgow city region " . they be welcome , but do he appreciate that while the Scottish Government may have receive its big settlement , every UK Government statement that have come out of this place since the general election have undermine support in Scotland for this Government ? in my city of Edinburgh , we be concerned that every statement on investment in AI and research leave we out . down the line , expansion at Heathrow will mean more air traffic over our city , and there be no emission management plan in place . will the Chief Secretary reassure my constituent that there be something in this for Edinburgh ? I be not sure I agree with the premise of the question . we do not seek to undermine Scotland , but to enable it , as an important part of the United Kingdom . that be why we have put significant money into the Scottish Government , why GB Energy will be base in Scotland , and why exciting plan on energy infrastructure have already be announce . I be sure there will be more to come , not least for Edinburgh , give its expertise in the technology space , which we be very aware of . I encourage the hon . Lady not to be so gloomy . we be here to support Scotland as much as England , Wales and Northern Ireland . after a decade and a half of dither by the Conservatives , who claim to be the good yet constrain the vital force of positive economic change , it fall to a Labour Government to unleash our country ' s potential , which require Government action in partnership with other . do my right hon . friend agree that in order to deliver the growth that our people need , we must block the blocker and vanquish vested interest , and that it be time , to coin a phrase , to build , baby , build ? I be pleased to announce to the House today the Government ' s commitment to build , baby , build . we will deliver that for this country . my hon . friend be right to point out the difference that a change in Government can make . this Labour Government be get on with the job of deal with planning regulation and blocker , bring forward investment and deliver for the country , whereas the conservative party promise the earth and deliver nothing . I call Dr Kieran Mullan — I assume you have a lot to say . away from Labour ' s rhetoric , I suspect that member on both side of this House be hear the reality from our constituent . on Friday , I visit Saxonwood care home in my constituency , and St Michael ' s hospice just across the border , which look after my constituent . I have also hear from Bexhill chamber of commerce , and they be all clear that Labour ' s planned national insurance rise will do enormous damage to their attempt to grow , and to employ people . do the Chief Secretary agree with the OBR ' s forecast that the job tax will harm growth , not help it ? as have be rehearse repeatedly on the Floor of the House , the Chancellor have to make difficult decision to get a grip on the public finance , give the state in which the hon . member ' s party leave this country . today ' s announcement make it very clear that business small and large and this Government share the ambition of deliver growth for the economy . that be why we be go far , fast in pursuit of that . make our economy work for people across this country be vital after 14 year of conservative mismanagement , but the New Economics Foundation have find that expand the UK ' s airport would not deliver serious economic growth . meanwhile , analysis by Carbon Brief show that offset expansion at Heathrow , Gatwick and Luton would require a forest twice the size of London . our climate goal would be in jeopardy . be it realistic to expand Heathrow and other airport and still meet our climate obligation ? be the risk to our future really worth it ? my hon . friend know that I have long be an advocate and campaigner for climate justice and our net zero plan , but I be clear that by work with partner and investor to unlock investment in the UK , we will also unlock investment in the net zero transition , and get the industry , the job and the capability that we need to deliver a net zero future . that will allow people across the country to do other thing that they want to do , such as go on holiday . as I listen to the Chief Secretary declare that this be all about put our country on a new path towards a bright future , I be remind of a wee song that we use to sing when we be child : " there be a happy land , but it ' s far , far away . " unfortunately , many of these project be long term . they will not be deliver even in the lifetime of this Parliament , and they will not offset the anti - growth policy that the Government have already announce , which be devastating industry . the Chief Secretary say that he want to deliver for people in every part of the country , but there be not one mention of a project in Northern Ireland , or any indication of what the Government will do with the anti - growth impact of the protocol and the Windsor framework . what be there in the statement for the people of Northern Ireland and for growth prospect in Northern Ireland ? we always get a bit grumpy as we get old , don ' t we , Madam Deputy Speaker ? but I agree with the right hon . gentleman : we should go back to our childhood and sing the song of that bright future that be ahead for all of we . it will cheer our spirit and lift the House as we look forward to the future with positivity . look , we have make announcement today that will benefit the Northern Ireland economy , not least in the aerospace , life science and pharmaceutical sector . on a recent visit to Northern Ireland , I hear about the business innovate and invest in these space , and they will benefit from the announcement today . as he know , the Government be in negotiation with our counterpart in Europe to improve trade barrier , which I be sure , in time , will benefit the Northern Ireland economy as well . it have be a joy to have apprentice from Rolls - Royce Submarines , in my constituency , in Parliament this week , especially in the wake of the £ 9 billion investment the Government make in Rolls - Royce last week . do the Chief Secretary agree that it be only by work with manufacturing company like Rolls - Royce that we will deliver the economic growth we badly need ? my hon . friend be exactly right . we need business to invest , train and employ , and to sell their good and service . the Government ' s partnership work with Rolls - Royce be a great example of how we have be able to unlock billion in investment not just for the region , but for its export around the world . whether it be the drastic reduction in business property relief and agricultural property relief , which will decimate many family business , or the increase in employer national insurance , which will negatively impact all business , include the GP surgery in Keighley that have tell I they be now decide to freeze recruitment , or the increase in the minimum wage or in business rate , or , perhaps , the Employment Rights Bill , which will cost business £ 45 billion a year , will the Chief Secretary to the Treasury say , in his statement on grow the economy , which of these measure he think will grow the economy most ? from the nature of his question , I be not sure the hon . Gentleman enjoy the statement today . look , there be lot of example today , both in this statement and in the Chancellor ' s commitment , that have stimulate investment and , as a consequence , will stimulate growth in the economy . the key question here be : be business see the UK as a place to invest , be they invest in the country , and be they build in Britain ? the answer be : yes , yes , and yes . we have today hear a full - throate commitment from the Treasury to the Teesside ' s sustainable aviation fuel industry . I thank the Treasury for listen to Teesside mps on the revenue certainty mechanism , which will unlock million of pound of investment in the industry from company such as Alfanar and Iogen . will the Chief Secretary deliver a message from the Dispatch Box to SAF investor the world over that Teesside be open for business ? I thank my hon . friend and all my hon . friend from the Teesside region , who have campaign hard for investment in their area . I visit the plant in question when I be Chair of the Business Committee in the former Parliament , and I remember clearly the company say how frustrating it be that the previous Government would not allow they to invest and grow the development of sustainable aviation fuel , but be instead allow it to be import at cost from other country . this government be take a different approach , which be unlock investment and job in Teesside , and across the country , in the interest of work people . I welcome the Chief Secretary ' s commitment to invest in my Oxfordshire constituency , and particularly in our science centre of Milton Park , Culham and Harwell campus . however , the commitment to the south east strategic reservoir option — SESRO — will be meet with far more question , give Thames Water ' s track record . on 15 January 2025 , in New Civil Engineer , a water engineer suggest that the reservoir ' s £ 2 . 2 billion cost could be much well spend tackle leak and reduce water demand and waste . will the Chief Secretary meet I to discuss these unanswered question about the reservoir ? the Environment Secretary , work with the regulator Ofwat , have agree the large investment in the water industry on record , with more than £ 100 billion over the year ahead to tackle issue with sewage and leak in the victorian infrastructure , and , crucially , for the first time in decade , to actually build a reservoir , which this country need . that be why it be important that we have announce those two plan today . they will , of course , go through the normal process , and I be sure he will be pay attention to that as they come forward . I enthusiastically welcome the Government ' s commitment to growth and commend they for take the difficult decision require to generate it . it be important that all part of our country benefit from the proceed of growth . in my capacity as a Leeds MP and chair of the all - party parliamentary group for Yorkshire and northern Lincolnshire , I ask the Chief Secretary how the national wealth fund and the strategic partnership in West Yorkshire will benefit my region through growth agreement and , crucially , share the proceed of growth . these partnership with the national wealth fund be crucial to ensure that local entrepreneur , business and investor have access to the service provide by the Government . too often , it be only people who know how the system work or who know the people involve who can get deal do , which mean that people , especially in the region , have historically low level of investment than company , in particular in London . that be why we want to ensure the door be open to entrepreneur and investor in area of high growth potential , include in Leeds , so they can get their business grow and deliver for the UK economy . it have be interesting listen to the statement on grow the UK economy , when everything the Labour Government have do so far be have the exact reverse effect . in Epping Forest , business and vital service be talk about job loss and a freeze in recruitment due to the job tax , while across the country , family farm and business be worried about their future , with the Government ' s heartless inheritance tax policy , child be have to move school and some independent school be have to close due to the punitive school fee policy . when will this Government admit they have get thing wrong and , for the sake of opportunity and growth , reverse their ill - judge policy ? just to reassure the hon . Gentleman , I will point to three thing he may wish to look at : in its long - term forecast , the OBR forecast growth increase in this country , unlike what he have say ; the International Monetary Fund have just upgrade the growth projection for the UK ; and PwC just release a report show that for the first time ever , the UK be the second most investable country in the world . I hope the hon . Gentleman welcome those thing . almost a decade ago , I have the interesting experience of work for the Labour party on aviation policy and , on Heathrow , the fundamental have not change . the exhaustion of that sovereign hub capacity be offshore our emission and be a stopper on growth in every part of the country . do the Chief Secretary agree that this decision be long overdue ? in respect of comment from those on the Opposition Front Bench , will the Chief Secretary also confirm that in the two month since the Budget , redundancy as notify by employer be down by 20 % compare with the same period under the previous Conservative Government ? well , I thank my hon . friend for come to the House today to inform we of those interesting statistic — I be sure Opposition Members be listen closely . he be right : behind the support for the plan for Heathrow come forward be not only that we think that we be lose investment and job to other country , but that we be offshore the emission of good be bring in from around the world via other place before they come the UK by other mean . that be why we think this plan be good for the country but can also be in line with our net zero commitment . as I say , those detail will be set out far in due course . it be hearten to hear the Chief Secretary talk about the importance of inclusive growth in every nation and region of the United Kingdom , and that regional growth will be hardwire into the comprehensive spending review and the Government ' s infrastructure plan . however , he will be aware that such promise have previously be make to area such as Ceredigion Preseli , but remain unfulfilled . will the Chief Secretary therefore explain what investment the people of mid and west Wales can expect to see under his Government ' s plan ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question and his campaigning on behalf of his constituent . as I be sure he will have see , the Government recently announce hundred of million of pound of inward investment for skill in the green economy in his side of Wales , in Pembrokeshire , where there be enormous potential both for onshore and offshore wind development , and train people to be able to build those bit of infrastructure . that be the first of what I be sure will be many announcement to benefit his constituent . rise — order . if member ' question be short and if the answer be to the point , I will do my good to get everybody in . to show we how it be do , I invite Kanishka Narayan . Harold Wilson say : " the only human institution which reject progress be the cemetery . " today , we can add to that the Tory party . will the Chief Secretary ditch that Tory past , seize the spirit of Wilson and bring the white heat of technology back to Britain ' s shore , include an AI growth zone in the Vale of Glamorgan ? Pithy , Madam Deputy Speaker ! yes , I completely endorse my hon . friend ' s question . he know very well that in the technology space there be huge opportunity for investment in the UK . our AI investment zone announcement will be the first of many such announcement in the year ahead . I thank my constituency neighbour , the hon . member for Bedford ( Mohammad Yasin ) , for campaign so tirelessly to bring Universal Studios to my constituency . constituent in Mid Bedfordshire and across the country will be surprised not to hear the government back Universal Studios . will the Minister confirm when he intend to conclude negotiation with Universal Studios and come back to the House with an update ? I be afraid I can not give the hon . Gentleman a date , because negotiation be , as he will know , negotiation . they be ongoing , but I be hopeful that we will be able to come back shortly with update to show that we be able to deliver deal much fast than his party , when it be last in government . I thank Ministers , on behalf of Dartford resident , for the announcement from the Chancellor this morning that the low Thames crossing be get the green light from the Government . that will unlock growth across the UK economy , the Thames estuary and Kent itself , as well as relieve the misery Dartford resident currently experience at the Dartford crossing . be the Chief Secretary to the Treasury able to update resident on what work the Treasury be do to pull the private finance package together to make it a reality ? I support my hon . friend ' s encourage word on the Chancellor ' s announcement on the low Thames crossing . the Treasury be work with the Department for Transport and the project leader for the low Thames crossing , and I suspect we will have more to say in the come month . the Chief Secretary to the Treasury articulate a vision whereby the Government be commit to facilitate business investment , generate job and opportunity . however , I would welcome his comment on what the Government be do to support small business which form the backbone of our economy , especially in my constituency where we have over 600 small business . as the hon . Member will know , at the Budget , in our design of the national insurance contribution scheme for employer , we protect small business to ensure that over 50 % of business will pay either the same as they do before or less than they do before in employer national insurance contribution . that be in addition to a permanent discount on business rate for retail business on the high street , many of whom will be small business of the nature he refer to in his question . do my right hon . friend agree that today ' s announcement on Heathrow send a serious signal to international investor , trade partner and scottish exporter — for example , many ten of thousand of tonne of scottish salmon go through Heathrow every year — that the Government will choose growth ? do he agree that , unlike the conservative party and the gloom and doom from the SNP , we will bring growth to the scottish economy ? I absolutely agree with my hon . friend . this be a Government who be willing to act in the interest of the UK economy . investor around the world be take note , as the Chancellor hear at Davos . they know that Britain be back , Britain want to build and we be here to do business . I thank the Chief Secretary to the Treasury for his truly encouraging statement . I would be churlish to say anything other than well do . however , as he will know , we have an issue in Northern Ireland . economic output increase in Northern Ireland by 8 . 1 % above 2019 pre - pandemic level , but we be not yet close to our potential . an important factor in business growth be confidence . however , there be an obstacle . will he outline how business in Northern Ireland can be confident , when we be still entangle in the protocol - supply red tape that prevent good deal and hamper small and medium - sized business throughout the Province ? we share the hon . member ' s ambition for the Northern Ireland economy and the people of Northern Ireland . we continue to work with they to unleash that potential . in respect of our trading relationship with the EU , Ministers be in active discussion right now . I have the pleasure of welcome the Minister to my constituency at the weekend . will he outline how the national wealth fund will establish partnership in region such as Essex , include in my constituency ? I thank my hon . friend . as he have see from announcement today , but also from our ambition for the country more generally , we be on the hunt for growth opportunity , wherever they may be . we work in partnership with business investor to unleash their potential to generate great job , business and innovation for UK plc in every region of the nation . I look forward to work with he and his friend in the region to ensure that that come to his constituency too . I be proud to set up the labour growth group , now ably chair by colleague , to demonstrate that we on the Labour Benches be the party of builder , not blocker . I be strike to hear the Leader of the opposition say it herself today : she say , almost mockingly , that the Conservatives could have take all the decision the Chancellor make today , but they do not . do the Chief Secretary to the Treasury agree that that about sum it up ? in the end , they always put their party management before the national interest . I thank my hon . friend for his leadership of the labour growth group , which show that from the Back Benches all the way through to the Front Bench , this Labour party in government be commit to stimulate growth in the economy in the interest of work people , unlike the conservative party which just argue with itself for year and fail the people . yesterday evening , I have the privilege of meet some leader of our ceramics industry , a vital sector that be grossly neglect by the previous Conservative Government . do my right hon . friend agree that our heavy industry , such as metal and chemical , be where the UK have a competitive advantage , can attract international investment , and can deliver the growth in job that people vote for in place from Stoke to Stockton ? those sector be important not just for UK plc , but for community such as my hon . friend ' s . it be right that we support those business and the worker in those industry to develop opportunity to grow and invest , as well as to work through the transition require to ensure that they be sustainable for the future . that be exactly what the Government will be do . for 14 year the Conservatives ignore the economic need of community across the Hexham constituency , include the Tyne valley . business and young people in my constituency be desperate to grow , invest and remain there . will my right hon . friend agree to come to my constituency and meet business to see the growth opportunity in the Tyne valley ? I have a grow list of invitation , Madam Deputy Speaker . I look forward , if my diary manager allow I , to go to my hon . friend ' s constituency . he will know that the transport connectivity and the house build target in our plan for growth be crucial to ensure that people be able to seize opportunity where they be from , without necessarily have to leave where they be from and find opportunity elsewhere in the country . that be what inclusive growth look like . will the Chief Secretary to the Treasury please confirm that the development consent order have not yet be grant for the low Thames crossing , and that it will not necessarily go ahead without mitigation and protection for the resident in Gravesham , such as on local air quality issue , skill and training hub in Gravesham , free and discount travel for Gravesham resident , and the impact on the local road ? will those issue absolutely be consider go forward , and will he meet I to discuss they ? I would be delighted to meet my hon . friend , who be do a brilliant job , as the local MP , to ensure that these project be do properly . I can confirm that , of course , all appropriate process , include on the development consent order , will be undertake in due course . the Minister and the Chancellor be absolutely right that more growth mean more pound in people ' s pocket , which be exactly what we be elect to deliver and what the Conservatives fail to do for year and year . the west midland be a car manufacture heartland and I be delighted about the big investment today in electric vehicle infrastructure . will the Minister say more about how it will be great for EVs , great for the green transition and brilliant for the people of the west midland ? I thank my hon . friend for her excellent question and for highlight the important role the west midland play in our important automotive sector . as the House know , we want to transition over time to electric vehicle . that mean invest in job , skill , industrial capacity and , crucially , bring down the cost of EVs , include the charge infrastructure that people rely on . that be what our announcement today will help to do . I welcome the Government ' s announcement today , in particular on the Oxford - Cambridge growth corridor . Cambridgeshire and Peterborough be an economic powerhouse for our country . what we often find be that spin - out business from Cambridge look to move to Peterborough as they grow , because of our expertise in advanced manufacturing and logistic . do the Chief Secretary agree that , with the benefit the growth corridor will bring , it be also vital that we bring in the expertise from Peterborough and utilise the increase transport connectivity to do that ? I thank my hon . friend , who be absolutely right . the growth corridor be an important enabler not just for development along the railway , but for the whole region , as we see from other country that get such project right — for example , the Chancellor refer to silicon valley — where the opportunity for the broad region be make available . I be sure they will be available to the people of Peterborough , too . Newcastle International airport , locate both in my constituency and in that of my hon . friend the Member for Hexham ( Joe Morris ) , be crucial for connect business and people in the north - east to the rest of the world , often by fly via other hub airport . do the Minister agree that increase capacity at Heathrow will provide vital opportunity for the north - east , boost economic growth for the entire country ? and while he be visit the Tyne valley , if he want to pop over and see what be recently award the title of the world ' s good airport , we would give he a great welcome . I congratulate my hon . friend on her airport and look forward to see it in due course . the premise of her question be entirely right : if business be to export , they need to be able to send their good , and if they can not get slot at Heathrow to enable those good to be distribute around the world , they will just not be able to do business . this government will unlock that opportunity for they , and I look forward to the potential that it will bring to her constituency and the region . be it not the case that this Government have , to coin a phrase , a " build , baby , build " approach — as , indeed , have be confirm by my right hon . friend — unlike the blocker on the opposite Benches ? can my right hon . Friend also confirm that there be an active private sector interest in the low Thames crossing , and will he give we a timetable for its progress as soon as possible for the benefit of those live in Kent and Essex ? I have to confess that " build , baby , build " be not include in the " line to take " this morning , but perhaps it be now . my hon . Friend ask about private capital . we know that there be an enormous amount of interest in invest in the UK , so long as we can show that we can deliver and get thing do , and we be work actively with partner to do just that . More detail will be confirm in the spending review and the infrastructure strategy early in June . I welcome the statement and congratulate my right hon . friend on it , but may I ask he for some reassurance ? when we be look at strategy for logistic , will we consider the importance of our port , adopt a proper national strategy for make the most of they , and ensure that our coastal community can be part of that growth strategy and that our economy be rebalance towards those community ? my hon . friend be absolutely right ; our port play a really important role in the UK economy — I declare an interest in respect of my own constituency . she will , I be sure , have welcome initial Government investment in our port , not just for trade and logistic but for our ability to deliver infrastructure — for example , in float offshore wind . I know that the Government have more plan in this area , and more announcement will be make soon . I be very pleased to hear about the ambition for the Oxford - Cambridge growth corridor , which will create great opportunity for my constituent . I be particularly pleased to note the emphasis on infrastructure , include the East - West Rail link , and I would love to see a rail link from Aylesbury to Milton Keynes and on to East West Rail in due course . do the Chief Secretary agree that good transport infrastructure of this kind be critical to grow our economy ? my hon . friend be absolutely right ; both mass transit within city region and intercity connectivity link people with job and opportunity , which be why it be a crucial part of our growth mission . we will give further detail later this year of how we will unlock investment in the sector and provide job for people throughout the country . for too long we have be hold back by the Conservatives ' dither , delay and indecision over Heathrow expansion . a third runway will strengthen Heathrow ' s hub status and make it easy for scot to connect to the world and bring tourist to our shore . increase connectivity will also make it easy for scottish exporter of world - class product such as Aberdeen Angus beef , Orkney seafood and Glenmorangie and Ardbeg whisky — bottle in my constituency — to grow their business . do the Chief Secretary agree that what have be announce today will be significant for my Livingston constituent , as well as grow our economy right across the United Kingdom ? my hon . friend make an excellent case for the positive impact that this will have on the scottish economy and the important role that it play in our United Kingdom economy in respect of growth across every nation and region . it be a nice contrast , might I say , with voice opposite that be talk down the potential for Scotland — unlike this Government , who be deliver the potential for Scotland . the manufacturer Alexander Dennis proudly build innovative british electric bus in Scarborough — I think this might be a case of a " build , baby , build british bus . " do the Chief Secretary agree that british manufacturing and buy british good be key to our economic growth ? my hon . friend be right , and she be a great advocate for business in her constituency . she will know that Mayors in the UK , for example , have commit themselves to buy electric bus from british manufacturer , and we will be work with mayoral authority in the year ahead to ensure that we can do more of that , not less . it be good to hear the Chief Secretary and the Chancellor talk about remove barrier to growth , but in Gateshead we have a literal barrier to growth : 400 tonne of concrete in the Gateshead flyover , which be currently close because it be unsafe . as yet the money to replace this have not be forthcoming , even though it would unlock housing and the redevelopment of Gateshead ' s town centre . can the Chief Secretary assure I that project of this kind , in Gateshead and across the country , will be prioritise as a way of unlock further growth in the economy ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that case . let I encourage he to write to the Transport Secretary and copy I into his correspondence , so that we can look at the detail and consider it far . official tell the Public Accounts Committee on Monday that nutrient neutrality rule be block the creation of new prison space , and the same rule be block the building of 150 , 000 home . will the Chief Secretary commit to speed up the Government ' s review of those rule ? I thank my hon . friend for his question and congratulate he on his upcoming paternity leave . he know that the Government be commit to protect the environment but also to cut red tape . we have show that that can be do in a win - win way , through the nature fund announce by the Environment Secretary recently . we will be do further work on this issue in the come month to ensure that we can deliver for Britain and for the natural economy . the Chief Secretary have be on his foot for nearly an hour and a half . he have a long visit list , and obviously he will want to visit Sussex Weald first and foremost . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . yesterday , during Justice question , the Prime Minister ' s parliamentary Private Secretary , the hon . member for Blaydon and Consett ( Liz Twist ) , raise the subject of the Government ' s response to the horrific attack in Southport . the Government ' s response be lead by the Prime Minister at the time . may I seek your guidance on the question of pps of Prime Ministers and other Ministers raise issue that correspond directly with their Ministers ' area of competence , and on what I can do to ensure that the Speaker ' s Office provide further clarity for pps so that they do not inadvertently speak in the House about issue that they should not be raise ? in this case in particular , give that the Prime Minister have face particular criticism , some member may have feel that his own PPS be try to talk up his record in response to the situation . I thank the right hon . member for give advance notice to the hon . member for Blaydon and Consett and to the Chair that he wish to raise this matter about the ministerial code . he should note , however , that this be not a matter for the Chair . Pavement Parking Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to amend the law relate to parking on verge and footway in England outside of Greater London and in Wales . the Bill would give local authority power to enforce against anti - social and hazardous pavement parking , and associate power to enforce against obstructive parking of rental micromobility device , include e - scooter and e - bike . across much of the country , car block pavement be one of the most common problem face by pedestrian . pavement parking can be especially dangerous for wheelchair user and those use other mobility device , people with pushchair and young child , and people with sight loss , like I , who can be force into the road with traffic that they can not see . Helen , a guide dog owner , describe the impact of pavement parking when she come to Parliament to speak on the issue at the end of last year : " my life hinge on my ability to trust in the safety of my surrounding , but when pavement parking obstruct the path , it rob I of my independence , confidence , and my trust in the world around I . each time my trusted path be block , I lose a little more of my autonomy . " Helen be not alone . accord to research conduct by the charity Guide Dogs , four out of five blind or partially sight people say that pavement parking make it difficult to walk on the pavement at least once a week , and nearly 95 % of people live with sight loss have be force to walk in the road owe to vehicle park on pavement . that number rise to 99 % for wheelchair or mobility scooter user . as well as cause an obstruction , car park on pavement damage the surface , create trip hazard , and one in five people with sight loss say they have be injure as a result . however , it do not have to be this way . in London , a law prohibit pavement parking have be in place since 1974 . progress have also be make in Scotland , where the Transport ( Scotland ) Act 2019 enable local council to enforce against pavement parking . so while progress have be make in some part of the country , in many other pavement parking continue . my constituent Kimberley speak of the contrast when travel outside London : " I don ' t encounter much pavement parking in London … but when I visit family elsewhere it be a different story . People park everywhere , and don ' t leave enough space for I , my guide dog and my young son to pass . it mean we have to step out into busy road … I have to concentrate to make sure none of we get run over . " while we should commend the progress make on pavement parking in London , increasingly we be see abandon rental e - scooter and e - bike obstruct pavement . that remain a problem in my constituency . this Bill would increase the power of local authority to introduce penalty for operator and rider of e - bike and e - scooter leave on pavement . it would replicate the exist offence of park heavy good vehicle on pavement or kerb , and extend it to all motor vehicle . civil enforcement officer could actually enforce that . although it have long be a specific offence to drive on pavement outside London and Scotland , it be not a specific offence to park on pavement in most circumstance . that be reflect in highway code rule 244 , which state : " you must not park partially or wholly on the pavement in London , and should not do so elsewhere unless sign permit it . " civil traffic enforcement be possible in some limited case , such as for parking over drop kerb or adjacent to double yellow line , but in most case local traffic warden do not actually have power to act . council can use traffic regulation order or install physical barrier to prevent pavement parking , but tro be not design to be use to cover wide area and require considerable signage and street marking , make their widespread use expensive . in some case , car block pavement can be consider an obstruction under the Highways Act 1980 . however , as this be a criminal offence , it can be enforce only by police . give the lack of a clear definition of what constitute an obstruction , and the lack of police resource , rely on police enforcement have not prove effective . there be a clear need for a law that bring the rest of England in line with London and Scotland . council need to be empower to take action , as they know their area well . this Bill would give they the flexibility to create limited exemption in response to consultation with their local community . a change in the law have widespread support , include from over 65 % of the public and 74 % of councillor in England . sustran , Guide Dogs , Living Streets , Transport for all , the Royal National Institute of Blind People and the Thomas Pocklington Trust all support a new law . this morning , I be delighted to join a group of campaigner in support an open letter , sign by almost 20 , 000 people , that urge party leader to support a change in the law . this be not a new debate ; indeed , the measure introduce in London in 1974 be originally intend to apply to the rest of the country . in 2020 , the then Conservative Government consult on tackle pavement parking . that consultation consider a range of option , but today mark 1 , 530 day since it close . indeed , on 8 February last year , I call on the then Government to get on and publish their response . I welcome the Roads Minister ' s commitment that this Government be look at all option and will come forward with a response to the consultation in due course , and I look forward to work with she on that . I understand that she be due to meet some of the charity and group campaign on this issue , and I know that they hope to speak to she before any final decision be make . I also welcome the reference to pavement parking in the White Paper on the english devolution Bill , and the consideration of licensing for micro - mobility device . however , there need to be an explicit commitment , and a clear timetable , to address these problem . the Government be rightly commit to deliver record investment in infrastructure and transport project , but it be important that we get the fundamental right and make sure that our street be safe for everyone . pavement parking prevent many people from live their life , work , socialise , take their child to school or get to a vital appointment , and that have to change . we have clear evidence that law like this can and do work , and I urge the House to support this Bill . question put and agree to . order , that Marsha De Cordova , Kate Osamor , Steve Darling , Jim Shannon , Daniel Francis , Shockat Adam , Martin Vickers , Dr Scott Arthur , Jen Craft , Florence Eshalomi , Rosie Duffield and Dr Rosena Allin - Khan present the Bill . Marsha De Cordova accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 16 May , and to be print ( Bill 170 ) . arbitration Bill [ Lords ] second reading I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . I be pleased to be open this second Reading debate on the Government ' s Arbitration Bill . this legislation be a direct response to recommendation make by the Law Commission of England and Wales in its report on arbitral reform , publish in September 2023 . if enact , the Bill will make targeted reform to the Arbitration Act 1996 , which govern arbitration in England , Wales and Northern Ireland . Scotland have its own devolve arbitral framework under the Arbitration ( Scotland ) Act 2010 , which this Bill will not affect . arbitration be a major area of business activity . for example , the Chartered Institute of Arbitrators , headquarter in London , have more than 17 , 000 member across 149 country . as the House will know , arbitration be greatly value by individual and business alike as an alternative to go to court , give party the ability to appoint a private tribunal to resolve dispute by issue a binding and enforceable award . for example , when party enter into a commercial contract , it be common to find a clause that provide that any dispute will be resolve through arbitration in this great capital city of London , rather than through litigation in court . that be often true even where a contract have no other connection to the UK , such be the prestige of arbitration here . furthermore , thank to an international convention commonly call the New York convention , which date from 1958 , arbitration award make in the UK can be enforce anywhere in the world . study suggest that such enforcement be often fast and more reliable than seek to enforce court judgment . the New York convention may date from 1958 , but arbitration have be a feature of our justice system for century . arbitration be a common way of settle dispute back in Anglo - Saxon time . it be largely a public affair , with enforcement through community pressure . by Norman time , party could choose their arbitrator , someone know to both side and well place to facilitate a reconciliation . in the 14th century — [ interruption . ] the Opposition spokesman , the hon . member for Bexhill and Battle ( Dr Mullan ) , be enjoy my little canter through the historical background , which I be sure the mass attendance this afternoon be also enjoy . in the 14th century , the mayor and aldermen of London set up , in effect , an arbitration centre here in this great city . this also provide service to foreign trader whose dispute have no other connection to England . arbitration then grow in Elizabethan time , and by the mid - 18th century arbitration clause be very common , as be professional arbitrator . it be say that our first arbitration Act , the Arbitration Act 1698 , be single - handedly draft by the famous political philosopher John Locke after he have be task by the then Board of Trade to devise a scheme that would help merchant to reach a satisfactory settlement of their dispute . John Locke ' s arbitral framework fit on one or two side of paper , which be a real achievement , be it not ? if only we could emulate that today , but thing have get more complicated and therefore more precise . arbitration have come a long way since then , though we salute John Locke and his effort in set we on this journey . today , arbitration happen in a very wide range of setting , from rent review through commodity trade and shipping to international commercial contract and investor claim against state . in each instance , it enable party to resolve the dispute at hand and move on from it . the party can choose a neutral venue to resolve their dispute . they can choose trust arbitrator or arbitral institution to preside over the proceeding . I add with emphasis that some of the world ' s lead trade and arbitral institution be headquarter here in London . I may have mention that before , but we need to be proud of it . they range from the aforementioned Chartered Institute of Arbitrators and the London Court of International Arbitration to important specialist organisation concern with matter such as shipping and trade in grain , oil and sugar . party can tailor the arbitration process to their own need , which result in an award that be internationally enforceable . at the same time , the process be respect for its integrity — at least , that be the position here in the UK , thank in large measure to the regulation of arbitration through the Arbitration Act 1996 . the Act ensure that arbitration be conduct in a way that be impartial , fair and without unnecessary cost and delay . the english court , which command much respect worldwide , retain a supervisory jurisdiction . build on its extensive history of arbitration , and thank to its legislative framework , London have become the world ' s lead destination for international arbitration . it be highly respect as a neutral venue for resolve dispute across the world , something in which we all rightly take immense pride . in fact , the Law Commission estimate that at least 5 , 000 arbitration take place in England and Wales each year , directly contribute at least £ 2 . 5 billion a year to our economy in fee alone . so arbitration and the Bill be part of our growth agenda for our great country . however , as arbitration be a largely private affair , we may speculate that its direct value be likely to be even great than that £ 2 . 5 billion . arbitration be also an important offering in our country ' s international business package , one that include legal service , banking , insurance and trade . it be a great advantage of our jurisdiction that business can be do here in the knowledge that when legal dispute arise , they can be resolve swiftly and fairly . we enjoy a worldwide reputation for the quality , independence and ethic of our legal profession . it be therefore no surprise that arbitration here in London be a showcase for that , or that it be very much in demand . give that the Arbitration Act 1996 be approach 30 year of age , the previous Government rightly ask the Law Commission to undertake a thorough review of the legislation back in 2021 . it be task with determine whether the 1996 Act require amendment to reflect modern practice and maintain its effectiveness in a grow global market when compete jurisdiction have already update their own arbitral framework . the Law Commission be painstaking in its review , carry out the commission give to it by the previous Government , and I pay tribute to the member of the Law Commission for their painstaking work on this matter , from which we all benefit . an initial consultation paper be publish in September 2022 . it lay out the Law Commission ' s analysis of the law as it stand and propose a small number of area for reform . that consultation receive response from abroad and from an expert base of consultee include individual practitioner , academic , specialist body and international firm and institution , as well as from our judiciary . take this feedback on board , the Law Commission refine its proposal and publish a second consultation paper in March 2023 . after yet another round of engagement , final proposal and a draft Bill be publish in September 2023 . as I say , this process have be painstaking and thorough , and we need to credit everybody involve , include the Conservatives for their leadership of the process during that time . it be a testament to the longevity and flexibility of our arbitral framework that only target update be recommend , with the Law Commission conclude that while some modernisation of the 1996 Act be need and desirable , root and branch reform be not . and it be testament to the Law Commission ' s thorough consultation that the Bill command such support in the arbitral and legal sector . I can not resist add that the work have be watch carefully by our competitor jurisdiction abroad . the Law Commission ' s report be cite by the Singapore court of its own initiative , and in the last few month , see the positive development here , France have announce a need to review its own arbitration law . we lead the way , and this Bill will ensure that we stay ahead . as hon . and right hon . member will be aware , the previous Government introduce an Arbitration Bill in 2023 that also seek to implement the Law Commission ' s recommendation . that Bill have make its way through Committee in the other place when Parliament be dissolve for the general election . the legal sector be emphatic in express the view that the propose reform be vital for update the arbitral framework and make sure that our jurisdiction remain competitive . we be first in global class on arbitration , and this Bill will ensure that we stay first in global class . the Government agree wholeheartedly with the legal sector ' s view , not least because of our commitment to foster economic growth in our country . as such , this Bill be introduce in the other place at the very early opportunity in July 2024 , as one of the first act of this government after the general election . I be pleased to see the Bill finally arrive in this House , as I be sure you be , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be worth say that the 1996 Act boast some key strength . it provide flexible procedure that allow party to shape proceeding to well suit they . party can , for example , arbitrate their dispute with one of our jurisdiction ' s many world - lead arbitral institution , which have develop procedure that party trust will deliver a fair and timely outcome . our current framework also permit effective recourse to our court , where need . party can request that our court determine a preliminary matter in the arbitration , such as jurisdiction , or later challenge an award produce by arbitration . arbitrator can similarly apply to the court to assist their proceeding , such as by enforce their order . at the same time , the regime of court support be carefully balance to prevent party from drag their foot and re - litigate case . this give party huge confidence that arbitration take place in our jurisdiction be both efficient and fair . many of this Bill ' s reform be design to build on the strength of the 1996 Act . I will now go through the key clause , because I can tell that member be deeply interested in check through the detail so that , should we move to a vote , we know exactly what we be vote on . quite right . I be pleased to see the Opposition spokesman give I a willing eye of encouragement , for which I be duly grateful . I start at the beginning . clause 1 will make it much simple to determine what law apply to an arbitration agreement . currently , the rule for identify the governing law be find in the common law and a recent Supreme Court decision . that decision show both immense learning and the complexity of the current approach . the Supreme Court be split in its judgment , and its approach be different from that of the Court of Appeal , which use an approach different from that at first instance . instead , to make the law clear and more predictable , clause 1 provide that the govern law will align with the legal location — that is , the seat — of the arbitration by default . this will ensure that arbitration , where seat in England and Wales and Northern Ireland , will be fully support by our law , which be among the most supportive of arbitration globally . clause 2 codify a duty for arbitrator to disclose circumstance that may cause doubt as to their impartiality . this will codify the common law and align domestic law with international good practice , such as the United Nations Commission on International Trade Law model law , which our expert lawyer have a major hand in draft . the model law ' s influence can be find in other jurisdiction as far apart as Scotland and Switzerland . it will promote trust in arbitration by promote trust in the integrity and impartiality of arbitrator . clause 3 and , in the interest of briskness , clause 4 will support arbitrator in make impartial and proper decision by extend their immunity against liability when they resign for good reason or be remove for no fault of their own . this will support arbitrator to make robust and impartial decision without fear . clause 5 clarify the two pathway for a party that want to challenge the jurisdiction of the arbitrator — that want to question whether the dispute should be arbitrate at all . the party can either apply to the court for an early ruling , or it can wait until the award be issue and then go to court . clause 5 clarifie that it can not do both . it be either / or . clause 6 ensure that , where arbitrator agree that they should not be hear a dispute after all , they can still award the cost incur up to that point against the party that generate those cost . clause 7 will allow arbitrator to adopt expedite procedure to dispense with issue that have no real prospect of success . this align with summary judgment available in court proceeding and will make arbitration more efficient . we move seamlessly to clause 8 , which will help emergency arbitrator . emergency arbitrator be appoint on a temporary basis while a full tribunal be be establish — that process can sometimes take week . they be , therefore , very important to arbitration . they be often task with vital preliminary matter , such as preserve evidence or asset , and be important to ensure that arbitration can proceed smoothly . as the practice of emergency arbitrator post - date the 1996 Act , our framework do not make explicit provision for they , so look again give we an opportunity to examine their role . clause 8 empower emergency arbitrator to handle urgent matter well and ensure compliance with their direction by equip they with final order and court enforcement . that will give emergency arbitrator the same pathway to enforce their order as other arbitrator , and will enhance their effectiveness . clause 9 provide that court order make in support of arbitral proceeding can be make against third party , which align with the position in court proceeding . for example , it would enable a party to arbitration to get an order freeze asset hold by a third party , such as a bank . clause 10 ensure that when a party challenge an arbitral award at court , the court have the full range of remedy available , regardless of the pathway . this clause iron out discrepancy that court and practitioner have otherwise seek to work around . clause 11 provide more efficient court challenge to the tribunal jurisdiction through rule of court that would prohibit repeat evidence and argument already debate in front of the tribunal . that will avoid such challenge become full re - hearing , reduce cost and delay . I can deal with clause 12 pretty quickly , you will be pleased to know , Madam Deputy Speaker . clause 12 ensure that the time limit for challenge award be consistent across the Act . clause 13 correct a rare example of a drafting error . what the Act mean to say be that court order could be appeal , but in some case there would be restriction . what it actually say be that court order could be appeal only where there be restriction . to its credit , the Judicial Committee of the House of Lords spot this error and interpret the statute as it be mean to be read . we have take this opportunity to correct the drafting to reflect the judicial ruling , as a useful bit of tidy up . clause 14 streamline the requirement for apply to court to obtain preliminary ruling from the court on question of law , or on whether the arbitrator have jurisdiction to hear the dispute . early ruling , such as those from expert judge , can save time and cost . I be get towards the end of go through the clause . in fact , I have come to the last and final clause that I wish to comment upon , clause 15 , as you have probably work out , Madam Deputy Speaker , because that usually come after clause 14 . [ laughter . ] there be no clause 16 , so clause 15 be the final clause . [ Official Report , 4 February 2025 ; Vol . 761 , c . 5wc . ] ( Correction ) clause 15 repeal provision that be never bring into force , simply to tidy up the Act . those provision would have mean slight difference in approach between domestic arbitration and international arbitration . in the event , they be never use or need , never bring into force and there remain no demand for they . our arbitration law be first class and apply equally to domestic and international arbitration , so remove the provision be a helpful way to tidy thing up . in sum , the Bill will greatly approve the arbitral process in our jurisdiction and far cement our position as a top global business destination , where legal dispute can be resolve fairly and quickly . the Bill have already go through the other place , where it receive considerable examination and support from noble and learn member , include many experienced arbitrator . there be , apparently , a lot of experienced arbitrator in the other place , and they bring their knowledge , experience and expertise to the debate , for which we be very grateful . indeed , I emphasise that the Bill have be review by member of the other place not once , but twice . the first time , scrutiny be provide by a Committee , lead by the noble and learn Lord Thomas of Cwmgiedd , that take further evidence from expert stakeholder . the several technical improvement make to the previous Bill because of that work be retain in this Bill . this time , the Bill be review on the Floor of the other place , where the Government amend clause 13 to fix a long - stand error in our framework on arbitral appeal . I have be quite thorough in cover the ground . I hope all member feel they have get a good understanding of the issue behind the Bill and why we need to take the step that I be urge the whole House to take . to conclude , I second the remark make by Lord Thomas on Third reading : " we must find a mean of do this very rapidly , as we must keep english law — I say english law deliberately — attractive and at the forefront of use internationally , for the benefit of our whole economy . " — [ Official Report , House of Lords , 6 November 2024 ; Vol . 840 , c . 1499 . ] I hope the House agree , and will give the Bill a second reading . a tour de force . I call the shadow Minister . I rise on behalf of the Opposition to support the second reading of the Arbitration Bill . as the Minister have lay out , arbitration be a cornerstone of the UK ' s legal and economic landscape , contribute significantly to our reputation as a global hub for dispute resolution . the Bill seek to amend the Arbitration Act 1996 to ensure our framework remain world lead and fit for purpose in a rapidly evolve global business environment . arbitration play a vital role across both the domestic and international sphere . it be employ in area range from family law and rent review to commodity trading , shipping and investor claim against state . with over 5 , 000 arbitration conduct annually in England and Wales , the process directly contribute more than £ 2 . 5 billion to our economy in arbitrator and legal fee , while also support wide sector , such as banking , insurance and trade . the Minister use the opportunity of this debate to cover quite extensively the long and distinguished history of arbitration in our judicial system . we all agree that London stand proudly as one of the world ' s most preferred seat for international arbitration , alongside Singapore . maintain this position be no accident . it reflect the strength of our legal system , the confidence of global business in our expertise and the robustness of the original 1996 Act . however , as other jurisdiction modernise their arbitration law , we must ensure that ours remain cut edge to safeguard our competitive lead . the previous Conservative Government rightly recognise that need , and in March 2021 task the Law Commission to review the Act . I thank all those involve at the Law Commission for their hard and excellent work . after extensive consultation and input from stakeholder , the Law Commission publish its final report and a draft bill in September 2023 , identify target reform to enhance our arbitration framework . a Bill to deliver those reform be introduce by the Conservative Government in November 2023 ; I thank the Minister for his acknowledgment of the previous Government ' s work . the Bill ' s progress be interrupt by the general election . the opposition commend the Government for reintroduce the Bill swiftly in light of the broad support . observer may have notice that we have a quiet Chamber today , but in this the world ' s first debate chamber , the lack of attendance be a reflection of the deep and consider consensus and lack of debate around the need for this important Bill and what it be seek to achieve . I thank Lord Bellamy in particular for his contribution as the sponsoring Minister of the original Bill and for his continued and important contribution in the development and improvement of this Bill . I also thank Lord Hacking for his contribution to the debate in the other place , particularly on the issue of corruption . we appreciate such valuable input and agree that that matter warrant further consideration . even if , ultimately , the need to get the Bill on to the statute book for all the benefit that it bring mean that it would not be appropriate to do that through the current legislation , we should continue to monitor and revisit that issue . the Arbitration Bill introduce a range of reform design to improve clarity , efficiency and fairness in arbitration proceeding . those reform address practical change while reinforce the UK ' s position as a global leader . I will highlight a few key provision , as the Minister have explain in detail , which make the Bill significant . first , the Bill address long - stand uncertainty in the legal framework , particularly regard arbitration agreement where no jurisdiction be specify . by default to the law of the seat of arbitration , the Bill align with international norm , thereby enhance predictability and clarity for party involve . secondly , it strengthen the integrity of arbitrator by codify the duty of impartiality and disclosure . as clarify in the landmark Halliburton v . Chubb case , the Bill ensure great transparency and foster trust in the arbitration process . finally , the Bill promote procedural efficiency . provision such as allow summary award , recognise emergency arbitrator and streamline jurisdictional challenge represent vital step towards make arbitration more accessible and efficient for all stakeholder . those be just some of the many commendable provision in the Bill that aim to modernise the 1996 Act and ensure that arbitration remain an attractive and effective method of dispute resolution . the opposition develop the original Bill and support this one to ensure the UK ' s ongoing leadership in arbitration . however , we remain committed to scrutinise its provision in Committee to ensure they achieve their intended goal without unintended consequence . I commend the Bill to the House and I look forward to hear the contribution of the liberal Democrat spokesperson to the debate . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Minister for his comprehensive history of arbitration in the United Kingdom . it have be a long time since I have consider John Locke , have study he as part of a history of political thought paper , which feel almost as long ago as the starting point of the Minister ' s survey . the Liberal Democrats welcome the reintroduction of the Bill and its wide support across the House . as the Minister say , the Arbitration Act 1996 , which govern arbitration in England , Wales and Northern Ireland , be more than 25 year old . as he also say , the Law Commission estimate that there be at least 5 , 000 arbitration annually in England and Wales , worth at least £ 2 . 5 billion to the economy in arbitrator and legal fee alone . arbitration be also important in support a whole range of business activity , as have be outline . an effective legal and dispute resolution process be one of the underpinning of a successful democratic and trading nation , and something of which the United Kingdom have historically be proud . the Bill will help to maintain that status , base on recommendation from the Law Commission and , as the Minister have say , particularly that of London as one of the great centre of international arbitration . the Bill implement recommendation make in a 2022 - 23 Law Commission review of arbitration law to support more efficient dispute resolution . the legal sector have widely support the target reform in the Bill , with positive feedback from public consultation hold by the Law Commission . two key issue be raise in Committee in the other place , which we be happy to see resolve . the first be on the subject of corruption risk . the Liberal Democrats press the Government to provide more information to ensure that confidential arbitration be not abuse to hide corruption from public scrutiny . we thank the Minister for detail the action be take by arbitral institution to militate against the risk of arbitration be misuse and we be satisfied with the reassurance give . the second concern the right of appeal . the Liberal Democrats be glad to support the two amendment table by the Government to correct the drafting of clause 13 , follow concern that the original clause provide a more limited access to the Court of Appeal than be establish in case law . in conclusion , the liberal Democrats be pleased to support the Bill . give some of the other discussion in this House today , we welcome an uncontroversial contribution to the economic growth that this country need . we now come to the wind - up . I believe the shadow Minister have a few comment he wish to make . with the leave of the House , I will speak briefly . I focus my remark early on the Bill , as hon . member might expect , but I want to take this opportunity , as important matter such as arbitration be before the House and as I have the Minister ' s attention , to reiterate our thank to everybody involve both in this Bill and in the previous one , in both Houses . particularly , we thank Lord Hacking for his work in highlight other issue . I encourage the Minister to recognise that , although the Bill be welcome and will be positive , the Government will need to continue work on some issue : as I mention early , the interplay between arbitration and corruption ; the need for expedite hearing ; the role of third party funding ; and the authority to mandate mediation between party . the Minister may not have an immediate response , but I would welcome future work from the Government in those area . I call the Minister . I thank all member for their contribution . I thank the conservative spokesperson for recognise , as we do , the work of Lord Bellamy , Lord Hacking and other peer in the other place , as well as everybody who have contribute to where we be today . I also very much welcome what the Liberal Democrats spokesman say on the tackling of issue through the process — that is , give great confidence about tackle corruption risk and the issue around the right of appeal . I be grateful for the constructive way in which this debate have be pursue . the Bill mirror that of the last Government ' s , save for two change , which I will note here for completeness . the first , as I mention in my opening speech , be the amendment to clause 13 to well reflect the case law on appeal . the drafting error it fix be in section 18 of the Senior Courts Act 1981 and in section 35 of its Northern Ireland equivalent , the Judicature ( Northern Ireland ) Act 1978 . that suggest that appeal to the court of appeal under part 1 of the Arbitration Act 1996 would only be permit if expressly permit in the 1996 Act . however , case law establish that the intend regime for appeal under the 1996 Act be to permit appeal to the Court of Appeal , unless there be provision in the 1996 Act that add an explicit restriction on those appeal . I hope that deal with that issue . clause 13 therefore correct the drafting error identify in the House of Lords ' judgment in Inco Europe v . first Choice distribution and make it clear that appeal from High Court decision under part 1 of the Arbitration Act 1996 may , subject to provision in that part , be make to the Court of Appeal . a slight amendment to the long title be also require to reflect that change . the second change be to clause 1 , which we make prior to the Bill ' s introduction to Parliament . that be to address concern about the effect on arbitration between investor and state , in particular those that follow from an open invitation to arbitrate make in a trade agreement or in domestic legislation . the current position be that those arbitration be govern by international law and foreign domestic law . sector feedback make clear that that be what should continue . our change therefore provide that new section 6a ( 1 ) of the Arbitration Act 1996 do not apply to arbitration agreement derive from stand offer to arbitrate contain in treaty or non - UK legislation . [ interruption . ] do the hon . member for North Bedfordshire ( Richard Fuller ) wish to interject ? indicate dissent . I just a pause for a little reflection while I gather my thought on the other issue to do with arbitral corruption . I be sure the hon . member for North Bedfordshire , for whom I have the high regard , would not want I to skimp on deal with arbitral corruption , which have be raise by both the speaker in the debate so far . indicate assent . I be encourage by his nodding . we take corruption very seriously . however , we have conclude that arbitral corruption be not cause by any issue with our domestic arbitral framework . the Arbitration Act 1996 and common law already provide remedy to deal with corrupt conduct . the court be empower to set aside arbitral award where there be serious irregularity , as they have do recently in the well - know case of Nigeria v . p & ID . furthermore , arbitrator be under a statutory duty to be impartial and to reach a fair resolution of the dispute . they can issue an award that prevent the corrupt party from benefit . although arbitration procedure be often private , corruption can be expose . common law allow an exception to confidentiality when disclosure be in the public interest . however , there be a need for arbitral practitioner and institution across the world to ensure that their practice be continually develop to weed out attempt to exploit they . we shall support and keep track of initiative that be under way , such as that of the International Chamber of Commerce ' s anti - corruption taskforce . we will engage with the sector to adopt the very good practice as they be develop . I hope that that assure the shadow Minister and the hon . member for Didcot and Wantage ( Olly Glover ) . I give my sincere thank to right hon . and hon . member who have contribute to the debate . it have be a measured and helpful debate , which underscore the broad support for this legislative programme . I be happy to have hear so much support for this Bill , particularly those contribution that emphasise its importance to economic growth . our legal service be a vital element of our economy both for create favourable domestic business condition and for attract investment in the UK . and this Government will continue to support they . I re - emphasise that these reform be very much appreciated . many business will be decide whether to designate London as their seat of arbitration versus competitor such as Singapore , Hong Kong , Sweden or Dubai , which have update their arbitral framework in recent time . this decision be not just to settle dispute via arbitration now . arbitration agreement be often pre - emptive , so these business will be make a decision as to where and how dispute may be settle many year in the future . for the past quarter of a century , our Arbitration Act and our law have be a key draw , make our shore the natural choice for arbitration . in 1996 , we create a truly world - lead legislative framework , which contribute to London become the preferred forum for arbitration proceeding across the globe . we must maintain our lead position and continue to attract business to ensure economic growth . it be therefore important that these measure seek only to improve the arbitral process and promote trust in arbitration . it would have be no good have these reform create red tape — we would not want to see that . arbitration must remain a quick and a more flexible mean by which to resolve a legal dispute versus go to court . but also it be key to promote trust in arbitration to ensure that proceeding on our shore remain robust and respect internationally . the Law Commission need to be commend for do such a brilliant job — a superb job — review our framework line by line and see where improvement can be make . this Bill contain , as I have say , the expertise and wisdom of myriad practitioner , expert , firm , judge and other . I will , if I may , indulge in share some of the supportive quote from the sector about the Law Commission ' s work . no ! I have only a few . [ laughter . ] the House would be the poor for not hear these quote — [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] I feel that it be important to share they . More be available , but I will restrict myself to just a few . the Bar Council say : " we welcome the Law Commission ' s characteristically careful and balanced review of the Arbitration Act , and we support the proposal for reform which it make . it be extremely important that the government find parliamentary time , " — we be do that — " for the short bill which the Law Commission propose . London have a well - deserve reputation as the foremost centre " — the foremost centre — " for international arbitration . it be important to legislate to make the modest change to the arbitration regime which the Law Commission have recommend in order to maintain and enhance that reputation . " the Chartered Institute of Arbitrators say that it welcome " the propose change , the majority of which be in line with our recommendation , which be inform by input from our membership … it be a sign of the Arbitration Act 1996 ' s strength and value that only specific change to ensure that Act remain current have be recommend as oppose to an overhaul . as well as underpin the attractiveness and competitiveness of London as an arbitration seat , the Act form the basis of legislation in many other jurisdiction , lend global significance to this development . " the Chartered Institute of Arbitrators " work closely with the UK Law Commission to inform the review . we support regular review of such legislation to ensure arbitration remain effective , fit for purpose , and a viable mean of justice in a modern world . " White & Case LLP say that " we expect that the amendment propose by the Law Commission will promote the efficiency and finality of arbitration proceeding , whilst not unnecessarily introduce drastic reform to exist legislation . the Report therefore be to be welcome as a positive , incremental step in maintain London ' s position as a major centre for international arbitration and dispute resolution more generally . " the last quote be one of many positive comment that have be receive on what we be do today and on the Law Commission ' s work . Herbert Smith Freehills LLP say : " there can be no suggestion that any change be be make for change ' s sake . the Law Commission have respect the importance of this legislation and seek only to make change that be necessary … if enact into law , they will continue to ensure that the arbitration legislation of England and Wales maintain its market - lead status . " that be what we all want , Madam Deputy Speaker . we want this Arbitration Bill , which begin under the previous Government and be complete under this government , to maintain our market - lead status . we be determined to do that by work together across this House . those be , I assure the House , only a small sample of those who engage with , and support , the Law Commission ' s review . however , I will also highlight that these comment be make almost a year and a half ago now on the publication of the Law Commission ' s final report . although it be indeed the case that law reform can take some time , this Government be commit to ensure that these reform find their way on to our statute book as quickly as possible . we must ensure that the Bill face no further delay . these measure must now proceed at pace through the House . dispute resolution matter . dispute that go unresolved be bad for the party and have knock - on consequence for everyone else . at well , dispute distract from firm get on with their business and individual get on with their life . at worst , the slow and stressful impact of legal dispute can have much great impact elsewhere . business may have money tie up in litigation that could and should go towards investment . individual may find that a protract court battle , with its cost and delay , may lead to sickness , which of course will have its own knock - on effect on economic productivity . resolve dispute allow everyone to move forward — all the more so if dispute can be resolve by a process that be trust and respected and that can be tailor flexibly to the need of those involve . it be no wonder that arbitration have prove such a popular method for resolve dispute in the UK and why UK arbitration have prove such a popular method for resolve dispute worldwide . I will also take a moment to compliment the other excellent form of dispute resolution on our shore . in the construction sector , many dispute will by default go to an expedite adjudication with expert , allow for a quick determination that enable the project to proceed without further delay . we also boast an excellent network of ombudsman , which deal with all manner of dispute , include consumer matter . we also have a grow mediation sector , which , in both commercial and family matter , be expert at facilitate negotiation between party to come to a truly consensual resolution to dispute . the Bill will enact long - await reform to our arbitration law framework , which will enable more efficient dispute resolution for domestic and international party alike . it will attract international legal business and promote UK economic growth — not just directly because arbitration happen here , but because it promote the UK as a one - stop shop for business . our arbitration be respect , and so too be our lawyer engage in arbitration — lawyer who be then engage for transactional business ; business that be fund by our bank , underwrite by our insurer and mediate through our trading house ; and trading house that also offer arbitral service in a mutually reinforcing offering . the Bill ensure that our arbitration law be cut edge . as I have say , it have attract attention the world over , serve as a reminder of why the UK remain a premier destination internationally for business everywhere . the Bill be therefore of great importance to the legal service sector and to the Government . I commend it to the House . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read a second time . arbitration Bill [ Lords ] ( Programme ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 83A ( 7 ) ) , that the follow provision shall apply to the Arbitration Bill [ Lords ] : committal ( 1 ) the Bill shall be commit to a Committee of the whole House . proceeding in Committee , on consideration and on Third Reading ( 2 ) proceeding in Committee shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion two hour after their commencement . ( 3 ) any proceeding on consideration and proceeding on Third read shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion three hour after the commencement of proceeding in Committee of the whole House . ( 4 ) Standing Order no . 83b ( programming committee ) shall not apply to proceeding in Committee of the whole House , to any proceeding on consideration or to proceeding on Third Reading . other proceeding ( 5 ) any other proceeding on the Bill may be program . — ( Keir Mather . ) question agree to . business of the House Ordered , that , at this day ' s sit , the Speaker shall put the Questions necessary to dispose of proceeding on ( 1 ) the Motion in the name of the Chancellor of the Exchequer , relate to the Charter for Budget Responsibility , not later than 90 minute after the commencement of proceeding on the motion for this order ; and ( 2 ) the Motions ( i ) in the name of Secretary Liz Kendall , relate to the Welfare Cap and ( ii ) in the name of the Chancellor of the Exchequer , relate to the Welfare Cap , not later than 90 minute after the commencement of proceeding on the first of those Motions ; such question shall include the Questions on any Amendments select by the Speaker which may then be move ; the business may be proceed with , though oppose , after the moment of interruption ; and Standing Order No . 41a ( defer division ) shall not apply . — ( Lucy Powell . ) charter for Budget Responsibility I beg to move , that the Charter for Budget Responsibility : Autumn 2024 , which be lay before this House on 22 January , be approve . it feel like I be in the House only a few moment ago , but I be delighted to be back at the Dispatch Box for this important debate . sustained economic growth , support by sound investment , be the only route to improve the prosperity of our country , and , in so do , the living standard of work people . growth be the primary mission of this Government . this debate be timely , as the House know , give that the Chancellor give her growth speech only this morning . in her speech , she reiterate that without a stable economy , we can not hope to attract investment into the UK ; that we can not grow our economy with a black hole in our public finance ; and , importantly , that fix the foundation of the economy start with the new fiscal rule , which we be vote on here today . the Chancellor announce in her speech that we be take difficult decision in the long - term interest of the country , include , for example , on a third runway at Heathrow airport . as she set out , the Government support and be invite proposal for a third runway at Heathrow to be bring forward by the summer . once proposal have be receive , we will take forward a full assessment through the airport national policy statement , to ensure that any scheme be deliver in line with our legal , environmental and climate obligation . accord to a recent study from Frontier Economics , a third runway could increase gdp by 4 . 3 % over the next 25 year . it be estimate that over half — around 60 % — of that boost would go to area outside London and the south - east , underline the fact that Heathrow as a hub airport bring prosperity not just to London but to every region and nation of the country . the Government have also set out further plan to reform our planning system , to provide confidence to investor and builder , and to show that Britain can get build again and that we can deliver on our promise . confidence start with stability . stability be the precondition to a healthy , grow economy , because it give UK business and household the essential confidence that they need to spend and invest , encourage innovation and boost our economy . in outline our new , robust and transparent fiscal framework , the charter for Budget responsibility that we be vote on today provide a vital and stable foundation from which our economy can grow . what the instability of the last 14 year have give we be clear : low productivity , rise debt level and decline public service performance . public sector net debt be 97 . 2 % of gdp , and net financial debt remain close to its high record level as a share of GDP , which be reach in the pandemic . per capita gdp remain 0 . 8 % below pre - pandemic level . in contrast , have the UK economy grow at the average rate of OECD economy over the past 14 year , it would be over £ 150 billion large than it be today . public investment in the UK have historically be low and inconsistent . our public capital stock , as a share of gdp , be the joint low in the G7 , and more than 10 percentage point below the G7 median . underneath all those challenge be a £ 22 billion black hole of in - year spending pressure that be not disclose by the previous Government to Parliament , the public or the Office for Budget Responsibility — [ interruption . ] my colleague the shadow Chief Secretary to the Treasury , the hon . member for North Bedfordshire ( Richard Fuller ) , seem to have comment on the £ 22 billion black hole . I will happily take an intervention from he . [ interruption . ] I be tell that I can not take an intervention , Madam Deputy Speaker . that be very sad . but in that context , I look forward to the shadow Chief Secretary outline in his speech how that £ 22 billion black hole come into being . for the record , the Minister can take an intervention if he wish to . this remind I of the many year all three of we spend on the Business and Trade Committee , when we could not agree on anything either . I be always enamoured of your argument , Madam Deputy Speaker , as I continue to be today . I look forward to the prospect of many intervention from member across the House as part of this important debate , and I encourage the shadow Chief Secretary to intervene . I be grateful for the opportunity to intervene . can the Chief Secretary to the Treasury confirm whether the OBR validate his £ 22 billion claim ? the OBR be very clear , as member will see in its publication in the House of Commons Library , that the spending plan announce by the previous Government be — to quote the chair of the OBR in his evidence to the Treasury Committee — a " fiction . " the OBR forecast provide to the Government make it clear that have the in - year spending pressure be report transparently , the last forecast under the previous Administration would have be " materially different " . that show that the lack of transparency on in - year spending be a secret hold by only a few Ministers in the last government , and neither the public , Parliament , we in opposition nor the OBR know about that problem . that be why this Government have already legislate to bring forward additional strengthened power for independent check and balance and transparency , and we have commit to share in - year spending pressure with the Office for Budget Responsibility so that we never end up in a situation like the one we inherit . the Chancellor ' s autumn Budget put the public finance back on track , and we will keep they there . our commitment to sound public finance be non - negotiable . our new charter for Budget responsibility , underpin by the new fiscal rule , ensure a more transparent fiscal framework and provide a stable foundation for growth . today I will outline the change that we have make to the charter for Budget responsibility , as publish in draft at the autumn Budget 2024 and lay before this House last week . fiscal rule be a key part of the UK fiscal framework . at the autumn Budget in 2024 , the Chancellor confirm the Government ' s fiscal rule as set out in our manifesto , which will play a vital role in unlock investment . these rule will put the public finance on a sustainable path and prioritise investment to support long - term growth . they consist of two rule : the stability rule and the investment rule . the stability rule aim to move the current Budget into balance so that day - to - day spending be meet by revenue , mean that the Government will borrow only for investment . we will meet this rule in 2029 - 30 , until that become the third year of the forecast . from that point on , we will balance the current Budget in the third year of every Budget , hold annually each autumn . this will provide a tough constraint on day - to - day spending so that difficult decision can not be constantly delay or defer , as they be under the last Government . I be sure the House would recommend that the Government should live within their mean . that mean that public service have to be able to live within their budget , and it mean that tax revenue have to pay for day - to - day spending . never again will we end up in the position the country end up in under the last Government , when every week and every month the country borrow more and more in order to pay the day - to - day bill . that be why when hon . member on the Opposition Benches complain about the debt burden this country be have to deal with , they should look in the mirror , because they build up that debt burden . the people responsible for fill up the country ' s credit card just to pay the bill every month , even in advance of the pandemic , be Conservative Ministers . that will never happen under a Labour Government because of our clear fiscal rule . it be why for the first time in 17 year we be do a zero - base review of all public spending , not once do under the last Administration but do in the first spending review of this Labour Government . secondly , our investment rule require the Government to reduce net financial debt , define as public sector net financial liability , as a share of the economy . public sector net financial liability be an accredited official statistic , produce by the Office for National Statistics since 2016 ; base on international statistical guidance , it have be forecast by the OBR since that time . the Institute for Fiscal Studies have note that the metric offer a " more complete picture of the Government ' s financial position , while remove some of the perverse incentive associate with a narrow focus on PSND " — public sector net debt . this rule keep debt on a sustainable path while allow the step change need in investment by target a measure of debt that capture not just the debt that Government owe , but financial asset that be expect to generate future return . by target net financial debt for the investment rule , the Government be prioritise investment to drive long - term growth while get debt fall as a share of the economy . the move to net financial debt will be support by a comprehensive set of guardrail to give confidence that there be rule around the investment the country can make . like our stability rule , our investment rule will apply in 2029 - 30 until that year become the third year of the forecast , and from that point onwards net financial debt will fall in the third year of every forecast . the move to net financial debt mean that at the autumn Budget the Government be in a position to confirm public investment that will be £ 100 billion high over the forecast period compare to the previous Government ' s plan . I be pleased to say that in its autumn forecast the OBR confirm that the Government be on track to meet both fiscal rule two year early , in 2027 - 28 , display the Government ' s commitment to sound finance . the Chancellor have ask the OBR to produce a forecast on 26 March , which will assess we against these rule once again . our commitment to these fiscal rule be iron - clothe . the UK have change its fiscal rule in the past more than any other country , but this government know that stability matter . that be why the new charter set out clear circumstance under which the fiscal rule can temporarily be suspend through a new strengthen escape clause . the new escape clause require a decision on suspension be support by the OBR ' s analysis so that the rule can be suspend only with sufficient justification . as well as new fiscal rule , the update charter for budget responsibility include a set of wide reform that ensure a more stable and transparent fiscal framework . because fiscal responsibility be so central to this Government ' s mission , the first piece of legislation pass in this Parliament be the Budget Responsibility act 2024 . it deliver our manifesto commitment to introduce a fiscal lock . I do not think member on either side of the House need reminding of what happen when huge unfunded fiscal commitment be make without proper scrutiny and key economic institution such as the OBR be sideline . we will not let that happen again . the fiscal lock therefore guarantee in law that from now on every fiscally significant change to tax and spending will be subject to scrutiny by the independent OBR . the charter set out the detail of how the fiscal lock will operate . as well as the new guide fiscal principle to move towards only borrow for investment and to keep debt on a sustainable path , the OBR will monitor progress against a dashboard of key debt sustainability metric to ensure the Government be take a broad view of fiscal sustainability . a broad view will allow the Government to form a full assessment of the sustainability of the public finance and support we in seek to improve sustainability over time . we be also enhance fiscal and economic stability by confirm in the charter today that the Government ' s intention to move to one major fiscal event per year will be honour , give family and business certainty on tax and spending plan , as will the requirement on the Treasury to conduct regular spending review every two year and set spending for at least three year , ensure public service have certainty on their funding and that spending decision can not again be repeatedly delay . in addition , it guarantee a three - year rolling budget for the OBR , to support its independence . we be far strengthen fiscal transparency and accountability by accept all the recommendation of the OBR review of the March 2024 forecast for departmental expenditure limit , include to improve the spending information the Treasury share with the OBR . the OBR be widely recognise as provide independent , credible and high - quality analysis . it be a guarantor of economic stability . go forward , the Treasury will provide the OBR with information on the in - year position , allow it to forecast underspending and overspend against departmental expenditure limit where appropriate . this will ensure the unfunded pressure identify at the public spending audit never happen again . we be a Government who will consider the impact of our current spending decision on future generation , and to show how the long - term health of the public balance sheet be bolster by sound investment , the charter require the OBR to report on the long - term impact of capital investment and other policy at fiscal event . finally , I turn to the welfare cap , which we be also debate today . the Government be retain the welfare cap within our fiscal framework to support our ambition to keep welfare spending sustainable in the medium term . the OBR will assess whether the new cap have be meet at the first fiscal event of the next Parliament . the late OBR forecast judge the previous welfare cap to be breach by £ 8 . 6 billion , follow a trend of forecast breach by the previous Government . this be clearly an unsustainable path for welfare spending . this breach underline the inheritance leave by the previous Government : a failure to control welfare spending and to bring forward radical reform , and , crucially , a failure by the last government to support people to get the treatment or skill they need to return to work . in his assessment , what estimate have the Minister make of the increase in poverty and child poverty in our society and the effect of largely uncontrolle rent in the private rented sector , often well above the local housing allowance , which lead people into poverty ? the right hon . Member know that the Labour party take child poverty seriously . that be why we launch the child poverty taskforce at the start of this Government , co - chair by the Work and Pensions Secretary and the Education Secretary , to do a root and branch review of the long - term structural cause of child poverty and the intervention the Government could take to reverse those grow trend that none of we across the House want to see . the taskforce will report in the come month , but he be right to point out that housing cost and insecure housing have become ever more important driver of child poverty in recent year . that be why , through the Renters ' Rights Bill introduce to the House by the Deputy Prime Minister , we be take action in the private rent sector to provide additional protection and support for family in rental accommodation — for example , ban no - fault eviction and give more security of tenure for people who be rent . like I , the right hon . Member will have have lot of casework where hard - work family , who be just try to make end meet and to provide security of income and a roof over their head for they and their family , be fail by a market in which house price to buy and rent be out of reach and the rate at which we build affordable and social housing be not meet the demand of the people who need it . that be why we increase funding at the Budget by half a billion pound to build more affordable and social housing , which we know can be deliver quickly . on a visit last week to Erewash , I visit social housing development support by Homes England and learn from the company build those home for emh home , the east midland housing association , that it take only 14 to 16 week from lay the foundation through to give the key to the person move in . that remind we why our reform agenda be so important , because the time involve in building — planning , consent , infrastructure and financing deal — have be significantly hold back the rate of development of social and affordable housing across the country . those be exactly the sort of issue where Government have the ability to make a difference , which be why we be committed to accelerate our plan to build 1 . 5 million home a year , but , crucially , to tilt that towards more affordable and social housing to support people across the country . the Government be reset the welfare cap , give that the previous one be repeatedly breach , and we be do so base on the late Office for Budget Responsibility forecast . that will set a new target for 2029 - 30 , alongside our action to control welfare spending and to help people who deserve the assistance . the Government have demonstrate that they will not shy away from do what be need to put welfare spending on a more sustainable path — for example , with different decision such as target winter fuel payment to those who need they the most and reclaim £ 4 . 3 billion of public money lose to fraud and error in the welfare system in 2029 - 30 , and £ 9 . 2 billion over five year . we have also announce step to tackle inactivity through the " get Britain work " White Paper and will set out further proposal in the health and disability Green Paper later in spring . progress against the cap will be monitor by the Treasury and the Department for Work and Pensions . that will include a strengthened accountability framework and the DWP publish an annual report on welfare spending . by strengthen the accountability of the welfare cap , get more people into work and reform the welfare system for long - term sustainability , we be take the necessary step to keep spend under control . but crucially , we be also serve the people of this country by ensure that people who for too long have be at home unable to be see in the NHS or to get access to mental health service , who have be unable to get the training or support they need to take advantage of the job available in our country , and who have be unable to find job near where they be , see hope in their future and know they have a Government on their side who will support they to get back into work . that outcome be well for they , their family finance and their future , but it also support we in ensure fiscal stability . the reform to the fiscal framework outline in the new charter for Budget responsibility will ensure a more stable approach to tax and spend , as well as well transparency and accountability for our government and future government . that stability be inseparable from our plan for growth . alongside that growth , restore stability mean the Government can pay for increase funding to repair , reform and modernise our public service and to invest in the infrastructure need to rebuild Britain . for those reason , I commend the motion to the House . to clear up any confusion , this be the debate and motion on the charter for Budget responsibility . the next motion and debate will be on the welfare cap . I call the shadow Minister . as the Chancellor scour the nation turn over every stone in her desperate effort to mitigate the damage from her choice in last year ' s Budget of broken promise , it fall to the Chief Secretary to the Treasury to keep his face straight as he lecture the House on the importance of fiscal responsibility . he have show the performative skill of one of the great of the west end , but his mouthing of the word of economic stewardship , even as his audience of wealth creator get up out of their seat and leave the show , leave few of we impress . they know what the british public know : that this be a Treasury team and a Government who , day after day , create more problem and , day after day , demonstrate that they be clearly out of their depth . as the shadow Minister and , I hope , the House know , I be a humble man and be always ear - open to advice , wisdom and feedback on how we can do thing well . give his opening remark on fiscal stability , I wonder whether he have any reflection to offer the House from the time of his party be in government and , indeed , from his time in the Treasury under former Prime Minister Liz Truss about what go wrong and what we might do differently . the Chief Secretary to the Treasury , like so many on the Labour Benches , love to talk — almost fondly — about the former Prime Minister Liz Truss . well , at least she know her time be up after 50 day ; we be stick with the Chancellor for five year . when it be note a few month back that the entire Labour Cabinet could barely scrape together a year ' s worth of business experience between they , it be think to be just a curiosity . little do we know it be an early warning sign of their lack of suitability for the task of manage the british economy : business confidence down , job loss up , consumer confidence in the gutter and Government debt spiral far upwards — and they be just get start . there be , of course , potential benefit from the investment that be be announce today . we share a desire for a more competitive , less regulated economy base on a passion for free enterprise , but while Labour celebrate the exodus of millionaire from our country , we recognise that it represent a loss of skill , low job creation , and the evaporation of potential future taxation to support public service . while Labour see the attack on family farm and family business as a vital part of its warped class - war ideology , we recognise that put family at the heart of enterprise be a critical piece of our nation ' s proud heritage of freedom . the shadow Minister talk fondly about the importance of family farm . where be his comment on that topic when his party be negotiate trade deal with Australia and New Zealand that have sorely impact farm around the country ? my friend , the Liberal Democrat spokesman on economic , make a fair point about the impact of trade agreement on family finance . however , as she know , that be very different from the pain that farmer be feel right now about Labour ' s attack on the ability of family to pass on their farm to their child — it be different in scale and in type . it be a damaging policy by the Labour party that we know , or at least hope , that Labour will change in due course . I be sure that today , the Chief Secretary to the Treasury be also engage in a series of phone conversation with his departmental colleague as , ahead of the March update on the OBR ' s financial forecast , they review what it will mean for their departmental expenditure . as he have those difficult phone conversation , I say to the Chief Secretary that we stand ready to support effective step on prudent financial responsibility . on the point of prudent financial responsibility — [ interruption . ] I think the House be interested in a long and detailed debate this evening , so it be important that we dive into the detail . on this issue of prudent fiscal responsibility , the hon . Gentleman presumably welcome our fiscal rule that day - to - day cost will be meet by revenue , as oppose to have to borrow money all the time to pay those day - to - day cost . that be something that consistently happen under the last Conservative Administration , which be a mistake in the context of fiscal responsibility , be it not ? I be aware that the Chief Secretary to the Treasury be interested in a prolong debate today — I be not sure whether that be because of the content of the debate , or for other reason . I would say gently to he that write rule be different from follow rule , so he will be judge by this House on how he meet the rule that he have set . my purpose today be to cover some of those rule , and I will have some comment on they , but first , although we will be have a separate debate on the welfare cap , the Chief Secretary to the Treasury make some point about it . my hon . friend the Member for Faversham and Mid Kent ( Helen Whately ) will respond formally on that issue , so these be just my thought , really . the welfare cap , of course , be introduce in 2014 by Conservative Chancellor George Osborne , who recognise the particular difficulty with forecasting and manage certain welfare budget . at the 2014 Budget , he explain his rationale : " Britain should always be proud of have a welfare system that help those most in need , but never again should we allow its cost to spiral out of control and its incentive to become so distorted that it pay not to work . in future , any Government who want to spend more on benefit will have to be honest with the public about the cost , will need the approval of Parliament , and will be hold to account by this permanent cap on welfare . " — [ Official Report , 19 March 2014 ; Vol . 577 , c . 785 . ] George Osborne ' s initiative have show its value over the past decade , and it be right that the new Government be follow its intent in principle and , one hope , also in practice . our task today be to listen to the explanation for the breaching of the welfare cap for fiscal year 2024 - 25 and the rationale for the particular limit that the Chief Secretary ' s Government will set on the welfare cap for future fiscal year through 2029 - 30 . as the Chief Secretary say , in October , as part of the first Budget of the Parliament , the OBR provide its assessment of the status of welfare spending compare with the cap that be set in 2024 . that assessment be an excess of £ 8 . 6 billion , which indicate a breach . with the country now spend over £ 156 billion on welfare every year and with the obvious pressure on public expenditure , there should be a determination to find saving in the welfare budget . indeed , that be the intention of the conservative party at the last election , with a commitment to reduce expenditure by £ 12 billion through well target of disability benefit , amend the level of payment for those whose disability would not routinely be expect to lead to additional life expense , overhaul the fit note process , and introduce tough sanction on those who shirk the opportunity to work and contribute to society . but the Labour Government today appear to be set on a different course , with a pathway for the welfare cap that be up , not down , grow from this year ' s cap of £ 137 billion to reach £ 195 billion by 2029 - 30 . that be a 42 % increase in the welfare cap . it be important to note that at the same point in the last Parliament , when the conservative party set the rule on the welfare cap , that increase be limit to 15 % . rise — that difference between 15 % and 42 % be important , be it not ? it be important . I think we should reflect on what some of the driver be behind the increase spend in the welfare budget , because the evidence be very clear . for people who can be — and indeed wish to be — economically active but be in receipt of universal credit support and other form of payment , the main reason be be unable to get access to the treatment they need in the health and mental health service space or be unable to access training opportunity for the job that be available in the market . without dive too much into the weed , that be the issue about the difference between the approach to austerity in day - to - day resource spending — where we cut spending to frontline public service — and annually manage expenditure . that be all very well , but the Chief Secretary be talk about the wrong budget . he be talk about increase to the health budget or change to aspect of the DWP budget ; he be not talk about why this Government be allow an increase of up to 42 % in welfare payment in this country . that be a different issue . it show laxity on the part of the Government . serious question need to be ask , and I be sure will be ask , in the next debate . let I return to the charter for budget responsibility , which be establish by former Chancellor George Osborne as part of the Budget Responsibility and National Audit Act 2011 . on Second Reading , the Economic Secretary to the Treasury explain why the measure be necessary : " we inherit the large budget deficit in our peacetime history , we inherit a budget deficit forecast to be the large in the G20 , and we inherit the large structural deficit in the whole of Europe . " — [ Official Report , 14 February 2011 ; Vol . 523 , c . 746 . ] she do not have to make up number , as this Government have do , about some fanciful black hole ; these be fact , and my former colleague , Justine Greening , be tell the truth to the nation . indeed , truth be the foundation upon which any charter for budget responsibility be base . let I be clear : when the Chancellor say on 13 November 2023 that she be " not go to fiddle the figure or make something to get different result " , the fiscal rule include in this charter demonstrate that she be not tell the truth . in this charter , the Chancellor have change the rule on the measurement of debt from public sector net debt , or PSND , exclude the Bank of England , to public sector net financial liability , or PSNFL . this fiddling of the figure open the tap for the Chancellor to borrow more , even while our debt to GDP ratio stand at historically high level follow the pandemic and the Ukraine war . the Guardian newspaper , which I be sure the Chief Secretary read avidly , report on 24 October 2024 that if my right hon . friend the Member for Godalming and Ash ( Jeremy Hunt ) , the former Conservative Chancellor , have act similarly to the current Chancellor , his fiscal headroom would have balloon from £ 9 billion to £ 49 billion , but he know well than the current Chancellor . the Chancellor have even have to create her own name for thing , just so that she can claim she be get debt fall . she say in her Budget statement that she will call PSNFL " net financial debt , for short . " — [ Official Report , 30 October 2024 ; Vol . 755 , c . 823 . ] the reality be that the proper measure of Government debt , as per the previous fiscal rule , be rise in every single year of the forecast . the OBR have confirm that on the previous definition , which she have say she would keep to , the fiscal rule be be break . at the last election , Labour say it would get debt fall , and the Government continue to claim that they be deliver that . they be do nothing of the sort . let we be very clear : debt be rise , and it be forecast to continue to rise . we will be spend nearly £ 50 billion more on debt interest over the next five year as a result of their first Budget alone . there be also concern about the rolling three - year target for the rule that the current Budget should be in surplus and the rule that debt — the Government ' s dubious definition of debt — should be fall as a share of the economy . like the water and fruit for Tantalus , the rule permit these reasonable target to remain just out of reach every time — they be always there but never meet . to extend my simile , the charter rule be to the Chancellor and the Chief Secretary as St Augustine regard self - control : " grant I chastity and self - control , but not yet . " the charter begin on shaky ground with a weak Treasury team , but it remain an important part of our country ' s fiscal framework . under the rule of the House , the motion be not amendable , so we shall not oppose the measure . we do need fiscal rule , but we condemn the Government ' s approach of fiddle the figure to add more borrowing . they promise that they would not , but , as so many time before , they have break their promise once again . it be a great pleasure to speak in the debate and something of a privilege to be the only Back - Bench speaker . I shall make a series of point , include welcome the Chancellor ' s commitment to growth and the announcement that she make today before move on to a number of other area . I commend what the Chancellor say this morning in Oxfordshire and , in particular , what she say about the importance of investment in infrastructure for the long term , whether in transport , new power to streamline the planning process or indeed attract more tech investment to the UK . my reading Central constituency and the whole of Berkshire benefit enormously from such investment , so I wholeheartedly welcome her announcement and commend she for her work on that . if I may , I will somewhat cheekily ask the Chief Secretary to take a few point back to the Chancellor . in our area , we be look for further investment to drive economic growth . I will highlight a couple of point of local importance . in particular , the western rail link to Heathrow scheme be support by all Berkshire mp and colleague from across a much wide area . heathrow airport be unusual in be a hub airport in western Europe without a rail link in both direction . a number of local authority , parliamentary colleague and the rail industry have push for this measure , which , compare with some point discuss in the Chancellor ' s speech and more widely in the House this afternoon , would require only modest investment . a short stretch of railway line from Langley , just outside Slough , into the airport , where space for a station already exist , would significantly cut journey time for worker at the airport , commuter and many other , and attract business to Berkshire . the scheme be support by local business group . to give an idea of the importance to read , at the moment it take around 50 minute from read station to travel to Heathrow by bus , but it would be just 15 minute with a rail link . many of the firm relocate to the read area from across the country would be encourage far by that and have far great connectivity to international market through swift access to Heathrow . equally , it would appeal to inward investor come to our part of England . there would be an additional benefit — the Chief Secretary may know well know about this — for traveller from the west of England and south Wales in vastly speed up their journey to Heathrow airport . I want to flag that up to he . may I ask the Chief Secretary to relay to the Chancellor my wholehearte support for the Oxford - Cambridge corridor ? the area that I represent sit at the south - western edge of that corridor . give the excellent rail and road connection between Reading , Berkshire and Oxford — it take as little as 25 minute to get from read town centre to Oxford city centre by rail — that route could extend the corridor , which will run through Northamptonshire and Bedfordshire , as the Chancellor highlight . indeed , the rail corridor into Berkshire and through southern Oxfordshire pass Culham , an area of significant science investment that be formerly the site of the UK and Europe ' s Joint European Torus project . it also run through Didcot , which be a major centre of inward investment , as well as to read . there would be enormous benefit to resident and business in Oxfordshire and to business in Berkshire if that be see as a whole , rather than the line stop in Oxford . I hope that he will take that back to his colleague . I appreciate that many colleague may want to speak later on the welfare cap motion , so I will limit my remark and not stray too far . I would , however , like to describe some of the benefit to the Berkshire local economy of the stability that the Chief Secretary outline . we have a fundamentally strong local economy ; we be lucky to have high level of growth relative to other part of the UK . we face the same challenge as area from across the country , which he outline early : the importance of stability and long - term investment , and make sure that business understand that there be stability so that they invest and spend their own money create job . let I draw out some example from local business . I represent a constituency that have high tech and telecom employment . something like 300 , 000 people work in those sector in the county of Berkshire . in reading , there be a significant cluster near the station , which have be foster not just by the rebuilding of the station but by read be the western terminus of the Elizabeth line . that have lead to a significant number of employer move to the town centre . it be a good example of the benefit of investment that the Chancellor talk about early , and of the importance of high - speed rail and other improvement to rail and public transport , to connect major centre of employment and allow employer to recruit from a much wide pool . that be exactly the message I have be tell when visit employer in that area . they have base themselves near the station because they can access a much wide pool of worker with high level of skill , and that drive productivity and growth in their business . there be strong local example which , at microeconomic level , make the point that the Chief Secretary have make today . let I also draw the House ' s attention to the importance of education , which the Chief Secretary hint at , to manage public finance . in my experience , have a university in the constituency be a huge driver of economic activity , particularly for create a skilled workforce , who often wish to remain in the constituency . that be certainly the case for many place the Chancellor describe in her speech , particularly the great university city of Oxford and Cambridge . it also apply to London and many other centre such as Manchester . high education be central . it must be link with employment and offer the right programme to attract a wide range of young people into high education . it be a privilege to meet staff at Reading University recently . they brief I on some of their work to encourage young people from family who traditionally might not have think about go to university to consider high education at their local university . that be an important part of the big picture . I commend the Chief Secretary for his wide approach on the importance of investment and stability link to investment , in transport infrastructure , as well as it and tech infrastructure such as data centre , and a range of other form of infrastructure . let I move on to some of the point make early . it be important to note that we be at a turning point . we have have a long period of low growth . the Government be right to make growth their top priority , to move on from 14 year of historically low growth compare with the UK average over the past 40 or 50 year and go back to the industrial revolution . the Chief Secretary rightly make the connection between growth and investment , and so do the Chancellor today . I welcome and wholeheartedly support the Chancellor ' s emphasis on release pension saving to drive economic growth . that have be a successful policy both in Canada and in Australia . although they be much big country and have more natural resource , they have significant similarity to the UK — the benefit of english common law and many other historical advantage of our system and history . there be some important point to be make on that front . above all , we must avoid the mistake of recent year — the instability , the disastrous mini - Budget , the gambling with public finance and the lack of transparency . the Chief Secretary be right to commend this charter today . I will draw out two particular point to flag to the House that I think be vital . the first be report on capital investment , which be an important measure in the charter . the second be in - year pressure , which , from the point of view of manage public finance , be vital . as he rightly say , it will allow policymaker much great insight into what be happen in near - real time , which be important in avoid future problem . I commend those measure . in summary , the macro - level change that we have describe today will do a great deal to support my local small business , as well as large investor come into my constituency . I wholeheartedly support and welcome the measure set out today , and I be grateful for the opportunity to speak . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the charter for budget responsibility be at the heart of the OBR ' s function , set the Government ' s fiscal rule , as well as the OBR ' s broad remit and how it be to perform its duty . it be important to stress just how vital the OBR be for the sound management of our public finance and for the UK ' s economic stability . I be very proud that the OBR be set up during my party ' s time in office , and the Liberal Democrats have back it at every turn since . in our most recent general election manifesto we say that every fiscal event should be accompany by an OBR report , and we be pleased that this Government be take the same approach . we also call on the Government at the time to establish the OBR to assess general election manifesto independently . unfortunately , commitment to the OBR as an institution can not be take for grant , as we have see over the past few year . we see Liz Truss ' s Conservative Government sideline the independent watchdog at the mini - Budget and cast doubt on its forecast at every turn . equally unfortunately , we all witness the consequence : soar interest rate , sky - high mortgage bill and a spike in the cost of service our national debt . we Liberal Democrats be crystal clear that we can never have a repeat of that debacle . the hon . Lady be make an excellent speech . will she also reflect on the disastrous impact on pension saving , and particularly on people who be draw their define contribution pension at that point in time ? some of my constituent have awful experience , which they relay to I . the hon . Gentleman be right to point to the fact that many people be impact by the mini - Budget in different way . [ interruption . ] I hear chuntere from a sedentary position from the shadow Minister , the hon . member for North Bedfordshire ( Richard Fuller ) . those on the conservative Benches may want to forget the impact of the mini - Budget , but many of our constituent across the country continue to live with the consequence . in the run - up to the Labour Government ' s Budget , we Liberal Democrats welcome one of the Government ' s new fiscal rule — namely , the switch to public sector net financial liability as the target measure of debt . we be pleased that the Chancellor make a change that will create more room for productive public investment , while also make a commitment that debt as a share of GDP should keep fall . we Liberal Democrats have long recognise the need to boost public investment in a responsible way , and we be glad that the Government have move in that direction . however , as we debate the new charter , it be also worth reflect on how fiscal rule be treat in our politic more broadly . although they be absolutely necessary for economic stability , there be too often a sense that fiscal target can be arbitrary and that they be choose base on what be convenient for each Government ; previous Conservative Chancellors change the fiscal rule five time in seven year between 2015 and 2022 . what often seem to be lack throughout the process be a sober , pragmatic dialogue about what the good fiscal rule be for our economy , for everything from growth and investment to job and net zero — a discussion perhaps ideally not affect by politic , but focus on what be right for our economy . notwithstanding that , and although I hope we will all agree to these change in the borrowing rule , the cost of borrow clearly rely on good economic management , which , in turn , as the Chief Secretary say , rely on stability . borrowing cost have go up in part due to event abroad , but they have also rise because of the Government ' s job tax , the uncertainty over their business rate reform and the impact that that will have on small business . it be therefore clearly important that we recognise that any change to productive borrowing must go hand in hand with the responsible management of day - to - day spending and tax change . a second point , which I make in an early debate around the time of the Budget , be that although the Liberal Democrats welcome productive borrowing for investment , we recognise that the Government ' s headroom be quite slim . will the Minister be able to offer a word or two about which measure the Government be take to ensure that we have a resilient economy that can withstand any external shock ? we live in a very uncertain world . there be rumour of trade war and tariff , and God forbid we have another pandemic . it be only by have a resilient economy that we can withstand unpredictable external shock . there be several element in the charter that we support , and we do not want to stand in its way , but I express the hope that , from here on in , we may be able to adopt an approach to fiscal rule that be more pragmatic , open and ground in what be good for our british economy . I thank right hon . and hon . member for this afternoon ' s debate . I will reflect on some of their question and comment in wind up the debate . to begin , I can provide assurance to the shadow Chief Secretary , the hon . member for North Bedfordshire ( Richard Fuller ) . he be concerned that the Labour party have mislead the public . there could not be anything far from the truth . in the manifesto , the wording be very clear . we would have two fiscal rule : first , to bring day - to - day spending in line with receipt ; and secondly , that debt would fall as a share of the economy . those be our fiscal rule . now , he be right that we define debt at the Budget , but that do not change the fiscal rule . the fiscal rule be that debt should be fall as a share of the economy . that be the fiscal rule . [ interruption . ] it be the fiscal rule ; there be no debate about it . it be as clear as the letter on a page . as be allude to in the debate , the Chancellor choose a well - establish metric for debt — psnfl , public sector net financial liability — which recognise the fact that a competent Government can invest in the country and get a return for the taxpayer . the Chief Secretary to the Treasury be make a bizarre comment . the point be that the Chancellor state in 2023 that she would not fiddle the figure . she have now change the number . the definition of debt for public sector net debt exclude the Bank of England be different from her psnfl . they be different . it enable the Chancellor to borrow more . that be fiddle the figure to achieve an objective . it be not the same , and she do not tell the truth when she say that she would not fiddle the figure . that be a very strong accusation , which I refute in the strong term . the Chancellor be very clear that debt would be fall as a share of the economy . that be the fiscal rule . as predict by the OBR , we will deliver on that promise . it be right that the Chancellor choose at the Budget to define debt as public sector net financial liability . the big question be why . as the Liberal Democrat spokesperson , the hon . member for St Albans ( Daisy Cooper ) say , it be because have a Government with stability and competence at their core mean that we be borrow not to pay for out of control day - to - day spending , which I think everyone in the House would agree be an unsustainable path to high debt burden , but instead borrow responsibly within guard rail for investment , predominantly alongside the private sector , to enable , for example , infrastructure delivery across the country or investment in business , for example , through the national wealth fund . the reason that the public sector net financial liability debt rule be important in that context be because it reflect the fact that , where Government have an equity stake or have provide debt for non - commercial term , there be a rate of return . the taxpayer receive some of the benefit of that investment and growth in the economy , which I be sure we would all welcome . there be the important difference about the type of debt . under the last Administration , debt be spiral out of control because the last government could not pay their day - to - day bill . everybody know , whether they be run their household finance or the country ' s finance , that that be not a sustainable thing to do . that have change under this government . debt will be for productive investment only and day - to - day cost will be meet by revenue . yes , that mean that public service have to live within their mean , and often that mean difficult discussion in the spending review that I have to conduct with Secretaries of State , to which the hon . Gentleman allude . however , all of we around the Cabinet table recognise not only the non - negotiable nature of the fiscal rule , which be the foundation of economic stability , but the prize of the modernisation and reform of our public service . he will have hear the Prime Minister and other Secretaries of State talk about just that fact . there be a huge amount of opportunity to achieve well outcome for people at low cost , not just through basic technology but by improve the way we deliver public service . that mean deliver service design around the person and how they wish to interact with the Government . it mean that people can receive support from different Departments and different function , and they can receive the information they need at the time they need it . let I give one example . in the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Filton and Bradley Stoke ( Claire Hazelgrove ) — just north of my Bristol North West constituency — I visit a community diagnostic centre . the CDC programme begin under the last Administration , but we have commit ourselves to it . the provider work in partnership with the NHS trust , charge exactly the same rate as the hospital for a diagnostic scan . the company involve do not make profit in comparison with the hospital cost ; it be the same NHS tariff rate . People can have MRI and CT scan , gastroscopy , and other test . the centre be attach to a branch of Asda and there be plenty of free parking . I ask the owner , " why be you able to charge the same rate as the hospital in my constituency while run this service more effectively ? " they say , " we be open for 14 hour a day from Monday to Saturday and for 12 hour on Sunday , we sweat the asset more than a hospital can , and we have new bit of kit with AI that be more productive to use " — which be why the Health Secretary want to roll those out across the NHS . they also say that the customer service be the key driver for productivity , because customer could book their appointment and move they if necessary , they could visit the centre after work , and they could go there between shopping trip . essentially , the service have be design around the patient . patient turn up pretty much all the time , and they be never not able to do so . that be just one example of the way we be modernise public service . the Chief Secretary have give a fantastic example of how improve capital infrastructure in the NHS can improve productivity , but one of the big frustration in the NHS be the fact that staff can not be productive because the building around they be fall apart . I have see that in Watford General hospital , where A & E staff can not be as productive as they might be because they be in a crumbling , cramped hospital . have the Treasury consider conduct any assessment of the productivity gain that could be produce by the new hospital programme , and by potentially speed up the delivery of those hospital ? the Health Secretary be actively work on this . there be huge opportunity , not just in the NHS but in the Department for Work and Pensions where my right hon . and hon . friend be work , and throughout Government as a whole . imagine have a jobcentre in your pocket , on your phone , where you can gain access to the support that you need — as oppose to service that be often out of town or not available when you be available , and where there be difficult process to go through . that be not great for the people who work in those service . they be there to serve the public , but they be not help to achieve the right outcome for people . this Government be commit to reform but also to investment , because we can achieve well outcome for people and reduce the cost of run public service in the long run . we be committed to unlock investment , whether it be through the PSNFL debt definition for infrastructure and business or , as a consequence , free up public sector grant for public sector investment . my hon . friend the Member for read Central ( Matt Rodda ) make a number of excellent point . I be pleased that he be supportive of the commitment make by the Chancellor today to back the Heathrow plan and the enormous opportunity present by the Oxford - Cambridge growth corridor . he give the great example of his local technology and telecom cluster and its development around rail infrastructure , include extra capacity on the Elizabeth line . it be a classic and probably obvious example : if rail and other transport infrastructure be build , people will come and invest in lab space , office and home . that be why the Chancellor make such a strong commitment today to get infrastructure build and enable private sector investment . my hon . Friend also make a good point about the role of university . our university sector be one of our great strength . we have a number of world - lead university , as well as the brilliant university that be teach and carry out research in every part of our country . these be often the engine of economic growth in their region , and also the gateway to opportunity for many people . the Chief Secretary have refer to the great benefit of infrastructure project . the Elizabeth line be a very good example of that , but it be way over budget and very late , and the same apply to HS2 and most other big infrastructure project . what plan do the Government have in that regard ? later we will discuss the welfare cap , an attempt to control welfare spending for the next five year . do the same cap apply to infrastructure project ? I thank the right hon . member for his question , because he invite I to talk the House through our infrastructure strategy . for the first time , we be bring together Government plan on economic infrastructure , housing and social infrastructure in the same place . it mean that when we go through the spending review in the Treasury , work with colleague across Whitehall , we will be much well than the previous Government at take place - base decision . in the past , it be a bilateral discussion between a Department and the Treasury , with no dot be connect between different type of infrastructure . that have lead to the failure to capture the growth potential in different place . we will take a different approach and make sure that infrastructure investment relate to public investment be cap by the number set out in the Budget . that be the spending envelope that we have , and we have to prioritise those investment , but they will be base on drive growth and opportunity for people in the place in which they live . my hon . friend the Member for Reading Central make a great point about the Oxford - Cambridge growth corridor , the role of connect some of our great university , and unleash the opportunity that exist between they . as I say to the House early , the living connectivity arrangement between Oxford and Cambridge be basically non - existent . by connect these two hub of innovation and investment , the opportunity be endless . I have to be careful , because I have a significant constituency interest in this issue , but I want to ask a more general question about the role of infrastructure investment and the fiscal rule . East West Rail ' s proposal to complete the railway line have a benefit - cost ratio of 0 . 3 in its last business case : building it would basically lose 70p of every pound of taxpayer ' money . do the Chief Secretary to the Treasury regard that as a loss ? if not , will there be a business case that show that the project have a benefit - cost ratio that do not lose taxpayer ' money ? that be a great question . all these infrastructure opportunity will go through both value - for - money assessment and growth assessment . the argument that we have be make today be that initiate project such as the East West Rail line in a co - ordinate way with private capital , university and our house building plan lift the growth opportunity that come from those project . that be why Patrick Vallance have be appoint as the champion of the growth corridor . we will take a whole - corridor view on the investment and the opportunity across different investment , regardless of whether they be public or private , but they will all have to go through value - for - money and growth assessment . the infrastructure strategy will be a 10 - year strategy . it will give a long - term view on economic , housing and social infrastructure , but they will be underpin by long - term capital budget . the capital budget that we will set in June will be for four year , until 2029 - 30 , but the normal approach , as set out in the charter , will be that the capital budget will be for five year . as the House know , we have commit to do the next spending review every subsequent two year . in 2027 , when we conduct the next spending review , we will have the 10 - year infrastructure strategy but also pretty much 10 year of capital budget be allocate for those project . that be a hugely important signal to investor . we be work with industry and investor on what the biannual pipeline might look like , so that we can publish in real term the investable proposition , but also so that business know that work be come if they invest in their supply chain or their workforce . that be a crucial part of unlock investment in skill and training in our country . much like we have just see in the water industry , which have agree a long - term investment settlement , supplier be already tell we that they be now able to invest in staff , training and capability , because they know that the flow of investment will be come over a period of time . we be seek to do that across a range of infrastructure in order to unlock the investment that this country need . I should like to ask my right hon . friend some further question on the point he be make . the Elizabeth line demonstrate the case that he be make for the importance of place - base investment and the way in which house , flat and business have be build near station . there have be a combination of public and private investment in the project , which be arguably part of its success . so I welcome the point he be make about the longevity of the infrastructure investment , the role of the joint investment or co - ordinate investment with the private sector and , above all , the place - base nature of this . the role of Patrick Vallance , in particular , be an important one in that corridor . I would also urge my right hon . friend again to look at the far end of the corridor , both at the Oxfordshire and Berkshire end and also possibly towards Norwich and far into East Anglia . I know that a former Minister in the previous Government have be highlight the potential benefit of investment along rail in East Anglia . I thank my hon . friend for his intervention . he remind I that the right hon . member for Islington North ( Jeremy Corbyn ) ask I about broad reform to ensure that infrastructure be deliver differently from how it have be in the past , and I would point the House to the action that minister have already take to call in project that have be gum up in the system for a long time , which we have allow to take place , and also to the Planning and Infrastructure Bill that will be present to the House in due course , which will show the level of ambition this Government have for streamline planning and consent process so that we can get thing build . as I have already mention , I think today in the House , the fact that we can build a house for someone in 14 to 16 week but it seem to take year to get plan approve show the size of the prize for deliver for people across the country . I will end by thank the liberal Democrat spokesperson , the hon . member for St Albans , for her comment and for remind the House why this debate matter and why the fiscal rule matter . because , as we see under the last Administration , this be not an obscure debate here in the House of Commons , or a kind of whitehall guidance debate ; this be important to people ' s life , because when government lose control of the economy nationally , it hit family finance . we all know from talk to our constituent how stressful it be when the conservative party lose control of the economy and when inflation go through the roof . it have a direct impact on people ' s mortgage and on their ability to buy a house . so many people lose their mortgage offer overnight because of the action of the last government . it also affect people in the private rent sector when their landlord increase the rent , and because no - fault eviction be allow under the last government , many people lose their home . this fundamental insecurity in people ' s live stem from the action of politician here in Government . that be why the fiscal rule be so important and why the Chancellor — and indeed the whole government — be so iron - clothe in their commitment to they . that be why the fiscal rule be non - negotiable . [ interruption . ] Shadow Ministers on the Conservative Benches laugh , but I would encourage they to meet some of our constituent and to explain why their action lead to such hardship for they . I have not even start to talk about the cost of energy bill or the food inflation that we be still struggle with today , directly as a consequence of the mismanagement of the economy under the last Administration . the soon the Conservatives — should they wish to receive advice from I — apologise for the consequence of their action , the soon the public might start to listen to they again . but while they be listen to this Labour Government , I can reassure hon . and right hon . member in the House today that the fiscal rule be non - negotiable . they be the bedrock of economic stability . they enable we to invest in our public service in a sustainable way , to secure growth in the economy and , ultimately , as set out in the Prime Minister ' s plan for change , to deliver for work people so that they will know in the year ahead that life be well under a Labour Government than it be under a Conservative Government . question put and agree to . resolve , that the Charter for Budget Responsibility : Autumn 2024 , which be lay before this House on 22 January , be approve . Welfare Cap with the permission of the House , the motion relate to the welfare cap will be debate together . I beg to move , that , pursuant to the Charter for Budget Responsibility : Autumn 2022 update , which be approve by this House on 6 February 2023 under section 1 of the Budget Responsibility and National Audit Act 2011 , this House agree that the forecast breach of the welfare cap in 2024 – 25 due to high forecast expenditure on Universal Credit and disability benefit be justify and that no further debate will be require in relation to this specific breach . with this it will be convenient to discuss the follow motion : that the level of the welfare cap , as specify in the Autumn Budget 2024 , which be lay before this House on 30 October 2024 , be approve . before this Government be elect , we say that we would change this country , and we will . to get change do , any Government have to stand on firm foundation , which be why , as we have just hear from the Chief Secretary to the Treasury , we promise to be responsible with the public ' s money . we know that every penny count in this mission , because if we fail to protect the public purse , we fail to protect the purse of the public . family finance can never withstand fantasy economic . that be suppose to be the whole point of the welfare cap . it be design to help well control public spending , count the cost of the rise price of failure . I will come to some of the failure we be now see and the people throw on the scrapheap as a result of the failure of 14 year of economic policy , particularly on the labour market . the welfare cap be intend to ensure that the cost of important part of the social security system , such as universal credit — though not count those actively look for work — the personal independence payment and pension credit , remain predictable and affordable . only the state pension and benefit for unemployed household be exclude . what be the result of a decade of conservative welfare cap ? repeat breach of the cap , with ever high limit . the late cap be now on course to be breach by an £ 8 . 6 billion overspend . this be not tolerable , give the state of our economy and the public finance . [ Official Report , 12 February 2025 ; Vol . 762 , c . 5wc . ] ( correction ) worse still , there be the human cost for every single person who could be enjoy the benefit of work but have be deny the choice and chance they deserve . I regularly meet people in that position . there be the young person who have not recover from the dreadful legacy of the pandemic — not in college , not start their first job , barely even able to go out with friend , and bear the burden of the mental health crisis that our young people face . I believe the pandemic generation be completely let down . there be our old relative who have be push out of work before their time with hip or knee pain . the NHS be just not able to help they at the moment , and they be not even get advice about how to make end meet . that be the legacy we inherit , and it be not good enough for anybody . it be also the legacy of low growth , the high cost of living and high inactivity , with employment and social security system ill equip to meet the requirement of an old , sicker nation . that be the conservative party ' s record . unfortunately , this breach — forecast as far back as March 2023 but ignore — be now wholly unavoidable in this fiscal year , give the scale of failure we have inherit . we will not duck the difficult decision need to restore economic stability , and we will deal with the failure we see before we . before I say how we will do that , I want to reflect on exactly how we end up in this situation . the sad truth be that , in way too many part of the country , too many people be deny the opportunity to have a good job so that they can support themselves and put a roof over their family ' s head . the benefit bill only reflect that failure , with 2 . 8 million people lock out of the workforce due to poor health , and 3 . 4 million more working - age people report a long - term health condition than 10 year ago . we have large number of people turn up to a social security system that be not gear up to meet what have become the great unemployment challenge of a generation . my hon . friend be do a compelling job of set out the damn state of the welfare system we inherit when we take charge . do she agree that investment in the NHS , so that people finally have the healthcare support they need , be fundamental to make sure they can get back to work , contribute as they would like and build a secure future for themselves and their family ? the NHS be the bedrock that ensure people can thrive and contribute to society , economically and in every other way . we also need to ensure that the health support people get be the right support . at the moment , we be not do enough on occupational therapy and other thing that provide health support tailor to people ' s work . we will have more to say about that in the near future , I be sure . a huge number of people be turn to a social security system that be not gear up to meet the huge employment challenge . at the moment , social security can not cope . hon . member may ask themselves how on earth we get to this place , after 14 year of so - call benefit crackdown by the Conservatives . well , I invite everybody to look at their record . when universal credit be introduce 12 year ago , the Government of the day make all sort of promise . they say it would " break the cycle of benefit dependency " and offer " great incentive to find a job " . the former Secretary of State for Work and Pensions , the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) , say that universal credit " will ensure that work always pay and be see to pay " , but what have we see since ? a disastrous series of wrong - head choice that have achieve precisely the opposite effect . new datum , which we be publish today for the first time , show the extent of the effect of universal credit on incapacity benefit . there have be increase of 800 , 000 people receive incapacity benefit between 2018 and 2023 . around 10 % of that increase be because of the rise state pension age and another 10 % because of the way change be make in the move from employment support allowance and other benefit to universal credit , a situation that should have be foresee and plan for by the previous Government . that leave an increase of over 500 , 000 people , to which I will now turn . the Conservatives need to take a long hard look at the change they make to universal credit . we must consider how people transition between the " look for work " group in the universal credit health journey , where they be tell that they have limit capacity to do any work or work - relate activity , to " actively look for work " . how do people move between be tell they can not work and be tell to actively look for work ? People move between those two group use to receive a top - up to their benefit , but that be remove in 2017 , create a hard barrier between those categorise as incapable for work and those look for work . in addition , there be a four - year freeze to the rate of universal credit in the late 2010 , except the high tier of health - relate benefit . as a result , the income of those try to find work be squeeze , and the barrier between those on universal credit actively look for work and those who have be tell that they be unable to work be harden . we have see a steady rise in the number of people on the high tier of health benefit , where there be no requirement to look for work or to get any help to make the step on that journey , and no support to find job when many people actually want to work . all the while , there have be more and more condition and box tick in a system that have fail . social security be design to smooth people ' s income over time and to take account of life event that could happen to any of we , but the result of all the change be that either by design or mismanagement — probably both — the previous Government create a social security system that segregate people away from work and forget about they . there be no help back to work , and only the promise that they would be leave alone . the Office for Budget Responsibility have say that " the wide benefit system — in particular the conditionality and generosity associate with incapacity benefit relative to other part of the system — have affect incapacity benefit flow over time " . unfortunately , that situation , create by the last government , be far from the only problem , because social security will only ever function where the Government take their wide duty seriously . on the point of support for people who be on benefit , the Social Security Act 1986 end the requirement on the now Department for Work and Pensions to provide advice and welfare support to people . will it now be the policy of the DWP to automatically offer advice and support to people on the benefit they be entitle to claim , or to give more support to voluntary advice agency so that people get what they be entitle to ? we publish in November an extensive reform programme for the Department to get Britain work . we show how in some part of the country — I will come to this in more detail shortly — people have be abandon and their labour market have not support enough good job for a very long time . we show how , by act on well health and well local support service , we will reintroduce ambition into our support service . we want to help people get into a job that will support their family finance and help our economy thrive . we have a huge change programme underway in the Department for Work and Pensions , and we will be do even more than we set out in that White Paper . the challenge be huge , but the potential be also massive . I worry about everybody who be out of work , but particularly our young people , who have effectively be throw on the scrapheap . it be a disaster now in exactly the same way that it be a disaster , bring about by the economic turbulence that I grow up in , in the 1980 , which be the period the right hon . member refer to . we will therefore take the challenge of restore employment — proper employment — in this country extremely seriously . in do that , I want to talk about the Government ' s wide responsibility , not just in reform the social security system but far beyond that . you will forgive I , Madam Deputy Speaker , if I return to the found document of our social security system , the Beveridge report . in 1942 , William Beveridge identify the " establishment of comprehensive health and rehabilitation service , and maintenance of employment … as necessary condition of success " in social security . that lesson be forget again and again in this country , and we will never have a social security system that function well unless we have an nhs that work and we maintain policy design to move towards full employment . social security can not soak up every single problem in this country if the Government forget their wide responsibility . I note that the Beveridge report consider the consequence of war and the injury to the nation that that have bring about . in many way , we ought to learn the lesson of the pandemic : that the health of the nation can never be take for grant and that , in set we on the right path in term of both health and employment , we can plot a course towards a more sustainable future . as I have say , be it any wonder that our social security system be break give the health of the nation , give what we have be through and give the last government ' s neglect of the NHS and the state of our labour market ? to look backwards again for a moment , we know that in our country ' s economic history , we have period when whole town and city be deindustrialise and leave to fend for themselves . economy simply fail , and while great progress have be make , include in my constituency , in my city region in Merseyside and in other place whose economy have move on greatly since that time , sadly , too many have never properly recover . as a result , we have a labour market that simply fail to offer good work everywhere . as part of our " get Britain work " White Paper analysis , we find that when student be not count , the inactivity rate , to give the example of Blackpool , be 29 % . that be nearly a third of working age people . that can never be a good platform on which to build a thriving economy , and I be determined that we will turn it around . More than half of the 20 local authority with the high rate of inactivity in England be in the north , while none be in the south - east . it be , however , far from a north - south divide . we have identify 14 type of labour market in the United Kingdom and consider their feature : what they share and what divide they . we want to identify those place that be furth behind , precisely so that we can help . it be not just the prevail economic circumstance or what have happen in the recent past to a local authority that defeat people , but , unfortunately , the jobcentre that be suppose to be there to help . when we do our analysis for our " get Britain work " White Paper , we uncover the record of the last Conservative Government . I be shocked to find that only around 8 % — only 8 % — of universal credit claimant in the " search for work " group move into work from one month to the next . in the " no work requirement " group , 92 % be still there after six month . that be the very definition of be on the scrapheap : no work and no help to get work . that be just fail people . then there be the price tag . spend on universal credit and disability benefit be £ 10 . 9 billion high than anticipate when the level of the welfare cap be calculate . that be a dreadful record . for the reason that I set out early , the breach of the cap be unavoidable this year , but this Government be take the action necessary to drive up opportunity in employment while drive down the benefit bill . our " get Britain work " White Paper , as I have mention , set out the big reform to employment in a generation , with a radical new approach back by £ 240 million of investment . we be overhaul our jobcentre and create a new job and career service , do away with needless admin and free up work coach time , so that my colleague can give real , high - quality support to people . although I be often disappointed in the help that people receive in jobcentre , I be never disappoint by what our work coach do . the thing that let the work coach down be the system in which they work . for example , they be tell that they can see someone for only 10 minute . how be they suppose to help in 10 minute ? they have to carry out numerous admin check that could be do with modern technology , when the person in front of they be just sit there wait , not receive any help . our work coach be full of idea , full of local knowledge and full of determination that we will make a new system work . I take this opportunity to put on record my thank to every single DWP member of staff who have embrace change with gusto . when I visit the jobcentre in St Albans last year I , too , be strike by the fantastic support give by some of the work coach . however , I be also strike by what some of the jobseeker have to say . one say that she have be in full employment , but have to give up her job to look after her two child because they could not get the special educational need and disability support that they need in school . another say that they be struggle with addiction and could not hold down a job because they could not get the support need from the NHS . do the Minister agree that , while our work coach be do a really good job , ultimately , we need to get our public service , particularly the NHS , back on their foot ? I agree with the hon . Lady . can we just take this moment to thank the DWP team in St Albans ? they sound like they be do a great job and they be also brief their local MP , which be really good of they . I encourage all colleague in the House to ensure that they have a regular catch - up with their jobcentre colleague so that they know the kind of thing that our work coach have to deal with . often , member of Parliament can be quite helpful in put people in touch with other organisation , so I encourage all colleague to do as the hon . Lady have do . on the point that the hon . Lady make about SEND , she be absolutely right : this be a major barrier . if member want to understand what a struggle to get to work and to stay in work look like , they should ask the parent of a disabled child . this issue of where the effect of poverty and the SEND crisis can compound be be consider by the child poverty taskforce in particular . the hon . Lady be absolutely right : good public service and a good , strong economy go hand in hand . it be not " public service or a strong economy " — we call that ideology " austerity " , and it do not work . the two go hand in hand . we need to look in that rounded way to see how we can help people , and that be the approach that we be take . we want to make every jobcentre in the country a place that people who be look for work , and employer , will actually want to use . we know that what happen early on in a career echo down the year ; as I have say , our young people — the pandemic generation — be fail . that be why our youth guarantee will give every 18 to 20 - year - old access to quality education , training or employment . on top of that , we be work with local leader who know their town and city well , support they to produce their own local " get Britain work " plan that join up work , health and skill to support their community . I have mention the major fracture still in the UK economy follow previous economic event that be not manage properly . that be how we know that the same thing just will not work everywhere . the DWP will reform itself so that we be able to localise support service , and we will work with local leader to do that . all of that will ensure that we help people to enjoy the benefit that good work bring to wellbee — and I do mean " good work " . the choice in this country should never be between the scar of unemployment and the scar of poor work that do nothing but keep people poor . poor work do not reduce the pressure on our social security system ; it just mean more people work too hard for their poverty . that be why we will improve the security and quality of work through our plan to make work pay . we will create more good job in every part of the country with a modern industrial strategy and local growth plan . together , they will help we to meet our long - term ambition for an 80 % employment rate . we will create the condition for success in social security . as I have outline , the change make to social security be ill - thought through . a fresh approach be need to make our social security system sustainable , and we will build that system to give people the help that they need to find great job and feel the benefit of work . we want to tackle poverty and target support at those who need it most . we will set out our proposal in a Green Paper on reform the health and disability system in the spring . we will work with disabled people and their organisation to get that right . a strong social security system need the confidence of we all . anyone might suddenly find themselves unwell or with the extra cost that child bring , and we all hope one day to enjoy the benefit of the state pension , so we must protect the social security system now and in the future . not only do we confirm at the autumn Budget that we would keep a welfare cap in place with a margin of 5 % to account for the volatility of recent forecast , but later this year we will publish a new annual report on social security spending across Government , set out the DWP ' s plan to ensure that it be on a sustainable path . the day of set spending target without a proper plan to meet they be over . if next year ' s report recommend an increase in welfare spending , would that be impossible within this cap , or will she come back to Parliament to ask for a change in the cap well ahead of its 2029 expiration ? in the specific of our proposal , we will publish a Green Paper on health and disability in the come month . with regard to the financial control , we will do all that the Chief Secretary to the Treasury set out some moment ago on allow the Office for Budget Responsibility to perform its function . that be the good way to ensure that we take fiscal decision within the guardrail that he set out . the result of 14 year of failure be unfortunately only too obvious , as I say early . everywhere we look in this country , we can see the impact of what the previous Government do . too many people in far too many place be neglect and fail , starve of opportunity , and leave to turn to a social security system that just be not work . everybody in this country suffer the consequence . I be not sure how long the Minister have leave in her speech , but I have a question about the welfare cap . we be be ask to make two decision : to approve the welfare cap , and to note the breach . she have make the case for how the Government be try to get Britain work and why the breach have happen this year , but so far she have not make the case for why they be put in a welfare cap this year and why we parliamentarian should agree to it . I do make the case for the overall welfare cap and for that policy at the beginning of my speech , because it be important that we have proper control on public spending . fantasy economic will do absolutely nothing to support family finance and the Government be determined that we will manage public finance in a responsible fashion . the result of failure be far too obvious ; we all pay the consequence . that be why we will not stand for it . every penny count , but so do the future of every person in this country . that be why , in order to ensure we save every penny for the thing we want to spend on in social security , we be bring forward the big welfare fraud and error package in recent history . we be not just tweak a broken system ; we be go to fundamentally change the way we approach reform , start with the principle of focus on people . we will tackle the root cause of unemployment — whether you be out of work because you can not find a job or be out of work because the last Government write you off , everybody deserve to build a well life and fulfil their potential . I be proud to be a Labour MP . Labour be the party of the dignity of work . we know that , for those who be able to , the good place to be be in work with a well - pay job with good right . do my hon . friend agree that the previous Government do far too little to ensure that people who could work be help back into work to get all the benefit and dignity that work can bring , and that they write off far too many people , which have leave we in this sorry state ? I be glad that my hon . friend be proud to be a Labour MP , as be I , and I be glad he be proud of the approach we be take on employment , because so be I . we can not afford this failure any long in the cost to our public finance . we will never tolerate the failure in hope , dignity , ambition and opportunity that the level of unemployment in this country now represent . the welfare cap we be debate today be introduce back in 2014 by the Conservative Chancellor at the time , George Osborne , to hold the Government to account on the cost of our welfare system . through the 2010 , in government , we broadly keep to that cap ; it be part of the discipline we apply to the welfare system to make it fair for the taxpayer and to put into practice the strongly hold conservative principle that if you can work , you should work . we introduce universal credit to ensure that work always pay and support business to create million of job , and we help thousand of people into work and drive down economic inactivity — and be oppose at every step of the way by the Labour party . but in the year during and since the pandemic — I will not shy away from tell the truth — thing change . while the number of job keep go up , the number of people economically inactive also start to go up , and with that , the welfare bill , and that be a big problem . it be a financial problem that mean we be today debate a welfare cap which have be breach . it be an economic problem because our economy need the talent and energy of everyone . and it be a social problem : of the 9 million people of working age define as economically inactive , 2 . 8 million be not work because of ill health . that include grow number of young people . young people be start out on a life on benefit instead of start out on a career , miss out on the opportunity that work bring — the sense of purpose , the connection with other people , the chance to learn and develop skill — miss out on the experience of be pay for their effort , and miss out on the chance to build financial independence and security . we as a country have a moral and financial imperative to turn this around and in government we be work flat out to tackle it . will the hon . Lady acknowledge that under the last Conservative Government inactivity rate among the young be the high in the OECD , and that they be work on it , but it be not work ? as I be sure the hon . Gentleman hear , I be just acknowledge the fact that the economic inactivity rate start go up in the run - up to and particularly follow the pandemic . we have a particular concern , which I be sure the Government share , around grow inactivity among young people . it be a challenge that we be experience more than other country , and there be a lot of work to do to get to the bottom of it . I be involve in that work in government as a Health Minister , and it be imperative that the new Government get a grip on that issue . will the right hon . member give way ? I will make some progress . in government , we be work flat out to tackle that problem . we be change how we assess people ' s capability for work , recognise that the world of work have change . we develop WorkWell to help people with health condition or disability find and stay in work , and we be reform the fit note that GPs give people . once again , we be oppose by Labour every step of the way . we also have plan to go far . in our manifesto , we commit to £ 12 billion - worth of saving by reform sickness benefit . Labour respond at the time by say that the money be simply not there , and the present Chancellor say that not a single penny could be save from welfare . it turn out that , on this one occasion , Labour have stick to its word : it have no plan to control welfare spending . today , the Government be set a welfare cap that do not include a penny ' s worth of saving at a staggering £ 195 billion by 2029 - 30 — a 44 % increase on this year ' s cap . in cash term , that be more than our entire defence budget . not content with not save a single penny , they have give themselves a £ 10 billion buffer on top of that . that lack of ambition be terrifying . we believe that money can and should be save from the welfare bill . the Chancellor finally seem to agree with we , because she have be busy brief the paper in a panic about cut spending . but where be those plan ? unfortunately , she have not get any because , as I say , until now she do not believe any saving could be make . perhaps the Employment Minister can give we some clue . I believe she have can my fit note reform , so what will she do to get the welfare bill down and by when ? how on earth do she expect to get people into work when 50 , 000 people be add to the unemployment figure in December alone ? I think I be be ask whether we stop the extensive work that the previous Government be do on rise inactivity . I have to say that when I get into the Department for Work and Pensions , there be not an extensive plan available . that be why we have have to embark on fundamental reform , which we set out in a White Paper in November , and that be why we will shortly be bring forward a Green Paper on health and disability reform . the idea that somehow there be an instruction list leave in the Department that we could just crack on with be a fantasy . the hon . Lady will know — at least I think she will know — that the vast majority of what she set out in the White Paper be the continuation of thing we be do in government . in fact , if she have read it she will see that it even say that the youth guarantee be essentially a new name for a repackage set of measure that be already in place . that be literally in the White Paper . I be happy to follow up with she afterwards on the page that she will find that phrase on . I have yet to see a single sign to suggest that this government can tackle the welfare bill , and the cap they be set today tell we that they agree . the opposition will support effort to bring down welfare cost sensibly . we need a compassionate safety net , but that net should never become a trap . if the government do not get a grip of the problem , it will put our entire social contract at risk . minister have finally twig that action be require — a Green Paper be , they say , on its way . I urge the hon . Lady to get on with it , because each month that pass see thousand more drift out of work and into a life of inactivity . every person in this country should be able to live a decent life , but too many of we be unable to earn a decent wage . that be what be push up social security spending , lead to the motion that we be debate today . too many people be force to claim sickness benefit because the NHS have fail they ; there be not enough well - pay job ; and people do not engage with the social security system that the conservative party leave we , because it demonise and attack they . that leave we as an incoming Labour Government with a choice between massive implement cut to social security this year and technically breach the welfare cap . I be proud that this Government have choose to breach that cap rather than drive people into destitution . I be proud that we will get people who want to work into work , and that we will change the system for the future to ensure that people be not leave as they have be for the past 14 year . I be proud that this government will ensure that every person have the support they need when they need it . our nation be sick , and thing need to change — specifically , three thing . first , our NHS need to shift . after 14 year of mismanagement and the disastrous Lansley reform , we have almost 3 million people out of work . we be the only G7 nation to see sickness rise during the pandemic and after it as well . every single one of we see that degradation and damage when we try to get an appointment with our local gp . that be what we need to fix in the year ahead . secondly , we must transform our low - pay , low - training economy , which do not provide enough good job or pay enough to live . thousand of people be unable to turn on the heating because they can not afford it , and thousand be unable to eat ; nurse be force to go to food bank . around 70 % of child in poverty be in work family , and be cold and hungry make people sicker . too many people in this country go straight from school into sickness ; the number of young people in this nation who be too sick to be active in the labour market have almost double since 2013 . those be the problem that we will be fix in the year ahead . the third thing that need to change , of course , be the punitive social security system that push people to the brink . when people could not see their gp , could not earn enough to live a decent life and be too scared to go to the jobcentre , they stop work altogether . that have lead we in this country into a toxic doom loop , with sicker people have less money in their pocket and become too sick to work , lead to high social security payment . the amount we be spend on social security be a sign not of the former Conservative Government ' s generosity , but of their failure . that be what we will be address in the year ahead . the amount that we be spend on sickness and disability benefit have rise from £ 42 billion in 2010 to £ 65 billion today , and that be in real term , not nominal term . that be an increase of around 40 % to 50 % . that be why we will breach the cap by £ 8 . 6 billion this year , rather than impose devastating and swingeing cut on those who already can not afford to eat . we on the Labour Benches know that food bank be not an integral part of our welfare system ; they be a symbol of failure . these be the thing that we must change in the future . we need change not simply to policy but in attitude . for 14 year it be say that every person who be fail to earn enough be somehow a skiver . that be wrong , and it drive those who need to engage with the social security system not to engage with it at all . I use to work at the Department for Work and Pensions and I can tell the House that people on both side — those who want to work and those who want to help people into work — be good people who be let down by a bad system . somebody who work in my local jobcentre in Milton Keynes come to visit I last week and tell I about his experience . he currently have to conduct 10 - minute appointment , and as a lot of that time be spend on admin , he be not able to give the necessary help and support to people who be desperate to find a job . do my hon . friend agree that it be really important that this Government , unlike the previous Government , focus on provide the support necessary to get people into work , rather than set a narrative about people be workshy and not want to work , which be not the truth ? I could not agree more with my hon . friend . ten minute be nowhere near enough time for people to get the job support they need . it be not enough for those who be seek help or for those seek to give that help , especially as the economy be change and get a well - pay job require more training . the country change before with the automative revolution , and it be now change with the artificial intelligence revolution . those people need support and help in order to get security , but they be not guarantee it or give it at the moment , and that be the precise intention of the change we be put forward . it be not easy to put forward these change and it will not take a short time , but by start that work today and by change the relationship between those who be seek to give help and those who be receive that help , we can ensure that those who need help will actually receive it . this be not just about those on the ground who be do great work , or indeed about my former brilliant colleague at the DWP . it be also about how we in this House speak about those who need help , who be in poverty or who receive social security payment . we must understand that every single person in this country want to work and want the dignity that come with it , but they be too often let down because of a lack of well - pay job , a lack of support and a lack of dignity afford to they by a party that seek only to demonise . that be what we seek to change in this House and , indeed , in this country . that be the choice before we , and it be why we be make these decision : a technical breach of the welfare cap this year and a more accurate welfare cap in the year ahead , so that we can begin to provide the support that people need . People go to food bank because work do not pay and the two - child cap , for example , mean that they do not have enough money to live on or to support their family . why be the hon . Member support a welfare cap that bake in the two - child limit ? I do not believe that the hon . Member be correct . the welfare cap do not define future decision ; the welfare cap in future year define the total amount that will be spend at that time . we should be clear what the welfare cap refer to . she mention the two - child limit in particular , and Government Members have be clear that choice have to be make in straiten time . we know that child be drive into poverty and that no child deserve to be bear into such circumstance . indeed , we know about the huge and shocking rise in child poverty and child hunger in this country . I know that member across the House be shock by that , but the truth be that we can not make every such decision in this House because these be straiten time . however , I appreciate the intervention and , indeed , the good faith in which it be make . there be a lot we have to change in this country , and I be sure we will do so in the year ahead . the choice before we today be simple . the technical breach this year and the change in the year to come be the right choice , and we be make they for the right reason . many in work today can not make it pay , and that be why we will make sure that people who be in work get the training they need . that be not just about the training they need to get a well job ; it be about the support they need to ensure that their healthcare , and indeed their health , be good enough to continue work . more broadly , we must ensure that every single person in the country can have a decent job that pay enough , and we be take action in three area to do that . first and foremost , there be our action on the NHS and through the Darzi review , because we should not live a country where almost 3 million people be too sick to work . we have offer thousand more appointment to get waiting list down , because people who can not see a gp today be far more likely to end up out of work tomorrow . secondly , we be help people get into work . there be the 16 trailblazer programme to join up work skill and health support , and the £ 115 million to help those with complex need get back into work . thirdly , we be create good job for young people with the youth guarantee , so that every single young person in this country can access the training they need and the apprenticeship they require . the fundamental reform the Chancellor set out in her speech today be also about support people into work so they can contribute to our economy , and do what they need to do to get a decent life for themselves and their family . have a decent job and earn enough to live be about more than the pound in a person ' s pocket ; it be about a sense of contentment and something to talk about with their mate . it give meaning to each day . the hon . Member have talk eloquently about the challenge of get into the workplace . do he realise that a large number of people across our society who be economically inactive have the desire to look for work and have welfare payment to support they get into work , but sometimes through no fault of their own the system work against they ? I thank the hon . member for that point . indeed , that be the entire reason why we be change the system today . yes , it be about practical change and provide more support , but it be also about a change of tone , a change of attitude and treat people like human being . that be exactly what Labour member believe . these reform and support , at their core , be about ensure that every single person have a decent job , which give they meaning and something to talk about with their mate . a previous Labour Government do that so well , and that be how we get poverty down . a previous Member for Sedgefield , who be a shine light for we on the Labour Benches , promise to end child poverty in a generation , and a previous Member for Dunfermline , who be a hero to we , put that into practice and reduce child poverty by almost a million . it be that labour tradition to which I speak . that labour tradition be why I be proud to stand here today , and that be why I be proud to vote in favour of these motion . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . year of mismanagement by the previous Conservative Government damage our economy , hit people ' s living standard and leave our public service on their knee — especially our nhs and care — so it be no wonder that we have see the welfare bill go up . the Conservatives leave GP and hospital waiting time soar . they also see staff vacancy spiral , and local public health funding be slash . the cancer treatment target have be miss every year since 2015 . they promise 6 , 000 gps and leave government with few of they . of course , the 40 new hospital fall apart — literally in some case — lead to inefficiency in our health service as staff and patient battle cramp and crumble building . I remember a former conservative Prime Minister stand on the step of no . 10 and promise to fix social care once and for all , but , as we know , million of people around the UK be leave to pick up the piece of a broken social care system . that disgraceful legacy and the blatant mismanagement of our economy have leave million of people unable to work due to long - term illness and have to rely on support instead , impact growth and productivity . under the last Conservative Government , the number of people not look for work , especially due to ill health , reach record level , and government spending on welfare go up drastically as a result . their mismanagement have leave so many people unable to seek work and reliant instead on Government support . we Liberal Democrats have always understand that a healthy economy require healthy people . as I have say a number of time in the House , health and wealth be two side of the same coin . the good way to bring down welfare spending be for the Government to act with urgency and ambition to end the crisis in our NHS and care , empower people to join the workforce and reduce the need for welfare support in the first place . the Conservatives ' mismanagement of the economy have have a direct impact on decision be make today . at informal assessment in 2020 , 2021 and 2023 , the OBR clearly say that the welfare cap be on track to be breach this year , but the new Labour Government must do far more to fix our health and care service so that few people require Government support in the first place . I have to say that the conservative party have lose every right to criticise the current situation when its fingerprint of failure be all over it . we have previously discuss the impact of the Government ' s national insurance contribution rise and other change . the Government have say repeatedly that these change be inevitable as a way to fund the NHS , but they know , and we know , that some of this be really not need . the national insurance contribution rise will impact our gps , dentist , public health provider , primary care provider , pharmacist , social care provider and hospice — the list go on . those people and business be prop up our NHS . I use this opportunity once again to encourage the Government to reverse the national insurance contribution rise and look to other mean of raise those fund . fundamentally , the good way to bring down welfare spending be for the Government to act with urgency and ambition to end the crisis in our NHS and social care . we Liberal Democrats make that our no . 1 priority during the general election , and with 72 mp , it remain our no . 1 priority in this House . I thank my hon . friend the Minister for her opening speech , on a timely subject as the Government have just lay out their bold and striking ambition to grow our economy and take the tough decision need , after year of dither and delay by the conservative party . today more than on other day , we have see lay out in stark relief the choice before we of either double down on the failure — more of the same — or pick a new route . that be what this debate be about . I want to talk about the root cause of some of the growth issue that we face . but first I want to focus on a number : £ 8 . 6 billion . that be how much the welfare cap be breach by , because of the Conservatives ' failure time and again . that be not a small amount . to put it in some context , it be as much as the entire programme budget of the Department for Work and Pensions . to give another comparison , it be half the entire police grant for all police in England and Wales . it be a phenomenal failure on the part of the Conservatives that we face this issue today , and it be not their only failure in the DWP . my hon . friend the Minister lay out fantastically well the litany of failure . let I pick up one in particular : the Conservatives breach the welfare cap , but we have not have much time to talk about their failure on fraud and error . because of failure on their watch , the number more than double , and be now stick at an elevated post - covid rate . they leave we with an entrenched fraud and error problem . we could go on . the litany of catastrophic mismanagement be almost endless . the hon . member for Faversham and Mid Kent ( Helen Whately ) say that she could make saving . the Conservatives have 14 year — where be they ? instead , we get lot of " dog eat my homework " excuse . they should be hang their head in shame . as hon . friend have point out , it be tell that , behind the shadow Minister , the Opposition Benches be empty . they know how badly they let the country down . it be not just about the £ 8 . 6 billion ; the Conservatives ’ failure shine a spotlight on two deep failure that be the root cause of today ' s motion : a failure to grow the economy , and a failure to get people into work and to help those with health condition move on in the labour market . let I turn to growth first . we have hear a lot today about the economy , but it be worth pause to remember how bad thing be under the Conservatives . from 2019 , on their watch , the economy grow slow than any other G7 economy , bar one . in the last decade of their rule , GDP rise in real term by only 6 % . if it have grow at the same rate as comparable country , on average we would each be more than £ 8 , 000 well off . I welcome the fact that after year of this country be hold back by previous incompetent government , this Government be finally take the decision to realise our country ' s potential . that be what we hear today : £ 78 billion be release through support the Ox - Cam arc ; £ 160 billion through the Chancellor ' s excellent announcement over the weekend to allow investment of pension surplus ; £ 7 . 9 billion of infrastructure to give we nine new reservoir . the Conservatives have 14 year in government — do you know how many reservoir they build , Madam Deputy Speaker ? zero . that be the difference . I be proud of our Chancellor , who have make the tough decision that have give we the foundation of stability and allow we to make these announcement today . it be because of the stability create by the Budget and her other decision that we now have inflation of 2 . 5 % , that interest rate have be cut twice , because the Bank have confidence in the Government ' s fiscal management , that investment be at a 19 - year high , and that wage be grow at their fast rate in three year — I could go on . it be only because of the tough decision that we have make that we be in that position . beyond the Conservatives ' failure on growth , the breach of the welfare cap also shine a spotlight on their terrible failure to get people into work and to combat poverty . the figure be extraordinarily stark ; I thank my hon . friend the Member for Loughborough ( Dr Sandher ) for share some of they . today , one in five adult be economically inactive because of the Conservatives ' legacy . we be the only G7 country where employment rate remain below the pre - covid level . I note that the hon . member for Faversham and Mid Kent , when ask , acknowledge the fact , but she could not tell we why that be . well , I have a clue for she . it be because of the incompetence and the failure of her party . what be more , we know that these problem be drive overwhelmingly by ill health , with 85 % of those who have drop out of the labour market have do so due to ill health . this disproportionately hit those over 50 , but , scandalously , also affect the young in our society . the number of neet — those not in employment , education or training — go up by a third in the last three year of the previous Government . it go deep than that . beneath the shocking rise in 16 to 24 - year - old who be out of work and inactive , a stunning 79 % be also low skilled , with skill level low than gcse . because of conservative failure , so many of our young people have be catch in a downward spiral of low skill , poor opportunity , low self - esteem and poor mental health . this failure by the Conservatives be a moral disgrace , but it be also a massive economic problem . if not address , the sickness bill they bequeath the country could exceed £ 100 billion by the end of this Parliament . I would like to say that this be the first time they conservative have do something like this , but that would not be true . those of we old enough to remember will know that in 1997 , the outgoing Conservative Government bequeath more than 5 . 1 million inactive people to the incoming Labour Government . it be just what conservative government do . my hon . friend the Minister also mention the fact that many of the technical change the previous Government make to universal credit and other benefit actually drag people far away from the labour market , put up barrier and make it hard to get work . this be an absolute scandal , especially because we know that DWP staff — the people who work on this — want to make a difference . I work for the new deal taskforce 26 year ago , work on the previous Labour Government ' s strong effort to get people back into work . I know that DWP staff want to make a difference , but , because of the previous Government ' s terrible policy design and incompetence , they be often prevent from do so . this be a massive human tragedy . we know from survey work that at least half of the people who be inactive — 4 . 5 million people — say that they want to work if they can have the right support . we also know that work be the good tonic for many of the issue face by those who be inactive . we know from a University of Cambridge study , for instance , that just eight hour a week of pay work can reduce mental health issue in a large portion of the population by up to 30 % . what be more , the conservative party do far too little to tackle the underlie dynamic of low work and no work face by so many people in poverty . we know that the average family in poverty go through up to seven separate spell in poverty . all too often , it be like " Hotel California " : they can check out , but they can never leave . rather than try to deal with that problem , all we get from the conservative party be stick plaster and political slogan . I be incredibly proud to sit on the Labour Benches and support a government who will take a different approach and be absolutely determined to make an actual difference and tackle the root cause . we hear from the Minister the action that will be take to give our young people a choice , through the youth guarantee , between earn and learning — a real , proper stable start in life . we hear about the change we will make to the DWP to actually get it work . we hear about the change that will actually tackle the barrier to work — real , practical step rather than the slogan of the conservative party . we hear about the work on fraud and error , so that our public money be spend on help people to get back to work , rather than leak out of the system . we hear about the effort that will be make to get people not just into job , but into good job . it be worth pause on that point for a second . the labour market have change a lot in the past 30 year . it be no long a give that all job provide a ladder to good , fulfilling , family - support work . for too long , the conservative party , when it be in government , ignore that . it be such good news that through the good work lay out by the Minister on the industrial strategy , and through bring the career service together with Jobcentre plus so that we have a system that focus not just on get people into work but on help they get on , we finally have a Government who be take the problem seriously . our ambition be no less than to give people proper power over their own life . as my hon . friend the Member for Loughborough point out , the Conservative Government so often just seek to demonise and sloganise . we be try to put power back into people ' s hand and give they the real power over their own life that only fulfil and decent work can offer . as I say , I start work in the new deal taskforce in the DWP ' s predecessor Department . I be lucky enough , later on , to work on similar issue in the Prime Minister ' s strategy unit . what characterise the Administration then be a real passion to change life and a real passion to make thing well . that have be so lacking for the past 14 year , and it be so refreshing to hear that it be back . I be absolutely proud to stand here and support the motion . I be pleased we be have this debate , although I be sorry that it be relatively short . my concern about the proposal before we be that it recognise an overspend on the welfare cap — I support the idea that we should be allow to overshoot the cap — but hardwire decision on welfare spending for the next five year . it therefore restrict any future change to any element of welfare spending . the cap do not include pension and work - relate benefit . what it do include , in particular , be disability living allowance , housing benefit and personal independence payment . those benefit relate to the area in which , it seem to I , there be often the great level of poverty and people face the great problem in simply try to survive . the Government have already remove the winter fuel allowance , which be include in the estimate for the next five year , and be maintain the two - child benefit cap , which restrict the amount of money pay on benefit to family . I understand all the point the hon . member for Loughborough ( Dr Sandher ) make and the passion with which he make they , but the reality of not remove this ridiculous cap , put in place by the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) when he be Secretary of State for Work and Pensions , be that we have a lot of child live in desperate poverty . any Member who go to a food bank — we all have food bank in our constituency — and talk to the parent pick up food will find a wholly disproportionate number of , usually , mother of child in very large family who can not make end meet because their benefit apply only to the first two child . we need to get rid of the two - child benefit cap , but what we be be invite to support today will ensure that we keep it , while maintain the removal of the winter fuel payment and box we in when it come to what we can do to improve both the take - up and the availability of disability benefit as a whole . I must therefore caution the Minister and question her optimism . I recognise the need to overshoot the cap today because I understand why it have come about , but we need to look at the level of poverty in our society . I also understand all the point that have be make about the role of the Department for Work and Pensions in relation to people seek work . in 1986 , I be a member of the Bill Committee that take a sledgehammer to the then Department of Health and Social Security ' s method of support people who be out of work and help they into work . we have suffer ever since as a result , and I be pleased that the DWP be reform its way of do thing and will help people into work by provide more advice and support . the reality be , however , that many people in this country suffer because of the mental health crisis that we be in , have suffer industrial injury or be live in great poverty , and they need support . surely we should be measure the level of poverty , the increase level of child poverty and the educational underachievement of child live in poverty , rather than say that the most important thing to do be limit the level of welfare spending . there be a reason for that . I meet many people , in my constituency and in other place , who be receive DWP benefit . some be in work , some be unemployed and some have sickness problem and can not work . they be not shirker . they be not skiver . they be people who need help within our society . for too long we have have a culture of blame anyone who seek help within the law through our benefit system . I hope that we will hear a reply from the Government in which they accept the need for a re - examination of the level of poverty in society and demonstrate a preparedness to change the welfare cap in the future to accommodate any increase need that result from it . the thinking behind the cap be not about eliminate poverty from our society ; it be all about limit the level of welfare payment and the benefit that people gain from they . in an intervention in the early debate , I point out to the Chief Secretary to the Treasury that huge infrastructure project have go massively over budget and have be finance . I support the Elizabeth line — it be a wonderful thing — but it be way over budget , like plenty of other project . there seem to be one approach to investment in major infrastructure project that run way over budget , and another when it come to a welfare budget : anything that might go over will be prevent from go over by the Treasury . we can not predict who will be injure next year , what illness will come or what need will arise . surely the principle of the welfare state must be that we help and support people when they need that help and support — and yes , help they to be available for work and get back into work , and say to employer , " you need more flexible work arrangement so that people can work part time . " we must look at the level of unemployment among people with disability who simply can not get work because the employment law be not strong enough to require employer to provide work for people who , despite have disability , be well able to work . I think we should be more cautious , rather than adopt a gung - ho approach and say , " we be crack down on welfare . " I want to crack down on poverty , I want to crack down on unemployment , and I want to crack down on those who prevent people from achieve the good that they can in their life and in our society . I hope that the Government will consider completely scrap this debate in future year , because it have become farcical . the right hon . member for Islington North ( Jeremy Corbyn ) will remember that the welfare cap be introduce because of the dutch auction that be go on in this Chamber about who could be more brutal on the poor . the welfare cap be part of that period of debate , in which anyone claim benefit be allegedly a welfare benefit scrounger who be not willing to work for a living . that be the atmosphere that be engender in this Chamber . at that stage , to be frank , it be deeply worrying . in many way , humanity almost leave the Chamber . the farcical nature of the debate be that , have introduce the cap , Minister after Minister would have to come back each year and report that the cap have be breach , because more expenditure have be force on the Government as a result of the increase level of poverty . I suppose that it at least give member the opportunity to have some discretion over issue of poverty . may I suggest to those on the Labour Front Bench that they should remove the cap , because it have become a farcical exercise ? if we be to have a debate on poverty , there should be an annual report by the Labour Government on the poverty strategy that they be now develop . I believe that the commission establish by the Labour party be now work , and it would be so much well if we have a report and do not have the farcical pantomime that we have today . I thank the right hon . gentleman for allow I to intervene briefly to say that the child poverty taskforce ' s work be ongoing , and that it regularly engage with parliamentarian and other to update they . I know that many parliamentarian have be pleased to involve themselves in that work , give the importance of tackle child poverty . that be a really helpful response , but it do not respond to the fact that if we be to have a focus on poverty , rather than a debate on the welfare cap , which be breach on virtually an annual basis , it might be well to have a debate on the Government ' s strategy to tackle poverty overall . then we could have a proper discussion , and even a debate with a motion that could be amend where we want to see improvement . that be what I want to get on to now . I hope that people have see today ' s Joseph Rowntree Foundation report on overall poverty , which reflect what most of we know and experience in our constituency . it be shatteringly depressing , to be frank , because it do not show any improvement over the last few decade . the hon . member for Faversham and Mid Kent ( Helen Whately ) mention that the Tory Government introduce this measure when they come into power . it be during the period of austerity , and it be worth reflect on what that mean . the London School of Economics ' report and other independent report say that 140 , 000 people lose their life as a result of austerity ; other have estimate that the figure could be up to 300 , 000 . in part , that be because of the grind poverty that be impose on people , as reflect in all our constituency — we see it . I remember a time when there be no food bank in any of our constituency , because they be not necessary , but now they be , as a result of 14 year of austerity . if we be to have a proper debate on poverty , we need to highlight as individual constituency MPs where we think the Government should be go , so I will briefly do so on the basis of what we have see in the Joseph Rowntree Foundation report . I always cite the overall figure : we have 15 million people live in poverty , include 5 million child . I think the Joseph Rowntree Foundation report say that there be 4 million people live in deep poverty , and nearly 4 million in destitution . the statistic that always shock I be that 1 million child be in destitution . I never think we would use the word " destitution " again in our society ; I always think we would improve year by year and lift people out of poverty . I never think that child would live in poverty in the way that some of my generation do . there be group that clearly need to be on the agenda , and my hon . friend the Minister have mention some of they , thank goodness . I chair a group of unpaid carer , of whom there be 5 million in this country . if an unpaid carer be look after a disabled member of their family , it be almost inevitable that they will be live in poverty , unless we face up to the central demand of unpaid carer , which be to address their income . it be not just about how much they can earn , which the Government have look at recently ; it be about the carer ' s allowance be at such a level that people can not survive on it . look at the report with regard to family with child live in poverty , I can not at the moment see a fast way of get child out of poverty than scrap the two - child limit . I be hope that will be on the agenda as a priority when the Child Poverty Action Group report to Parliament . the Joseph Rowntree Foundation have identify that the poverty rate among disabled people be now 30 % . the Government be about to consult again on the work capability assessment reform because they lose in court to Ellen Clifford two week ago . I be pleased that the Government lose in court , to be frank . the basis of that decision be the lack of consultation on the previous Government ' s reform . I do not understand why our Government continue the appeal within the court , but they do . they have now lose and have be force to bring forward their consultation on the reform of the work capability assessment . I be hope that those reform will be do in co - production with disabled people — on the basis of the disability group ' principle , " nothing about we without we " . my fear be that an overhanging £ 3 billion - worth of saving be require from the DWP on this issue . if that result in cut to individual benefit , I think there will be uproar within our community and across this House . what be also interesting in the Joseph Rowntree Foundation report be that the poverty rate among people who be suffer long - term health condition be 50 % . the work that the Department of Health will now do in walk - in advice surgery , for example , and the focus on mental health , will be key . the household benefit cap overall be iniquitous . it force family into poverty , particularly in place such as London , because of the high rent that be hit people . accord to the Joseph Rowntree report , the poverty rate among renter in social housing be 44 % and in the private rent sector it be 35 % . the Government ' s refusal to accept the amendment to introduce rent control , which be table by a number of Labour Members , be extremely disappointing . the Government could at least devolve that power to the individual Mayors so that they can represent their community and introduce rent control where necessary . I believe that Sadiq Khan have express his support for that power to be devolve . with rent control , we could tackle the housing crisis that we face within our constituency . when we talk about poverty , we need to come forward with an agenda that will tackle it at pace , and I do not think that , in our discussion in the future , a welfare benefit cap in any form will assist in bring forward the reform that our constituent so desperately need . I agree with a number of the comment that have be make across the House today . I find myself nod along with the right hon . member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) there , and particularly with the right hon . member for Islington North ( Jeremy Corbyn ) . I just want to highlight a couple of thing before I get into the meat of my speech . we know that 38 % of universal credit claimant be in work , so I be glad that the Government be talk about how to make work pay and how to get more people into work . I be glad that the Government be invest in strategy that will get young people into work , and that will get people who have be long - term unemployed , or even short - term unemployed , back into work . I be glad that they be reform jobcentre so that they will be assist people in a way that they maybe have not be do in recent time . I be pleased about all of that , but we need to recognise that 38 % of those on universal credit be already work . it be just that their work be not pay enough or be not offer flexible enough hour if they have childcare or other caring commitment , and therefore they need that top - up . the welfare cap cover not only benefit and other element of social security provide to people who be out of work , but child benefit and a huge number of different thing . it be not entirely focused on people who be out of work , although I appreciate the Government ' s action on that . the right hon . member for Islington North talk about how the welfare cap be a bit backwards . everyone would be jump up and down , say , " that ' s backwards , " if we say , " we be go to put a cap on the number of people who can receive chemotherapy , and on the amount spend on it , because we be go to reduce the rate of smoking , obesity and other risk factor . we be go to have a healthy population , so it be okay for we to cap chemotherapy . we be go to put all this stuff in place to ensure that we reduce the spend on chemotherapy . " we should first spend the money and solve the problem , and then the spend will reduce . that be the whole point about the welfare cap — it be backwards . by have a welfare cap , the Government be say that they will reduce the spend on welfare by do all the thing that they be not yet do . they have not solve the problem . once they have solve the problem , and once the welfare system have improve in the way they be try to improve it , the number and the spend will reduce . I be , however , not entirely convinced that everything the Government be put in place will reduce the spend , because they be battle against a number of factor . even if they manage to get job to pay well , even if they far increase the minimum wage so it be close to a living wage , even if they ensure there be more opportunity , and even if the Chancellor ' s opportunity for growth actually exist and create many more job , there will still be a significant number of people whom the system be not set up to support . I have deal with people in my constituency surgery who be be support by third sector organisation , which be be hammer by the national insurance change and will not be able to provide the support they have be provide . I have deal with individual who be six month away from have the consistency in their life to be able to get up at 8 o ' clock every morning . my concern be that all government — I be not specifically blame the Labour Government — look for quick win . they look for the low - hang fruit . " where can we try to improve thing so that people who be pretty close to work anyway — who be not that far out , who have pretty stable life and who do not have an incredibly chaotic lifestyle — can access work ? " we will be let down those people who have chaotic lifestyle and who be so far away from be able to get into pay work — particularly full - time pay work — if we reduce the amount of disability benefit they can claim or reduce the amount of support they can receive , when they be a year away from have the stability to be able to access work . the social security safety net be not a safety net unless it provide support to people who absolutely can not work right now , and who will need 12 , 15 or 18 month , or two year , of intensive support to get to a position where they can achieve part - time work . I do not think that support be in place , and I do not think any Government have provide enough support to ensure that people be not leave on the scrapheap . we talk about label people , and we use to have that awful acronym " neet " — young people who be not in education , employment or training — and thank goodness we have move away from that . the hon . Lady be talk about programme , and the programme we have in Northern Ireland under the european social fund and the UK share prosperity fund be now be withdraw from those community . those organisation be crucial in help people who be far from employment get into gainful work . it take time to build up young people ' s confidence in society so that they see the value of work . I agree with the hon . Lady that the problem require a long - term plan , but the Government be look for short - term plan . it be absolutely about long - term planning . that be why we be make the case that we can not have a welfare cap and that thing be be do backwards . we should put in place all the support that the Government be promise , and more , to get people to the position where they can get into work . the welfare cap be an unfortunate hurdle , particularly as it bake in some of the cut that have be make , such as the winter fuel payment . it seem that there will not be an increase in the level of paternity pay ; it would be nice to see an increase in paternity pay level and in the number of man take up paternity leave . on young people not in education , employment or training — a phrase that be use early , when somebody say NEET — it would be great if young people have more chance and choice . finally , on issue relate to specific geographical location — the Minister mention Blackpool — hon . member would not expect I , as the hon . member for Aberdeen North , to avoid talk about the importance for Aberdeen of have a just transition . I mention do thing backwards ; the Minister need to ensure we build up renewable energy job before we knock down the job in fossil fuel . I be concerned that the Government be fail to do that in the right order , and that we will have gap where people will become unemployed because of the UK Government ' s action . I thank the Secretary of State for all the work on these important issue . I be aware that we be close to the end of the debate , so I will raise just one issue . a small business owner in my constituency of Chipping Barnet in north London tell I about the way the jobcentre fail to support people into work when the previous Government be in charge . it be encouraging to see what be come forward in the White Paper , but the small business owner , whose name be Simon , tell I how he have advertise some job in his company . he and his team spend seven hour go through lot of issue with 80 applicant , all of whom be refer by the jobcentre but none of whom have any desire to take up the job . they be apply because they be be force to do so by the work coach in the jobcentre in those 10 - minute appointment . I be happy that the Government have set out proposal in the White Paper — there will be more to come soon in the Green Paper — to help people who want to work to find job that be right for they , and to help employer to get good match to improve productivity and growth in this country . I thank every member who contribute to the debate . my hon . friend the Member for Loughborough ( Dr Sandher ) , for Hendon ( David Pinto - Duschinsky ) and for Chipping Barnet ( Dan Tomlinson ) , the hon . member for St Albans ( Daisy Cooper ) and for Aberdeen North ( Kirsty Blackman ) , and the right hon . member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) all make important contribution . all of we have point out that our social security system should be a safety net and a springboard , and should help people be and do all the thing they might wish . however , when we look at what we have inherit , it be a mess and it do not serve the purpose it be suppose to serve . that present a crisis for this country , because each and every one of we know that one day it could be we that get sick and need help , and that one day , hopefully , we will receive a state pension . we need the social security system to do its job . we be not in a good place , but we will move on . we be all impatient to get the change we need . we have already set out plan that be be discuss . we need big , fundamental reform , because the scale of the challenge be huge . there be an £ 8 . 6 billion breach this year ; the OBR see the breach come for over 18 month , but the previous Government do absolutely nothing to prevent it . that be not a number that you get because of one or two — one and a half hour have elapse since the commencement of proceeding on the motion , the Deputy Speaker put the Question ( Order , this day ) . question agree to . resolve , that , pursuant to the Charter for Budget Responsibility : Autumn 2022 update , which be approve by this House on 6 February 2023 under section 1 of the Budget Responsibility and National Audit Act 2011 , this House agree that the forecast breach of the welfare cap in 2024 – 25 due to high forecast expenditure on Universal Credit and disability benefit be justify and that no further debate will be require in relation to this specific breach . welfare Cap Resolved , that the level of the welfare cap , as specify in the Autumn Budget 2024 , which be lay before this House on 30 October 2024 , be approve . — ( Alison McGovern . ) business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Defence that the draft Armed Forces ( Court Martial ) ( amendment no . 2 ) Rules 2024 , which be lay before this House on 5 December 2024 , be approve . — ( Gerald Jones . ) question agree to . A432 Badminton Road Bridge Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Gerald Jones . ) I want to start by set the scene . the A432 m4 overbridge form part of a key route from my constituency into Bristol . it be erect in 1966 when the M4 be build and be a post - tensione concrete bridge . that is , it have high - strength steel tendon in duct within concrete to which tension be apply after the concrete set , before they be anchor in concrete and the duct fill in with grout . I will come back to the problem of such bridge later , but for now the key point to note be that it usually take around 16 , 000 vehicle a day over the motorway to the Wick Wick roundabout , where driver can continue on the a432 into Bristol or take the A4174 ring road . I say usually , because in June 2023 National Highways close the bridge , have give 48 hour ' notice to South Gloucestershire council , of which I be leader at the time . in December 2023 , after six month of investigation , National Highways announce that the bridge would have to be replace and could not reopen in the meantime , and that the work would take between two and three year , backdate to June . at one point , an end date of 2025 be mention , but that have now become the spring of 2026 . the closure be have a massive impact on local resident . the official diversion be long , so many of the 16 , 000 vehicle be end up on local country lane such as Henfield Road , Ram Hill and Down Road . even part of the official diversion route be only a c road . the council have put in extensive measure to improve traffic flow , but road be take load that they be never design to take . that be result in long queue , resident be unable to get out of their property safely or at all , and more pothole and the edge of road break up . heavy good vehicle be use road with weight limit and there be no enforcement to stop they . Henfield Road and Ram Hill be in a quiet lane scheme , where walker , cyclist , horse rider and driver be suppose to share the road respectfully , but that be not happen . the situation have also exacerbate flooding on Henfield Road , and high level of traffic be push water on to people ' s property . that have leave villager feel cut off , especially when flooding have take other route out of action . far , when the bridge be demolish , which we be tell be due to happen in March , pedestrian and cyclist will also be force to divert . above all , people question the length of time that it be take to replace the bridge . one write : " for the past 16 month , we have have just one route to exit Yate to reach the city centre , which have be plague by continuous temporary traffic light — often two set on Bristol Road . why be it take so long ? " another say : " when the bridge be eventually replace , it ' s likely to be the good part of 3 year to fix the issue . this be an utter embarrassment and quite frankly an absolute disgrace . the inconvenience this be cause to business , commuter and homeowner to name but a few be immeasurable . those responsible for this debacle should hang their head in shame . " the closure have leave the usually busy stretch of Badminton Road between Coalpit Heath and the bridge practically deserted , which have have a huge impact on local business . Kevin at the Bigger Eater burger van have be trade in that lay - by for 30 year . he provide a great service to local people during the pandemic , but the loss of pass trade because of the closure could be the final straw . there be also a kebab van in the lay - by in the evening . Viaduct Caf é have lose 60 % of its turnover since the bridge close , result in its lose half of its staff . the premise where it be locate have lose two business tenant . PM auto , which service car and have an agreement to take vehicle for their mot to a garage in Downend on the other side of the closure , have to take a round - about route that add significantly to the time take and cut into their taking . the Golden Heart pub have lose the pass trade of people decide to stop for a meal on their way home from work . Heritage Sheds and Fencing have complain that potential customer be not sure whether it be still open ; again , it be lose trade . the impact on the local economy do not seem to be fully recognise . this be not something that business can reasonably insure against , yet when I write to the Minister I be tell simply that there be no right to pass trade . in the same way that viable business need help to see they through covid , these business need support to ensure that they survive this closure . although the bridge be the responsibility of National Highways , it have fall to South Gloucestershire council to deal with the impact that I have describe on the local road network . I wish to put on record my thank to the many officer involve for their effort in respond to such an unexpected event . after initial monitoring , they put in place temporary measure , include traffic light , road closure and temporary signage , and when it be confirm that the road would remain closed for two to three year , they review the exist measure and implement more . although some be fund by National Highways , other be deem to be an " exist problem " — overlook the fact that the closure be exacerbate those exist problem — or too far away to be relate to the bridge , despite the fact that close such a major route have ripple effect across the local road network . unfortunately , the measure that the council put in place be not enough , for example , to stop the hgv use unsuitable road , because any physical measure that stop lorry also stop bus , and the police do not have the resource to enforce the restriction . for a long - term issue such as this , it be vital that the police have the resource to manage it . I also highlight the impact on other council service : carer , waste lorry and so on all have to take long route the council have be deal with extensive communication from the public and liaise with National Highways , the police and bus operator , which have be a significant drain on resource in itself . one thing that I be determined to do when I become leader of South Gloucestershire council be improve communication with our resident . in the case of the bridge closure , that mean do video update in which we put resident ' question to National Highways officer . at the beginning , it feel that get information out of National Highways to share with the public would be a challenge , but I be pleased to say that it get on board with the update , so much so that I understand it be consider roll they out elsewhere in the country . not only have the video update continue with my successor , but National Highways have attend public - engagement session alongside councillor and council officer . although communication can not remove all the frustration and disruption , it be vital that people know what be go on and can get answer to their question . why be I bring what could appear to be a hyper - local issue to the House ? I believe that there be a significant wide risk . National Highways manage 169 post - tensione concrete bridge on the strategic road network in the south - west alone , and 1 , 195 nationwide . in addition , there be an estimate 675 that be the responsibility of 105 local highway authority . of those 675 , research by the RAC Foundation in 2021 report that a whopping 293 require intrusive inspection that could cost £ 100 , 000 . " CS 465 Management of post - tensione concrete bridge " , a document I be sure we be all familiar with , say in its introduction that " tendon can be vulnerable to corrosion and severe deterioration where internal grouting of tendon duct be incomplete and moist air , water and contaminant can enter the ducting system . " it go on to say that " construction practice and a lack of maintenance " be the key factor affect deterioration . in the case of the A432 bridge , worker discover when they drill through to the tendon that the grouting be missing . CS 465 also explain that the problem with post - tensioned concrete bridge be that " safety critical defect in post - tensioned concrete be typically hide , very difficult to detect and may result in a brittle mode of failure . " unfortunately , visual inspection alone will not give warning of imminent collapse , and intrusive investigation can be expensive and potentially damaging . if a problem be identify , these bridge have to be remove very carefully , as the tendon be under tension — if we think about what happen when we release a taut elastic band , we can see why that would be dangerous . with many bridge have be build during the height of motorway building in the ' 60 and ' 70 , it be entirely possible that this sort of major disruption be come to many other community across the country . I come now to my ask of the Minister . give the high level of disruption and the local dismay about the length of time the work be take , will the Minister work with National Highways to try to bring forward the reopening of the road ? turn to the wide issue , what reassurance can the public have that all the thousand of post - tension concrete bridge in the UK be safe ? what be the plan to ensure that that be the case , and have it be review in the 19 month since this bridge be discover to be fail ? how will lesson be learn from this experience to reduce the time need to replace other bridge that be identify as fail ? will the Minister review how resident and business be support and compensate when National highway inflict significant disruption on they for an extended period ? will he also look at how the local highway authority be help to manage its road network when impact by a National Highways closure , and at how the police be resource to help it to do that ? will he review how the assessment be make of which measure should fall within the cost ascribe to National Highways , whether an exist problem be be worsen by the closure , and how widely the impact be recognise , so that local highway authority be not leave with huge bill ? will the Minister consider the approach take to communication in this case , and work with National Highways so that initiative such as the video update be roll out to other incident , to ensure timely communication with the public ? I have previously speak in this House about the financial challenge face local authority in simply try to maintain basic infrastructure , even without additional problem such as this road closure . will the Minister commit to give South Gloucestershire council the money that it need to restore the damage road when the bridge have reopen ? I welcome the debate of my constituency neighbour , the hon . member for Thornbury and Yate ( Claire Young ) , although I would have appreciate some notification of the debate , give that the bridge also sit within my constituency and impact my resident every single day in exactly the same way as it do hers . I completely agree with the challenge that have be describe . delay in get home , to work or to a doctor ' s appointment be very real challenge . as the leader of the council at the time the big challenge with the bridge be discover , when National Highways think that it need to intervene to close the bridge because thing have get to that stage , the hon . Lady have deep insight into those challenge . I welcome the work that she and other , include Ian Boulton , who be co - leader of the council at the time , have do alongside council officer to mitigate the impact of the bridge closure . I work closely with they and get regular update , for which I be very grateful as a constituency MP . that close relationship between the council and MPs be what our constituent want . they want we to work together with council leader in South Gloucestershire , and I be fully committed to that . although there be delay and we wish the bridge could be open soon — I echo that desire — I understand that National Highways have bring about this work as quickly as it could . we seek to communicate that to resident — I know that I do as an MP — so that they know the hard and fast work be do . National Highways recognise the importance of this bridge as an artery across and between our community for people to get to work and see family member . my hon . friend the Member for North Somerset ( Sadik Al - Hassan ) , who be sit beside I , know the situation well , he have live just on the other side of the bridge for a long time . he can attest to the delay and the challenge that the situation be cause hard - work family and individual across our community . a lot of local people recognise not only the challenge , but the ambition be lead by the council , alongside National Highways , to ensure that the new bridge can serve our community in the way that it need to in the long term — that be positive . the consultation work do over a long while on way to bring in active travel measure and offer more opportunity will serve our community well in the long term . I hear and echo the challenge that have be describe , which my resident and I share and understand , but I be optimistic about the long - term future of the bridge . I hope that it can be an example of the good type of bridge that we want to see elsewhere across our country . I will leave it there for now . I want to share those additional and important factor , as well as the view of local people on my side of the bridge . it be a pleasure to respond to the important point raise by the hon . member for Thornbury and Yate ( Claire Young ) and by my hon . friend the Member for Filton and Bradley Stoke ( Claire Hazelgrove ) . I thank the hon . member for Thornbury and Yate for secure the debate on such an important matter : the replacement of the A432 Badminton Road M4 overbridge . safety on our road be of the upmost importance , which be why the Government have announce that we intend to publish a new road safety strategy , the first in over a decade . work be already underway on that . the maintenance and renewal of vital structure on our road be also of the utmost importance and contribute to the safety of everyone who use the strategic road network . I note from the hon . member ' s effort to secure a debate on this subject that she be indeed a strong advocate for her constituent , business and road user — as be my hon . friend the Member for Filton and Bradley Stoke — and she have be campaign extensively to see improvement and to see how quickly this vital structure over the M4 can be replace with minimal impact on local people and business , and to protect the safety of everyone who use it . our strategic road network be the backbone of our country ' s economy . with 4 , 500 mile of motorway and major a - road , it connect people , build community , create opportunity and help the country to thrive . although it make up only 2 . 4 % of England ' s overall road network , it be the most heavily used and carry a third of all traffic and two third of all freight . investment in our strategic road network be make through the road investment strategy process , which be focus on create a road network that be safe , accessible and reliable for all road user , and which address its impact on those who use it and live near it . we be commit to put road transport at the heart of our mission - drive Government , transform infrastructure so that it work for the whole country , unlock growth , promote social mobility and tackle regional inequality . the hon . member for Thornbury and Yate may be aware that locally manage road make up 98 % of the road network , and that almost every journey start and end on a local road . we understand how critical it be to keep the local road network function as this promote growth locally and nationally and have a daily impact on the life of million of people . where these local road interact with the strategic road network , we aim to ensure that that be seamless and there be minimal impact on local people and business , while recognise safety need . the A432 M4 overbridge have be close since July 2023 , follow a detailed structural survey conduct by National Highways . the survey identify accelerate deterioration and crack on the underside of the bridge . as the hon . Member will understand , the safety of all road user be paramount , and a decision be make to close the bridge to traffic while maintain access for cyclist and pedestrian . I understand the concern that the hon . Member may have due to the length of the closure , but I want to highlight that this be a complex scheme that have involve numerous specialist , include utility provider , in preparation for the demolition to begin . the demolition be plan for March this year , with a new bridge plan to open for motorist early next year . the hon . Member call for the work to be expedite and I can assure she that National Highways have already work hard to accelerate many of the activity that support the replacement , to ensure that the bridge be available for the community as soon as possible . indeed , I have be talk to National Highways and understand that normally a project of this scale would take about five year , whereas the period for this project be three year . my Department will continue to engage readily with National Highways as the project progress . I be sure that the hon . Member will understand that National Highways have no intention of inconvenience road user , but it accept that , due to the nature of this type of work , and especially when road closure be necessary , some level of disruption be unavoidable . I understand the concern that there will be a period when no crossing of any kind be possible over the m4 on Badminton Road . as I mention , the hon . Member be a strong champion for local business in her constituency and have call for compensation due to the impact of traffic diversion . National Highways provide compensation as require by legislation across its project and scheme . the compensation arrangement generally cover permanent adverse impact , and the generally hold principle be that the public purse do not compensate business for loss of earning due to temporary road work . National Highways have work with South Gloucestershire council on funding and implement the traffic management it require on its network . mitigation provide include significant volume of static signing , variable electronic message sign and temporary traffic signal . the diversion route use during the A432 closure have be agree with the council and be the optimum route available . the council will have consider the impact of the reassigned traffic , its implication and the limited alternative available on its network . none the less , I understand the hon . member ' s view on the impact that increase traffic may have on local road that be not design for heavy traffic volume . however , the strategic and local road network use each other when diversion opportunity be for mutual benefit . I assure the hon . member that National Highways will continue to work with South Gloucestershire council to ensure that work be complete efficiently and to mitigate , as much as be practically possible , the disruption cause by the closure of the bridge . that include work with South Gloucestershire council to refine the traffic management arrangement on local road . I want to take this opportunity to affirm that National Highways have a robust inspection regime , ensure the delivery of a safe and reliable motorway and trunk road network in England . it have a programme of structural inspection , investigation and assessment to ensure that potentially vulnerable structure be identify , that safeguard measure be adopt and that maintenance work be program and prioritise . National Highways inspect all its bridge and other structure in line with the publish guidance in the design manual for road and bridge . that include a general visual inspection every two year and a more detailed principal inspection every six year , which identify and record defect in reinforce concrete , steelwork and other construction material . where necessary , further investigation , which may include material test , be undertake to establish the extent , severity and specific cause of the defect . if maintenance work be require , they be prioritise and the necessary repair be carry out to ensure that the structure remain safe and fit for purpose . National Highways apply any lesson learn on challenging project across the organisation as standard practice . however , it be worth mention that inspection be base on standard set out in the design manual for road and bridge . protect the safety of all road user will always be a priority of this Government . road safety be a shared responsibility , and it be important that we all recognise the part we can play as it can not be achieve in isolation . disruption will occur when action must be take to address safety issue on the network , but we also acknowledge that maintenance of our road ultimately benefit the whole community . I thank the hon . member for Thornbury and Yate once again not only for secure the debate , but for the important point she have raise and for her campaign on behalf of her constituent . I also thank my hon . friend the Member for Filton and Bradley Stoke for her contribution . I reassure the hon . member for Thornbury and Yate that I take this matter seriously and will aim to continue the conversation to see what we can achieve to provide a positive outcome for road user in the short and long term . question put and agree to . House adjourn .