Oral Answers to Questions Scotland the Secretary of State be ask — Food Supply Chains what discussion he have have with Cabinet colleague on food supply chain in Scotland . this Government want to ensure that farmer and food producer get a fair price for their product by tackle unfairness that exist in food supply chain . we be currently pursue contractual reform in the dairy and pork sector and we have a new review of the egg sector . this will ensure resilience and fair supply chain across the country . my constituent in Edinburgh West , like so many other across the country , be find it increasingly difficult to source affordable nutritious food . the situation have be make bad by flood in Scotland and by international pressure such as the war in Ukraine , energy price and Brexit . there be enterprise such as Lauriston Farm in my community that can provide good local food . what be the Government do to support project such as those and to offset the impact on our food producer of the recent flooding ? I recognise the point that the hon . Lady make about the pressure on the food supply chain . the UK Government be closely monitor the impact on the agricultural sector of the flooding cause by storm and we be work with the Environment Agency to resolve that . the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs can provide financial assistance to the farming sector to cover uninsurable loss incur as a result of exceptional flooding by activate the farming recovery fund . I would encourage the hon . Lady to contact the Under - Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , my hon . friend the Member for Keighley ( Robbie Moore ) , the excellent new water Minister at DEFRA , for more information . I now come to the Shadow Minister and welcome he to his position . thank you , Mr Speaker . it be a pleasure to be here , although I have to say that there be not particularly stiff competition for the role from Scotland . inflation might be slowly come down , but food inflation in Scotland still stand at more than 10 % , force family to choose between be able to eat or heat their home , or , give the increase level of destitution , neither . thousand of people in Scotland be turn to food bank not as a one - off last resort but as a means of get by week after week . it be clear that both our government should be work together much well to tackle this , so what specific step will the Minister take to work with the Scottish Government and the food industry to ensure that food price do not continue to rise at unaffordable rate ? do he really believe that the autumn statement will give family any confidence that the Government understand how difficult it be for people in Scotland right now ? I welcome the hon . member to his new position . I recognise the point he make about stiff competition , but nonetheless I very much welcome he . this Government be absolutely committed to tackle the rise price that household be face , which be why the Prime Minister have an absolute focus on reduce the level of inflation , but the hon . member be right to say that both government should be work together to alleviate pressure on household budget . this Government have demonstrate that through the huge support that have be put in place to support household with energy price , and through other measure to ensure that financial help be in place to support hard - press household . Post Office Branch Closures what discussion he have have with Cabinet colleague on the potential impact of post office branch closure on the delivery of Government service in Scotland . what discussion he have have with Cabinet colleague on the potential impact of post office branch closure on the delivery of Government service in Scotland . the United Kingdom Government continue to provide significant support to the national post office network , add up to more than £ 2 . 4 billion over the last 10 year . this funding enable 98 % of individual in rural area to live within three mile of their near post office in 2022 , with the overall network as large today as it have be for five year . our rural branch of the post office be at the very core , the very heart , of our rural community . at present , his Majesty ' s government provide certain service to the public via the post office network . do the Minister agree that it would be a good notion to encourage the Scottish Government to go down the same route and provide as many service as possible in that way , thus ensure the future of those branch ? I agree with the hon . member . I recognise the vital importance of post office for constituent in rural community such as his own and also in my own constituency in the Scottish Borders . it be of course for the Scottish Government to assess how to make their service available to people across Scotland , consider accessibility as well as value for money for the taxpayer . however , I would be happy to facilitate a meeting with my colleague in the Department for Business and Trade to see what further encouragement we could give the Scottish Government to use the post office network for the delivery of their service . Scotland have see the closure of 40 post office in the past two year , yet as the hon . member for Caithness , Sutherland and Easter Ross ( Jamie Stone ) point out , the community that still have post office be lose access to Government service , particularly in rural area . driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency service be due to cease be available at post office from the end of next March . what conversation have the Minister have with the Department for Business and Trade about keep DVLA service available from post office ? I should start by correct the hon . gentleman in that the post office network be not in decline . More post office have be open than close over the past year . we do see fluctuation in different part of the country , with many postmaster run a franchise business in their own right . many face the same challenge as other high street business . the DVLA and the Post Office extend their contract until 31 March 2024 . the post office network operate commercially at arm ' s length from the Government and be responsible for take decision on commercial matter such as the DVLA contract . devolution in Scotland what assessment he have make of the state of devolution in Scotland . what assessment he have make of the state of devolution in Scotland . with devolved power , the Scottish Government can tailor policy in area such as health , education and justice , as well as in tax and welfare through additional power in the Scotland Act 2016 . the UK Government be work with local government and local partner to deliver on their need and wish . that be real devolution in action . climate change talk at COP28 begin tomorrow , and one of the most important issue to be agree be the climate loss and damage fund . the Secretary of State will know that Scotland have lead the way on that , become the first country in the global north to pledge financial support to address loss and damage , but he and his conservative colleague be intent on limit the Scottish Government ' s international engagement . can he tell I why he want to silence Scotland ' s voice and prevent we from provide that global leadership ? it be very straightforward . we understand that there will be environmental engagement overseas by the Scottish Government , and that be a devolved matter . what we have try get a grip on be the Scottish Government travel overseas , meet Ministers , discuss reserved area such as constitutional affair and foreign affair , and stray away from the portfolio of matter that be devolve to they . that be our position . it be obvious that in order to cement a sense of economic resilience Scotland require a population growth strategy , but the devolution settlement , unfit as it be , will not come anywhere near that , and the Government continue to set their face against it . can the Secretary of State explain why ? if the Scottish Government want more people to settle in Scotland — and immigration be at a record high — they need to build more housing , have low taxis and well public service , and make Scotland more attractive to people . do my right hon . friend share my disappointment that the SNP - Green Scottish Government continue to use the devolution settlement as a platform to pursue constitutional grievance ? in reality , would not achieve the good outcome for the people of Scotland and our constituent mean the two government work together on a project , for example the A75 ? if the government work together , that will actually be deliver . I absolutely agree with my right hon . friend . the A75 , along with the A77 , come up as a vital route in the Union connectivity review by Lord Hendy of Richmond Hill — Sir Peter Hendy as he be at the time . we be finally work with the Scottish Government , and the UK Government be fund a feasibility study for the upgrade of the A75 . I be delighted that progress be be make . be it not the case that the Scottish Government have consistently stray outside the limit of the devolution settlement , so it be very difficult to take the SNP seriously as a defender of devolution when it have so little respect for the current settlement ? my hon . friend be right . everyone forget that the Scottish Government get up every day and go to work to destroy devolution and the United Kingdom . the defender of devolution and the strengthener of the United Kingdom be this Government . I call the shadow Secretary of State . let I take this opportunity to congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Rutherglen and Hamilton West ( Michael Shanks ) not only on his vast — and fast — promotion to the shadow Front Bench but on the 20 . 4 % swing from the SNP that bring he the by - election victory . the announcement of the closure of the refinery at Grangemouth be a hammer blow . too many community be still live with the devastation of be leave behind after coalmine closure in the 1980 . that must not be allow to happen again . Grangemouth ' s owner be buy football club and invest in plant elsewhere , while the worker lose out . the Prime Minister have decide that a culture war on the environment trump get the UK into the global green energy race by back Labour ' s green energy superpower plan . the devolution settlement demand that both government work together , but they certainly do not . what discussion be the Secretary of State have with the Scottish Government to protect job at Grangemouth ? what impact will the closure have on the Acorn carbon capture and storage project ? first of all , it be a very worrying time for those whose job be at risk at the Grangemouth refinery . this morning , the Under - Secretary of State for Scotland , my hon . friend the Member for Berwickshire , Roxburgh and Selkirk ( John Lamont ) , and a Minister from the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero meet Neil Gray from the Scottish Government , and yesterday my hon . friend have a meeting with the local authority . work be go on . it be ironic that the Scottish Government want to shut down oil and gas , because when that happen , people suddenly realise the need to manage a transition and take we gradually to net zero while protect people ' s livelihood . on Acorn and the scottish cluster , I have speak to the chief executive of Storegga , which be pull the project together . he tell I that the refinery closing have little impact on its project , because Grangemouth be supply the blue hydrogen to the refinery and other , and the emission from that be be put into the North sea . it be the 25th anniversary of the Scottish Parliament next year — one of the Labour party ' s proud achievement . however , recently it have be rive by failure and scandal , from one in seven on NHS waiting list to ferry , ipad and camper van . much have be make about the dual role of the Government - appoint Lord Advocate , who sit in the Scottish Cabinet while preside over prosecution in Scotland . what discussion have the Secretary of State have with the Scottish Government about Anas Sarwar ' s idea to split the dual role of Scotland ' s top law officer , to maintain the separation of power between the Government and the judiciary ? as the hon . Gentleman will know , the Director of Public Prosecutions in England be appoint by a panel , which remove the risk of perceive interference by Government . many learn friend have express their concern to I about the structure in Scotland and the closeness between the judiciary and the Government , and I find their concern understandable . it be vital that the public perception be that the prosecution service be very independent from Government . I call the Chair of the Scottish Affairs Committee . I be sure the Secretary of State will agree that his mission to constrain and bypass the Scottish Parliament have be an absolute disaster for devolution . relationship across the UK have never be as such a low level . will he acknowledge that his version of aggressive Unionism have utterly fail ? as he be leave his office , will he pledge to abandon it entirely ? I be not entirely sure what I have do that have be a failure , to be honest . this Government protect devolution and the settlement . if he be refer to the section 35 order that I use , that be in the Scotland Act 1998 and be vote for at the time by SNP MPs . it be there to protect devolution when a devolve Administration legislate on Great Britain or UK matter . Employment Law : devolution if he will have discussion with Cabinet colleague on the potential merit of devolve employment law to the Scottish Government . the UK Government have no intention of devolve legislative competence for employment right to the Scottish Parliament . employer and employee benefit hugely from a single , simple system where employment right be the same across Great Britain , whether in Derby or Dundee . we do not see any benefit from change that arrangement . devolution of employment law be support by the Scottish Trades Union Congress , the Trades Union Congress , worker ' right group , a majority in the Scottish Parliament and the public . it would benefit worker by have their government compete to give they well right and prevent a race to the bottom . what be not to like ? why will the Secretary of State ' s Government not consider it ? I refer the hon . gentleman to my original answer . we believe it be right to have a simple system that work across the United Kingdom , whether one be in Derby or Dundee . do the Secretary of State agree that to have different employment law either side of the border of the two nation would be a mistake , because it would increase the regulatory burden on company and deprive british company of our excellent tribunal system ? I completely agree with my right hon . and learn Friend , who absolutely make the right argument . scottish Work Visa Scheme if he will make an assessment with Cabinet colleague of the potential merit of devolve the power to introduce a scottish work visa scheme to the Scottish Government . if he will make an assessment with Cabinet colleague of the potential merit of devolve the power to introduce a scottish work visa scheme to the Scottish Government . if he will make an assessment with Cabinet colleague of the potential merit of devolve the power to introduce a scottish work visa scheme to the Scottish Government . the United Kingdom Government have introduce a single , flexible immigration system that work in the interest of the whole United Kingdom . a separate visa system would create an economic migration border between Scotland and the rest of the UK , which would be harmful for employer and far less attractive for worker . last week , the CBI conference raise the serious issue of a lack of people to do vital job that we need fill , especially in hospitality and food production . both the Fraser of Allander Institute and the highlands MSP Kate Forbes have suggest localise worker visa solution to boost the economy . why be the Secretary of State not listen to those smart voice , and why be he not act in the good interest of the scottish economy ? because we have a specific scottish occupation list for shortage , which give we flexibility . the salary rate be set at £ 20 , 960 . we believe that the good way be for stakeholder body to make representation to the Home Office to add to the shortage occupation list . five year ago , the Migration Advisory Committee say that the current system be fail remote community . recently publish figure show that my Argyll and Bute constituency be suffer further depopulation , with the town of Rothesay on the Isle of Bute particularly badly affected . despite overwhelming evidence to the contrary , the Government still insist that the current system deliver for all part of the UK . will the Secretary of State explain how a one - size - fit - all policy , simultaneous catering for the vastly different need of densely populate urban area and Argyll and Bute , can deliver equally for both ? Argyll and Bute be a beautiful part of the United Kingdom , but what it lack be infrastructure , public service and affordable housing , because the Scottish Government have fail in all those area . what it also have , with the rest of Scotland , be the problem of be the highest - tax part of the United Kingdom . that be the problem the Scottish Government have to address . the UK Government say that post - brexit domestic employment would fill labour gap , but the executive director of ukhospitality Scotland have say that the gap leave by exclude EU worker have not be fill , leave huge number of specialist vacancy , such as for chef and manager . when will this government accept reality and stop destroy Scotland ' s economy in the name of a purist Brexit ideology ? I think the hon . Lady live in a parallel universe . we have the high net migration to the UK since record begin , far high than when we be in the EU . as I say , if we want to attract people to Scotland , we must stop make it the highest - tax part of the United Kingdom . the Secretary of State have correctly identify that there be some who want to use immigration policy to enforce a hard border between England and Scotland as part of their aim to break up the Union . do he agree , and in his assessment do he identify , that we need to ensure that immigration policy be not use as an alternative to offer the rewarding package that key worker deserve ? absolutely . we be one United Kingdom . we have no physical border . it be important that we treat immigration equally across the whole United Kingdom and give everyone equal opportunity . I call the SNP spokesperson . let I be clear : we be talk about the administration of work permit for people from overseas who wish to work in Scotland on a temporary basis . just about everyone think it would be well administer in Scotland , but the Secretary of State insist that it should be centralise by his Government in Westminster . his argument would be plausible if the UK demonstrate that it be manage the migration service well but , give the catastrophe that be the UK immigration system , when will he wake up and realise this would be well do in Scotland , by the people who live there ? I point the hon . gentleman to the seasonal agricultural worker scheme . that is 45 , 000 people , with the ability to flex it up to 55 , 000 . those people come to work in a flexible system across the United Kingdom , and it have prove to be a huge success . the Secretary of State be stand against everyone . he be stand against expert , against academic , against representative of industry and even against the people of Scotland , only 28 % of whom think immigration be too high . More than six in 10 think more immigration would benefit the country . when be he go to stop be the Secretary of State against Scotland and be the Secretary of State for Scotland ? it be good that the hon . Gentleman ' s line be write by Mike Russell . that be an old one , and not a very good one . the reality be that Scotland be the most tax part of the United Kingdom , which be not attractive for people to work there . we have the high ever net migration . if the Scottish Government focus more on good public service , good infrastructure and low taxation , hopefully those high net migration figure will see more people settle in Scotland . Carbon Capture , Utilisation and Storage what recent discussion he have have with the Scottish Government on develop carbon capture , utilisation and storage in Scotland . carbon capture , utilisation and storage be a vital component of our journey to net zero . the Acorn project represent a huge opportunity for the north - east of Scotland . as would be expect for any multi - billion pound project , due diligence must now be follow . under Westminster rule , Bathgate , Linwood , Methil and Irvine be all no more . Grangemouth now risk be add to that sorry list , and with it the hope of its develop carbon technology . the Minister be quick to attack a Scottish Government with limited power , but responsibility for the robbery and ruination of Scotland ' s energy sector , and the continued denial of substantial funding for carbon capture , rest squarely with the UK Government . what be his office do to protect energy sector job and livelihood in Scotland , and what be his Department ' s excuse for utterly fail the people of Scotland ? I have the pleasure of meet the Cabinet Secretary from the Scottish Government this morning , together with the leader of Falkirk Council , to discuss the situation at Grangemouth . the Scottish Government and the UK Government be work together , hand in hand , to protect as many job as possible . the scottish cluster be expect to include at least one project locate in Grangemouth , which be welcome news . Productive Forestry Planting whether his Department have have recent discussion with the Scottish Government on support productive forestry planting in Scotland . I very much welcome this question , which be timely in National Tree Week . reforestation be a crucial way for we all to reduce carbon emission and improve biodiversity across the country . although this policy be devolve , the UK Government continue to work with the devolved administration to deliver UK - wide change in tree planting and establishment . conifer , which be the main specie plant for productive forestry , account for just under half the area of UK woodland . do my hon . friend agree that there should now be a UK - wide target for 60 % of new planting to be productive forestry , allow Scotland to lead the way in deliver a secure supply of raw material to support british manufacturing and construction ? I thank my hon . friend for her excellent question . there be high ambition across the United Kingdom to increase forestry planting . I agree that we must secure a steady supply of the raw material need to support Britain ' s construction and manufacturing industry . last week — [ interruption . ] I do not normally get such a cheer . last week , the Government announce that there will be a new national park and a new national forest in England . do the Scottish Government , or the Minister , have any intention of do something similar for Scotland ? there be great ambition for an additional national park in Scotland , and my scottish conservative colleague be push very hard for that . if the hon . Gentleman need more information , he should please write to I . I will respond with the require detail . promote Scotland ' s Interests abroad what recent discussion he have have with Cabinet colleague on promote Scotland ' s interest abroad . the UK Government work tirelessly to promote scottish interest around the world through our extensive diplomatic network , forge business link , and generate trade and investment . our response to the Scottish Affairs Committee ' s recent inquiry on Scotland ' s international promotion highlight the extensive effort we undertake to achieve this . as one of the Prime Minister ' s trade envoy , it be always my pleasure to be champion british business overseas . from whisky to satellite , Scotland be home to some of the UK ' s most important export . will my right hon . friend update the House on what work the Scotland Office be do to support these important sector in the international market ? first , I thank my hon . friend for his service as a trade envoy , and tell he that last month I have the pleasure of travel to Vietnam to boost Scotland ' s trade interest and celebrate diplomatic link . Vietnam already offer huge opportunity for scottish business and in the light of the UK ' s recent joining of the comprehensive and progressive agreement for trans - Pacific partnership — that be easy for you to say , Mr Speaker — I be keen to highlight further trading opportunity for scottish business in the Indo - Pacific region . for the final question , I call Patrick Grady . will the Secretary of State clarify what he be say early and whether he think it be legitimate for Scottish Government Ministers to be able to travel overseas to promote the work of the Scottish Government ? I have always be very clear that Scottish Government Ministers can go overseas to promote area that be devolve , but the reserved area , such as the constitution and foreign affair , be a matter for the UK Government and those Ministers should not be use our embassy and consulate to promote their plan for separation , or their different view on the middle east or anything else . before we come to Prime Minister ' s question , let I remind member of an important courtesy that we should all observe : give notice to colleague if we be visit their constituency on official business . colleague in Lancashire ought to think about that when they be go to other ' constituency and let people know when they be do so — I believe that do not happen on this occasion . I have hear of a number of example in other area of this discourteous way of behave towards colleague , which be not acceptable . I would rather we do not have to deal with such matter by point of order , so please try to give notice before visit each other ' s constituency . I also say to everybody that temperate and moderate language be what I want in this Chamber . let we now move on to pmq . Prime Minister the Prime Minister be ask — Engagements if he will list his official engagement for Wednesday 29 November . this morning , I have meeting with ministerial colleague and other . in addition to my duty in this House , I shall have other such meeting later today . last year , Scotland export 19 trillion wh of electricity , worth £ 4 billion , to the UK grid , yet not only do scottish generator pay the high grid connection charge in Europe , but scot pay among the high standing charge while London ' s be by far the low . our heating and lighting be switch on a lot early and off a lot later than the south of England ' s . should scottish household be force to shiver in the dark this winter to subsidise the rich part of the UK ? as the hon . Gentleman will know , stand charge be a matter for Ofgem , the independent regulator . last week , it launch a consultation ask for view about standing charge . he will know that because of geographic factor , the UK Government already provide an annual cross - subsidy worth £ 60 to a typical household in Scotland , but on top of that we be provide considerable support to everyone across the UK with their energy bill this year . Abigail Mor Edan be four year old . release from Hamas captivity last weekend , Abigail be an orphan , after her parent be brutally execute in front of she during Hamas ' s rampage on 7 October . to secure the freedom of Abigail and some other hostage , Israel be take a huge risk , release convict terrorist , include would - be suicide bomber Israa Jaabis , imprison for detonate a gas cylinder in her car in 2015 . Hamas also seem to have break the ceasefire , by activate three explosive device . what step be my right hon . friend the Prime Minister take to continue his welcome , steadfast support for Israel in its fight against not only Hamas , but other Iran - back terror group ? I thank my hon . friend for raise such an important issue . my thought and the thought of the whole House will be with Abigail . as I have say before , we support Israel ' s right to defend itself , to go after Hamas and to free hostage , to deter further incursion and to strengthen its security for the long term . we welcome the extension to the agreement to pause fighting , increase humanitarian aid and release further hostage . negotiation be ongoing and highly sensitive , but this have be a welcome first positive step . we will continue to hold Iran to account for any further escalation from these group , as well as continue to work with partner to disrupt and deter Iran ' s destabilising activity in the middle east . I call the Leader of the Opposition . in an effort to hide from his failure , the Prime Minister spend this week argue about an ancient relic that only a tiny minority of the british public have any interest in — but that ' s enough about the Tory party . in 2019 , they all promise the country that they would control immigration , say " number will come down " and " the british people will be in control " . how be it go ? let I be crystal clear . the level of migration be far too high and I be determined to bring they back down to sustainable level . that be why we have ask the Migration Advisory Committee to review certain element of the system . we be review those finding and will bring forward next step . early this year , we announce the tough action ever take to reduce legal migration . the effect of that action be yet to be feel , but will impact 150 , 000 student dependant . forecast show that migration be likely to drop as a result . up until this moment , all we have hear from the right hon . and learn Gentleman on this topic be a secret backroom deal with the EU that would see an additional 100 , 000 migrant here every year . never mind the British Museum — it be the Prime Minister who have obviously lose his marble . the greek Prime Minister come to London to meet he : a fellow NATO member , an economic ally and one of our most important partner in tackle illegal immigration . instead of use that meeting to discuss those serious issue , the Prime Minister try to humiliate he and cancel at the last minute . why such small politic , Prime Minister ? of course we be always happy to discuss important topic of substance with our ally , like tackle illegal migration or strengthen our security , but when it be clear that the purpose of the meeting be not to discuss substantive issue for the future but to grandstand and relitigate issue of the past , it be not appropriate . furthermore , specific commitment and assurance on that topic be make to this country and then break . it may seem alien to the right hon . and learn Gentleman , but in my view , when people make commitment , they should keep they . I discuss the economy , security and immigration with the greek Prime Minister . I also tell he we would not change the law regard the marble — it be not that difficult . the reality be simple : the Prime Minister have no plan on boat crossing and migration be at a record high . his policy be that company can pay worker from abroad 20 % less than british worker and that have contribute to those record high immigration level , have it not ? the right hon . and learn Gentleman talk about the boat crossing but have fail to notice that illegal boat crossing be down by a third this year , thank to all the action we have take , which he oppose every single time they be raise . no one will be surprised that he be back an EU country over Britain . just last week , he be ask which song good sum up the Labour party . what do he come up with ? he show his true colour and choose " Ode to Joy " — literally the anthem of the European Union . he will back Brussels over Britain every single time . let I get this straight : the Prime Minister be now say that meet the Prime Minister of Greece be somehow support the EU , instead of discuss serious issue . he have just dig far into that hole that he have make for himself . rather than deal with the fact , he be prosecute his one - man war on reality , and that reality be stick . under this Government , a bricklayer from overseas can be pay £ 2 , 500 less than somebody who be already here , a plasterer £ 3 , 000 less , and an engineer £ 6 , 000 less . the list go on . it be absurd . labour would scrap his perverse wage - cut policy . why will he not do so ? as I have say , we have take significant measure and will bring forward more . indeed , as the Office for National Statistics itself say , more recent estimate indicate a slowing of immigration as a result of the thing that we be do . but I be surprised to hear the right hon . and learn Gentleman now take this new position . I have a quote here from a pushy young shadow Immigration Minister , who say to this House — I directly quote this person — that limit on skilled migrant be " a form of economic vandalism " . — [ Official Report , 7 March 2016 ; Vol . 607 , c . 19wh . ] who could possibly have take such a bizarre position only to u - turn ? it will come as no surprise to anybody that it be he . there be only one party that have lose control of the border , and its member be sit right there . this be a Government who be not just in turmoil , but in open revolt . the Immigration Minister think that the Prime Minister be fail because , apparently , nobody will listen to his secret plan . the former Home Secretary think that he be fail because of his " magical thinking " . the current Home Secretary think that he be fail . he even take time out of his busy schedule of insult people in the north - east to admit that he agree with Labour . the Prime Minister seem to be the only person on the Tory Benches without his own personal immigration plan . clearly , his own side do not have any faith in he . why should the public ? it be really a bit rich to hear about this from someone who describe all immigration law as " racist " , and who literally say that it be a mistake to control immigration . we have take step and we will take further step , which be why recent estimate show that immigration be slow . it be why , next year , the immigration health surcharge will increase by more than two third . it be why immigration fee be go up by up to 35 % . one of his own Front - Bench team say that have a target be not sensible . it be no surprise to have people like that , because , while we be take all these measure that he oppose , this be the person who stand on a platform and promise to defend free movement . on this Government ' s watch , migration have just treble , and the Prime Minister be give the House a lecture about target . he be lose in la - la land . there can be few experience more haunting for Conservative Members than hear this Prime Minister claim that he be go to sort out a problem . first , he say that he would get NHS waiting list down ; they go up . unabashe by that , he say that he would get control of immigration ; it have go up . follow that experience , he turn his hand to bring taxis down . and , would you believe it , the tax burden be now go to be high than ever . it be ironic that he have suddenly take such a keen interest in greek culture when he have clearly become the man with the reverse Midas touch : everything he touch turn to — perhaps the Home Secretary can help I out — rubbish . [ interruption . ] we might have to check the tape again , Mr Speaker . will the Prime Minister do the country a favour and warn we what he be plan next , so that we can prepare ourselves for the disaster that will inevitably follow ? More ! at the beginning of the year , we say — More ! order . at the beginning of the year , we say that we would halve inflation and this Government have deliver , ease the burden of the cost of live for family everywhere . we know about the right hon . and learn Gentleman ' s plan — all the way through that , what do he do ? he back inflationary pay rise and talk about welfare — no control for welfare — and about borrow £ 28 billion a year that would just make the situation bad . he mention tax : just this past week , we have deliver the big tax cut since the 1980s for million of people and business , and increase pension and benefit . and this week , we secure £ 30 billion of new investment for this country . so he can keep try to talk — order . can I just say to the shadow Foreign Secretary — [ interruption . ] order . just a little bit quieter , please . I want to hear . the Government have rightly respond to the shocking and unacceptable rise in antisemitism , and we see extra funding in the autumn statement . I note that 44 % of religiously aggravate offence last year be against the muslim community , yet in the autumn statement there be no funding to deal with Islamophobia . the Government ' s independent adviser on Islamophobia role have be leave vacant for over one year . as the Prime Minister know , we discuss these matter over a year ago , yet no action have take place . Prime Minister , enough be enough with regard to tackle anti - muslim hatred . will the Government now finally take action ? we will not tolerate anti - muslim hatred in any form , and expect it to be deal with wherever it occur . I actually recently meet Tell MAMA , a service that provide support to victim of anti - muslim hatred , which we have in fact support with over £ 6 million of funding since its inception . we be in regular dialogue with it . we have also double the funding for protective security measure through the protective security for mosque scheme , and we will continue to do everything we can to keep our muslim community safe . I call the SNP leader . in good news for kid in Aberdeen this morning , it be snow ; when they look out of the kitchen window , they would have be fill with delight . but many of their parent who look out of the kitchen window this morning would have be fill with dread — dread from know that they simply can not afford to pay their energy bill . in that context , do the Prime Minister regret offer no financial mechanism whatever for family this winter ? it be simply not right to say that there be not support for family this winter — there have be considerable support this year for energy bill . this winter , pensioner household , for example , will receive up to £ 300 alongside their winter fuel payment . they be some of the most vulnerable household , and it be right that they get that support at a difficult time . I appreciate that it be difficult for the Prime Minister to empathise when he quite clearly can not understand , but to be clear to he and , indeed , the whole House : this be not a matter of energy production . Scotland produce six time more gas than we consume and around two third of our electricity already come from renewable resource . this be a consequence of decade of fail energy policy here in Westminster . those of we on the Scottish National party Benches believe that Scotland ' s energy wealth and energy resource should benefit the people of Scotland . why doesn ' t he ? the entire energy grid infrastructure in this country be integrate , which bring benefit to people in every part of our United Kingdom . when it come to support people with energy bill , early this year we increase benefit to the high rate on record . it be why we provide cost of living payment worth £ 900 on top of regular support . it be right not to wait until the last moment to give people that support ; we give it to they early this year so that they would have the security they need go into winter — as I say , on top of the money for pensioner . when there be cold snap , we have cold weather payment that kick in and the warm home discount , which provide an extra £ 150 to the most vulnerable household . all that be the most considerable action take by any Government to help people with their energy bill . the £ 400 million redevelopment of Kettering General Hospital be the no . 1 investment priority for local resident . the first part be a £ 50 million new energy plant to power the expand and improved hospital . will my right hon . friend the Prime Minister please do all he can to ensure that the Department of Health get spade in the ground on time next spring , so that we can get the construction of our redevelop , much love local hospital fully under way ? I thank my hon . friend for continue to champion the new hospital in Kettering . we be absolutely committed to deliver the scheme for Kettering General Hospital . as my hon . friend will be aware , the new energy centre be vital to the delivery of the new hospital , and we expect that work to begin in the first quarter of next year . the new hospital programme be work closely with the trust to ensure that the plan be deliverable . three year ago , the Government make a commitment to 40 new hospital and significant upgrade to hospital in most need , but today many scheme be badly delay . the Royal Berkshire — stick at the development stage , with not a single pound transfer for construction . Harrogate District Hospital — still wait on £ 20 million for urgent upgrade after reinforce autoclave aerate concrete be discover . there be 25 more such scheme . will the Prime Minister explain why his Government be happy to let patient , doctor and nurse suffer for year in such unfit and unsafe condition ? we be deliver 40 hospital by 2030 . good progress be already be make , and that programme be be back by over £ 20 billion of investment . three scheme be already open , two be open this year , and 16 be in construction , or work have begin to prepare the site . it be absolutely right , though , that within that we prioritise raac hospital . that require a reprioritisation , but that be the appropriate thing to do to ensure safety . patient and staff be already benefit from some of the improvement that we have make , which come on top of the large capital programme for the NHS in its history , roll out community diagnostic centre , urgent treatment centre and surgical hub right across the country . as disturb as I be to learn that british politician be be debanke by the National Westminster Bank , the Prime Minister can imagine my horror to find that an entire town — Bakewell in the Derbyshire dale — be be debanke by the National Westminster Bank . in the whole of the Derbyshire dale and the Peak district , there be not a bank leave . do my right hon . friend share my concern , as we be the major shareholder , that the National Westminster Bank be ignore my vulnerable elderly constituent , and my businessman ? Bakewell be a big , thriving market town . my hon . friend be right that all customer , wherever they live , should have appropriate access to banking and cash service . that be why we have legislate to protect access to cash , and the Financial Conduct Authority have issue guidance that seek to ensure that branch closure decision treat customer fairly . I know that there have be an assessment of access to cash in her area , and the financial service sector will provide a new cash deposit service for her community . also , everyone can access the post office for regular banking service . yesterday , Cancer Research UK ' s manifesto " long , well life " set out a road map to save 20 , 000 life a year by 2040 . research be key to that , and it have identify a funding gap of over £ 1 billion . Cancer Research UK have tell I that , exclude research fund by industry , charity fund 62 % of cancer research compare with the Government ' s 38 % . be the Prime Minister ashamed of that , and what will he do to address the gap ? of course the Government must do more to continue prevent cancer death in our country . that be why we be focus on fight cancer on all front — prevention , diagnosis , treatment , research and funding . crucially , cancer be now be diagnose at an early stage more often , with survival rate improve across all type of cancer , include the most common cancer , and through our treatment record we be roll out community diagnostic centre everywhere to ensure that we can reach those people as quickly as possible . can I thank you , Mr Speaker , on behalf of the all - party parliamentary group on HIV and AIDS , for host today ' s reception to honour the incredible contribution that Sir Elton John have make to the fight against AIDS ? I very much welcome today ' s announcement of further funding for HIV and hepatitis B and c opt - out testing in hospital emergency department as a critical step in fight those disease . I ask the Prime Minister to join I , and I be sure the whole House , in praise Sir Elton and his AIDS foundation for pioneer this work . Sir Elton John have be a powerful voice for change in the UK and the world . through the brilliant work of his foundation he have raise awareness of HIV , reduce stigma and save life . I be very pleased that that will be celebrate tonight at the HIV and AIDS all - party parliamentary group event . ahead of World AIDS Day on Friday , I would also like to reaffirm this Government ' s commitment to end new transmission within England by 2030 . I know my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care will have more to say at tonight ' s event about the expansion of our recent pilot initiative on screen . Pearl Melody Black be 22 month old when a car roll off a private drive on to a highway and hit a wall , which fall and kill she while she be hold her daddy ' s hand . her parent , my constituent Gemma and Paul , South Wales Police and the Crown Prosecution Service be all frustrated that no charge could be bring in the case due to a loophole in the law . my ten - minute rule Bill , the Driving Offences ( Amendment ) Bill , seek to amend the Road Traffic Act 1988 , but it fall as it do not get parliamentary time . I know that colleague across the House have have similar issue , so I ask the Prime Minister to meet I and meet my constituent to assist in find a way forward . I be incredibly sorry to hear about Pearl . my thought and , I know , those of the whole House will be with Gemma and Paul . I will make sure that the hon . Gentleman get a meeting with the relevant Minister on the legislation as quickly as possible . we know the Labour party have an aversion to white van man , but do the Prime Minister share my concern that , accord to a report in the Daily Telegraph today , Labour - run Westminster Council be increase parking charge for small electric vehicle by up to 1 , 800 % , demonstrate that it do not support small business or tackle climate change ? my hon . friend be right to raise those concern . it seem that Labour in London be yet again penalise hard - work people . first we have the ultra low emission zone , and now it seem Labour be hike parking charge on white van driver and small business . I join she in urge the labour - run Westminster Council to rethink those damaging proposal . I quote : " Rishi think just let people die and that ' s okay " . that be reportedly the Prime Minister ' s view of covid during late 2020 , as record by the then chief scientific adviser in his diary . it come to light last week in the covid inquiry and I be shock that Downing Street do not categorically deny it . I ask the Prime Minister today how it be that people who be close to this issue , whom he work with day in , day out at the top of Government , get the impression that the Prime Minister be okay with people in our country die — order . I think he have get the question . as the hon . Lady know , there be an ongoing inquiry into covid . it be right that that be follow and I look forward to provide my own evidence . if she have take the time to read the evidence submit to the inquiry , she would have see that the person she mention , the chief scientific adviser , confirm that he do not hear I say that — and that be because I do not . that 1 . 3 million migrant over a period of two year be a catastrophe for Britain be obvious to everyone apart from guilt - ride bourgeois liberal and greed - drive globalist . give that the same kind of people be stymie the Prime Minister ' s " stop the boat " campaign , will he bring urgent measure forward to deal with legal migration , and will he ensure that the Bill he have promise be in exactly the form recommend by his own Immigration Minister ? I be pleased to have my right hon . friend ' s advice and support on all on our measure to tackle legal and illegal migration . as I say , we be review the recommendation of the Migration Advisory Committee and we will be bring forward measure on top of the very significant restriction that we have already announce on student dependant . when it come to stop illegal migration , I have be crystal clear that we will bring forward legislation that make it unequivocally the case that Rwanda be safe and there will be no more ability of our domestic court to block flight to Rwanda . that be what our legislation will ensure . last week , in response to my hon . friend the Member for Stockton North ( Alex Cunningham ) , the Prime Minister claim that the " good way " to stop child live in poverty be for they to have parent who work , but over 70 % of poor child already live in a home where someone go out to work . so I will give he another chance : can he explain why report say that , in 2022 , 1 million of our child experience not just poverty but destitution ? no child should grow up in poverty . that be why I be pleased that , because of the measure we have take , 1 . 7 million few people be live in poverty today than in 2010 . I would also say to the hon . Lady that it be crystal clear that child grow up in workless household be four or five time more likely to be in poverty . that be what the fact say ; that be why our effort be on get people into work and ensure that work pay . the action in the autumn statement to raise the national living wage to record level and provide a significant tax cut will do an extraordinary amount to continue lift child out of poverty . I call Jeremy Wright . thank you , Mr Speaker , for welcome my constituent John Farringdon to Parliament this morning . at 110 year of age , John be among my more experienced constituent , and I know that he would want I to ask the Prime Minister to join we in thank the staff of Cubbington Mill care home for look after he so well . may I also ask my right hon . friend to try to find a moment or two to speak to John when he come to Downing Street this afternoon ? it may be a useful conversation for those who be obsess with the opinion poll , as John , I think it be fair to say , have some experience in survive against the odd . I very much hope that I have a chance to meet John later on . I join my right hon . and learn Friend in pay tribute to John ' s care home for the incredible care that it provide . it be great that John be here and I be sure that everyone will enjoy meet he later today . the Prime Minister may already be aware from his colleague of the exceptional contribution that my constituent Dr Hadoura have make during a 30 - year career in our health service . he may also be aware that , for the past six to eight week , she have be frantic with worry about her 83 - year - old mum , who be trap in Palestine with a number of family member and no way out . will he agree to work with the Foreign Office and the Home Office , during this time of some hope in the middle east , to find an urgent way to get vulnerable people , such as Dr Hadoura ' s mum , out of danger and into a safe place of refuge while we can ? tragically , once the ceasefire end , so too will the chance of survival for too many people in Palestine . I pay tribute to the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent for her long service in the health service . I assure he that we be do everything we can to ensure the safe passage of british national out of Gaza . I will ensure that the Foreign Office get in touch with he . all british national who have be register with the Foreign Office have have significant interaction , and we have successfully ensure the safe passage of well over 200 people already . we will continue to do everything we can for those who remain , and I will ensure that we be in touch with the hon . Gentleman and his constituent . thank to this Conservative Government , the Alexandra Hospital in Redditch have receive nearly £ 19 million of investment , and we be boost training place at the Three Counties Medical School . do the Prime Minister agree that this be the perfect time to back my campaign to bring back service , so that local mum can once again give birth in their home town and all child can be see at the hospital , no matter the illness they be experience ? I know that my hon . friend campaign passionately for the delivery of first - class healthcare for her constituent . like she , I welcome the investment that the Alexandra Hospital have have in recent year in a range of different service . she will know that reconfiguration of service be , of course , clinically lead local decision follow the appropriate engagement with patient and stakeholder , but I know that she will continue to make her case on behalf of her community . in June , the canadian Prime Minister claim that the Indian Government may be link to the killing of canadian Sikh activist Hardeep Singh Nijjar in Canada . now , it be report that the US Government thwart a second assassination attempt on a canadian - american citizen on US soil , so will the Prime Minister reassure my Sikh constituent — who have raise their safety concern with I — that this Government be take the matter very seriously , and will he raise my constituent ' concern with his counterpart in India ? I have already make statement on this matter , but crucially , of course , we ensure the safety of all community in our country . that be the first duty of government , and we will continue to do that , not just for the Sikh community but for every community here in the UK . with both the Office for Budget Responsibility and the ONS confirm that the british economy be now substantially large than they estimate even a few month ago , do my right hon . friend agree that the economy have once again prove the detractor wrong and , because unemployment be a corrosive social evil , will he do all he can to ensure that we retain record employment ? my hon . friend make an excellent point . a year ago , not just the OBR but the Bank of England , the International Monetary Fund and the OECD be all predict that we would fall into a recession this year , but thank to the action of this Government and this Chancellor , we have grow the economy . we see that momentum carry on just in the past week with Nissan ' s announcement of record investment in its new plant in Sunderland , safeguard the future of thousand of job in the north - east and ensure the transition to electric vehicle . we also see it in the summit we host , which attract £ 30 billion of new investment into the UK . as my hon . Friend say , crucially , that investment will support thousand and thousand of job in our country . there be 2 , 500 disuse coal tip in Wales . the Welsh Government previously ask the Treasury for £ 600 million to make they safe , and ahead of the autumn statement seek an initial £ 20 million , but this Tory Government provide nothing . Rhondda Cynon Taf have the most high - risk coal tip of any local authority , and the spectre of Aberfan loom large over our community . do the Prime Minister think it be right that the UK take the economic benefit from Welsh coal , but will not fund the safety of its legacy ? the UK Government be invest in Wales , with record investment in electrification of the north Wales line and record investment in community up and down the country . it be important to recognise that just recently , the UK Government invest hundred of million of pound to safeguard thousand of job at Tata Steel . the Welsh Government have have access to the large set of Barnett consequential on record over the past couple of year , and have the resource they need . thank to this Conservative Government , the people of Stoke - on - Trent North , Kidsgrove and Talke will see over £ 200 million to fix our broken road , the reopening of the Stoke to Leek line , and over £ 30 million to bus back well by introduce fair fare and smart route to well connect our community . however , resident who have a free bus pass be be deny the use of it before 9 . 30 be by Labour - run Stoke - on - Trent City Council , mean that people can not get to their GP appointment or to work . will the Prime Minister back my campaign to end that unfair policy , which be be impose on my resident ? my hon . friend be absolutely right about the importance of high - quality bus service . that be why we have cap the cost of travel on bus at £ 2 until the end of 2024 as a result of our decision on HS2 , and why we have support council with £ 1 billion of funding . I urge all council to ensure that people see the benefit of that investment , and I wholeheartedly back my hon . friend ' s campaign . NHS England have award £ 330 million to Palantir , a controversial technology firm , to help it recover from its pandemic backlog despite deep concern among many healthcare professional about privacy , ethic and the safety of patient datum . in light of the Government ' s recently commission report on unify health datum in the UK , can the Prime Minister confirm that no attempt will be make to force the Scottish Government to release the personal datum of scottish resident to any centralised system ? as the hon . Lady know , healthcare be devolve , but we will look for every opportunity to improve patient care and reduce waiting list in England . that be what we be do in develop new technology that have a prove track record of bring down waiting list and improve the optimisation and efficiency of how theatre be schedule . that be the type of thing we need to do to ensure that patient get the care they need , and that we can get efficiency in the NHS . the increase proliferation of AI - generate disinformation and deepfake pose a clear and present danger not only to our democratic process , but to the administration of justice itself . what further step will my right hon . friend take , follow the Bletchley summit , to strengthen our domestic law when it come to this threat to democracy , and to take international action to provide the guardrail that I believe be essential if we be to maintain integrity in the administration of justice ? I thank my right hon . and learn Friend for all the work he have do in this incredibly important area . he be right that we need to have guardrail around the successful exploitation of this technology , which be why the Online Safety Act 2023 give the regulator significant new power to regulate the content on social medium company , include some of the one that he mention . we be also work internationally , follow on from the summit , to ensure that we can all get the benefit of this technology , but in the process safeguard our democracy , which be so crucial to the functioning of our country . COP28 ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero if she will provide an update on the UK Government ' s commitment in relation to COP28 . I be glad to come to the House to discuss this important subject today . the upcoming COP host by the United Arab Emirates be an important moment in the climate crisis . amid record temperature and emission , the first comprehensive stocktake of progress against the Paris agreement at COP28 will show that the world be badly off - track . we have make significant progress through the Paris agreement , with temperature projection shift from 4 ° C before Paris to between 2 . 4 ° C and 2 . 7 ° C after Glasgow through nationally determined contribution commitment , but we know that that be not enough . in Glasgow , we cement the goal of limit global temperature increase to 1 . 5 ° C as our north star . that have be carry forward by the UAE presidency . the late science and the impact we be see , even at 1 . 1 ° C , show we why . a top priority for the United Kingdom be to leave COP28 with a clear road map towards keep 1 . 5 ° C in reach from the global stocktake . the UK head to COP28 with a record at home and internationally that we can be proud of . the Prime Minister recently affirm our commitment to net zero and set out our new approach to get there . at home , we have decarbonise fast than any other major economy — by 48 % since 1990 . look forward , our 2030 target require the large reduction in emission of any major economy . two year on from Glasgow , the need to accelerate action be more urgent than ever . the world need to decarbonise more than five time fast than we have do in the last two decade . at COP28 , we want to see progress against five area : ambitious new commitment and action , include a pathway to keep 1 . 5 ° C within reach from the global stocktake ; scale up clean energy through commitment to triple renewable , double energy efficiency and move beyond fossil fuel ; progress on finance reform , deliver $ 100 billion for develop economy ; build resilience to climate impact , include by double adaptation finance and establish a loss and damage fund ; and , finally , progress on restore nature . action to deliver net zero be not just a matter of do the right thing by avoid harm ; it be crucial to our security and prosperity here in the UK now and in the future . the global net zero transition could be worth £ 1 trillion to UK business between 2021 and 2030 . UK business be in the vanguard in recognise the opportunity . More than two third of FTSE 100 company , and thousand of small business , have pledge to reduce their emission in line with the 1 . 5 ° c goal under the race to Zero campaign . More than half the signatory to that campaign be from the United Kingdom . net zero be already an engine for growth and revitalisation of formerly deindustrialise area in the United Kingdom . at COP28 we need to show progress in deliver the historic agreement that we land in Glasgow , and we must use our UK expertise to scale green finance . I thank the Minister for her response . cop28 will be the most consequential climate summit since COP21 in Paris , yet we be way off track . the UN ' s recent emission gap report warn that current pledge under the Paris agreement would see temperature rise of between 2 . 5 ° C and 2 . 9 ° C this century . minister be fond of say that the UK have the most ambitious nationally determine contribution for 2030 of any major economy , yet the Minister will also be aware of the Climate Change Committee ' s recent assessment that " the UK be unlikely to meet its NDC " . that be not least because the committee calculate that just 28 % of the require emission reduction for 2030 be cover by credible Government plan . she will know that target without plan be cheap . what concrete plan do the Government have to urgently close that gap ? do she agree that we must see an ambitious outcome from the global stocktake , with significantly strengthen 2030 ndc and new economy - wide target by 2025 that see the rich country go far and fast ? do the Minister share my outrage over report that the UAE plan to use its role as COP28 president to secure oil and gas deal ? what assessment have she make of the impact of that on trust in the negotiation ? will she explain why the UK be push for the phase - out of unabated fossil fuel , rather than of fossil fuel in their entirety ? do she recognise the view of the High Ambition Coalition , which say that we can not use abatement technology to " green - light " fossil fuel expansion ? how will she ensure that any agreement that include language on abatement have real tooth , deliver real cut in fossil fuel production , and do not simply allow for the continuation of business as usual ? the Minister will know that a properly resource and operational loss and damage finance fund must be a litmus test for success at COP28 , but there be report that the Government will be contribute to that fund from their exist climate finance pot . do she agree that we can not tackle ever - increase challenge from an ever - deplete pot of money ? what plan do the Government have for new and additional finance ? what innovative source of finance be they look at ? what assessment have they make of the impact of the UK ' s reclassification of climate finance on climate vulnerable country ? if the Government be serious about lead by example , will they finally reverse the greenlighting of the obscene Rosebank oilfield ? I reiterate that the Government take this issue incredibly seriously , and there be two way of demonstrate that : the Minister for Energy Security and Net Zero , my right hon . friend the Member for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) , who usually deal with such issue , be at COP28 and ready for the conference ; and we now have a distinct Department for this issue , the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero . we know that we be leader in the field . I take this issue seriously , not just for the people of the United Kingdom , but for the planet as a whole . think about my granddaughter , we really do have a commitment to ensure that we be do everything that we can . I call Dr Th é r è se Coffey . [ interruption . ] order . Ms Lucas , I have give you an urgent question . if you have a problem — there be no answer ! please . the Minister will answer as she see fit . I be sure that at the end you will want to raise a point of order . that be the time — you can not have a second bite of the cherry . I go out of my way to ensure that this issue be cover , so please — I be sure other member will ask question , and it be up to the Minister how she answer they . I be not responsible for that . thank you , Mr Speaker , for grant this second opportunity for the House to discuss COP28 . at the debate on 16 November , when the Government grant a full day ' s debate , only three Back Benchers speak — I , and the hon . member for Putney ( Fleur Anderson ) and for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) . there be not a sign of the hon . member for Brighton , Pavilion ( Caroline Lucas ) , who be now complain about the response to her question . by the way , the debate on 16 November finish early because of how few people speak . do my hon . friend agree that " vote blue , go green " be the good way to deliver net zero ? do she recognise that nature - base solution be vital to achieve net zero ? do this not just show again that the Green party be all talk and absolutely no action ? as I have say , it be incredibly important that we head towards our commitment . between 1990 and 2021 , we cut UK emission by 48 % while grow the economy . I agree with my right hon . friend that if we trust this government to deliver , we will ensure we be head on the right path . the other thing to mention be that net zero be an engine for growth and the revitalisation of formerly industrialise area of the UK . cut emission be important not just for the climate , but for our economy . I call the shadow Minister . the UN have warn that the world be on course for a catastrophic 2 . 8 ° c of warming , in part because promise make at COP26 and COP27 have not be fulfil . we be run out of last chance . we know what we need to do and we know how to do it , but where be the sense of urgency ? the Prime Minister be shame into attend COP last year . I would have think he would be ashamed to be there this year , after his climate climbdown last month derail momentum at exactly the wrong time . the world need climate leadership . do the Minister think it be acceptable for the Prime Minister to sabotage the UK ' s history of climate leadership with his cynical backtracking on net zero ? Labour will be go to COP with a message that the UK can be a climate leader again and that , in do so , we will cut energy bill and boost energy independence at home , which this Government have conspicuously fail to do . labour will put the UK back in a position of leadership and establish a clean power alliance . we will pledge to issue no new oil , gas or coal licence and set an example with our mission for clean power by 2030 . what example do it set if the current UK Government ignore the science and global consensus on fossil fuel , especially when the Energy Secretary admit that her policy will not even cut bill ? Labour will also be work for multilateral development bank reform to help develop country access capital , as well as champion the UK as the future green finance capital of the world , with mandatory 1 . 5 ° c - align transition plan for FTSE 100 company and financial institution . can the Minister tell I what the Government will be do to advance that agenda ? there be so much more that the UK can and must do to reduce emission and deliver energy security , to cut energy bill and to back british industry . with Labour , Britain would lead the world at COP . labour be ready to lead ; be the Minister ? as I have mention , we do take this issue incredibly seriously . if I think about some of the fact , as the hon . Member rightly mention , at the G20 the Prime Minister announce $ 2 billion to the green climate fund . that be the big single funding commitment that the UK have make to help the world tackle climate change . half of that contribution will go to adaptation . we be committed , and that be why we have a presence at COP28 . the House will see that senior member of the UK Government be there , as well as King Charles . this country have one of the strong record in the world on reduce emission , not least give our very successful cop26 summit in Glasgow . what progress be be make on deliver the historic commitment to tackle deforestation make by the leader at that summit ? I pay tribute to the work that my right hon . friend have do on this subject . I will need to get back to she with the exact figure on deforestation , if I may . one of the thing that the UK Government be do at COP28 be make sure that we hit the five key area of progress : finance , global stocktake , mitigation , adaptation , and loss and damage — and , within that , nature . I call the SNP spokesperson . the UK Government ' s series of U - turn on net zero target have put our ability to meet they at risk . the Scottish Government be commit to meet our more ambitious target , but Europe and the United States be lead the way as this place lag behind , in turn hold Scotland back . can the Minister confirm whether the new Foreign Secretary , who famously decide to " cut the green crap " , will be attend COP26 ? that move cost UK household £ 2 . 5 billion in extra energy cost . I reassure the hon . Gentleman that we be committed to ensure we hit all those target . as of September 2022 , more than 130 country , account for around 85 % of global emission and more than 90 % of global GDP , be cover by net zero commitment . we be committed to make sure that we hit those target , and that be demonstrate by our attendance at COP28 and the measure we be take to ensure we meet the climate challenge . the Government ' s " mobilise green investment " strategy , publish in March , set out that we need $ 1 trillion a year in green finance by 2030 . what be the Government ' s ambition at COP28 to agree fund anywhere close to that level ? what more can we do to get our private sector and pension scheme to contribute to that ? my hon . friend make an important point . we will have those discussion over the two week of COP28 . we be try to ensure that we hit all the global target , too . I be sure that those conversation will come up , and we can have a discussion on they later . the Minister can talk the talk , but it be action that count . business across every sector , as well as expert in the field , have react with horror to this Government ' s backslide and roll - back on climate action and net zero . in fact , Aviva ' s chief executive , Amanda Blanc , say that the Government be put our climate goal as a country " under threat " and therefore job , growth and investment at risk . do the Minister recognise the damage that be do both at home and to our global standing ? one of the thing that this Government be commit to be ensure that we have skill in place and that the economy be go in the right direction . we be proud of our record , and our commitment to make sure we get to net zero be demonstrate in all the thing we have be do . we be international leader — world leader — in our commitment to ensure that we hit those target . I welcome that two of the 34 new landscape recovery scheme be in west Cornwall and on Scilly , and I credit the Cornwall Wildlife Trust , Farm Cornwall , the Duchy , other organisation and in particular the landowner for their incredible work to achieve that . at previous climate change conference , specifically the Paris summit , we agree to fix our leaky home . will the Minister meet I to discuss how we can accelerate that effort , especially for low - income family ? I know what a champion my hon . friend be for his constituent . I will of course meet he , although perhaps a meeting with the relevant Minister would be more appropriate . we be committed to make sure that we have that extra security . that be why we be make such an investment in work towards energy security , while at the same time work towards net zero . the UK be a leader in offshore wind development but be now fall seriously behind . cost to offshore wind developer have increase by as much as 40 % . the recent offshore wind auction failure will have cost the UK 5 GW of new renewable energy , and that be entirely predictable . how will the Prime Minister be able to look in the eye the leader of country that be suffer most from the impact of climate change and say , " the UK do everything it can " ? first , we be world leader on offshore energy . that be one of our commitment , but we do not just rest on our laurel and think about offshore wind ; we be also look at other way to generate electricity , which be much need , include fusion and small modular reactor . the hon . Lady suggest we be not take into account where we should be go on energy , but we be world leader and we be ensure that we have an impact on our future . I be look forward to go to COP as one of the member of the Energy Security and Net Zero Committee . last week the Committee go to see the world ' s first green hydrogen neighbourhood project in Fife in Scotland . local people be give the choice to switch to innovative clean green hydrogen heating and nearly half of they have take that choice . do the Minister agree that one of the big challenge to achieve next zero be achieve that consumer change , and that this be why it be so important that we offer consumer innovation and choice rather than the top - down " tax and ban " approach that the opposition so often promote ? my hon . friend make an important point . it be about education ; ensure that people be educate and think about how we use our future energy . however , it be also incumbent on we to ensure that we offer choice , which be why we be committed to offshore and to make sure that we be invest in science and technology and get all of that technology available , thus make energy available in lot of different form . after the last cop , the Prime Minister at the time , Boris Johnson , assure the House that there would be no funding whatsoever from british source for fossil fuel development anywhere in the world . since then , the UK Government have announce their own fossil fuel development with oil and gas extraction , so how on earth do the Minister expect to be take seriously at COP when Britain itself be invest more in fossil fuel and then lecture the rest of the world that they should not do so ? can she assure we that this COP be not just go to be an exercise in greenwash with a sideshow of oil dealing , and that it be go to be a serious attempt to deal with the serious , fundamental issue that this planet face ? yes , UK production be decline . when we think about oil and gas , it be important that we think about have a balanced approach and make sure that we keep our supply go as it should . one of the thing we be commit to be make sure that , on balance , we also have other option available . it be important to remember that , from an economic point of view , the job that be create be really important , from an oil and gas point of view , and of course that will be invest in green energy as well , so it be a cyclical thing to make sure that we be invest in our future . have spend a year in the Energy Department , it have be an absolute pleasure to see how civil servant , business , the public and , indeed , minister be at the forefront of ensure that the UK be the major economy that have decarbonise furth and fast in the world . we account for only 1 % of emission . we have the big offshore wind farm in the world , as well as the second big and the third big . we have more solar panel than France . we really be lead the way . so when we go to COP , we need to make sure that other see that there be an advantage in do this and join we on that journey . what will the Minister ' s message be at COP to make sure that the world join we on this journey ? I thank my hon . friend for make those point . he have work closely with the Department and see at first hand the work that we have be do , and it be good to hear that reiterate in the House . one of the thing that we be look for be success at COP28 , and success would be make sure that we be support those five measure but also progress and make sure that we have a commitment to the world ' s future and make a green climate . the Government be go into these global climate talk have announce new North sea oil and gas field . if every country copy this Government ' s approach of squeeze out every last drop of oil and gas , we would risk extreme global temperature rise of 3 ° c . every respected climate body have warn of the danger of this approach , so at the climate talk why should any other country listen to this government when their policy be not compatible with the UK ' s own climate commitment ? of course we be commit to do other thing as well , which be what I be reiterate . we have a commitment to make sure that we learn from research and development , and that we be look at offshore wind , but we also need to be realistic , which be why we be look at oil and gas . it will have an impact on the economy and it will help towards a green economy because of the investment that will be make through the oil and gas finance . climate change be the single big threat to humanity , and I will be look forward to attend COP28 myself . I be pleased that it be take place in the middle east , give the need to transition away from fossil fuel . we seem to forget our own history , because it be we — in Persia , in Mesopotamia and on the arab peninsula — that get the middle east on to the road of oil and gas exploration . do my hon . friend agree that we be able to get our co2 emission down today because of the offshore wind farm in the english channel , and that those be the result of a lot of investment from the United Arab Emirates ? it be always a great pleasure to listen to my right hon . friend , who remind we of the history and of how we get to this point . however , we need to acknowledge all the good thing that we be do , and I reiterate that we be look at ensure sure that we have a secure energy future . be it not just a little bit embarrassing that as Ministers head to the Gulf for COP , the European Marine Energy Centre in my constituency be have to consult on downsize and restructuring because the Minister ' s colleague in the Department of Levelling up , Housing and Communities have be unable to provide the three - year funding stream that they have previously undertake to provide ? will she speak to her colleague in DLUHC to ensure that some certainty on that money can be give , and that the centre can continue its genuinely world - lead work on the development of marine renewable energy ? that be obviously not my Department , but I would be happy to take that away and facilitate a meeting , or indeed have a meeting myself . new research by Ulster University find that over 60 % of home in Northern Ireland will need to be retrofit if we be to have a chance of meet our net zero target , and that at the current rate of retrofit we have no chance of meet our 2030 goal . do the Minister believe that the support available to provider , such as the Northern Ireland Housing Executive and housing association across the region , be adequate to allow they to tackle the climate breakdown and fuel poverty ? far , know the impact of climate change on the poor country in the world , will the Government finally make real the loss and damage fund to help those most affected to adapt and mitigate , and will she ensure that that fund be new money and not just a raid on exist press aid budget ? with the hon . Lady ' s permission , I would prefer to write to she , because part of those question be slightly outside my remit . however , I reiterate that one of the thing we be determined to do be tackle fuel poverty . that be one of the reason why we have a commitment to do this . also , there be a lot of support that people can get , and I would encourage everybody to get what they be entitle to . I have some great green innovator in my constituency , but it have be heartbreake speak to they over the last few month about the impact that the Government ' s suppose reset on net zero be have on their business . they include new fuel cell producer , green aviation leader , company provide key supply chain part to the car industry and renewable energy company . their business may be different , but the story be the same . the lack of action from the Government be make it hard for they to get investment , hard for they to create job and hard for they to bring growth to Mid Bedfordshire . my constituent ultimately see through the Government ' s shallow positioning on this issue , hearteningly for I , but it be unfortunate that this issue continue to hang over their prospect . how can we show leadership on this issue at COP28 at a time when the Government can not even get out of the way of people look to bring growth to my constituent ? this Government have demonstrate a commitment to investment in all these area . particularly from a science and technology point of view , I know that UK Trade and Investment have immense commitment and give out support for this . but there be many thing that we have be do . we have not just be invest in R & D from a science point of view . what we be do be invest in offshore wind , in alternative fuel and in all those thing that will enable we to get to where we need to be . in the UK , heating home account for 14 % of carbon emission , and in England our home produce more emission than car do . that be not only cost the environment in the future ; it be also cost taxpayer now . a decade ago , the then Prime Minister Cameron ' s " green crap " riddance result in uninsulated loft and in cavity wall be leave unfilled . give that that decision be now add billion in additional cost to taxpayer and make it hard to meet the 2030 decarbonisation target , can the Minister ask the Foreign Secretary whether he regret it ? we be invest in make sure that home be insulate and energy efficient . it be worth point out that between 1990 and 2021 the UK cut emission by 48 % , while grow the economy by more than 70 % . I can , of course , pass on the hon . Gentleman ' s message to the Foreign Secretary . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I would appreciate any advice you can give I on a matter of great interest and concern to my constituent . it relate to the attitude of National Highways official in the north - west office . a freedom of information request reveal several email that , in my view , show a worrying lack of candour and transparency in National Highways ' dealing with I in relation to the replacement of a footbridge on a major road in my constituency . in particular , I have be accuse of " whip up a frenzy " among my constituent in relation to that important safety matter — I be do my job , not whip up a frenzy . any advice from you would be welcome . I thank the hon . gentleman for give I notice of his point of order . I certainly agree that he , or any other Member , should not be criticise for pursue issue of concern to their constituent . the hon . Gentleman have put his concern on the record , and I believe the Minister may wish to make a quick point . far to that point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . the hon . member for Bootle ( Peter Dowd ) be kind enough to notify I of his intention to make a point of order and I have already begin the process of look into it . it be fair to say that he be a friend of mine , although I know that many will hold that against he . he be merely do his job , and I will make sure that that continue . I be about to say that the hon . Gentleman might want to consider raise the issue with Ministers , but that have already happen . I be grateful to the Minister , and I be sure that the issue will be consider between the two of they . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I be very grateful to Mr Speaker for grant my urgent question , but do you have any advice on what can be do when a Minister simply refuse to answer a single question and essentially abuse the procedure of the House ? I ask 12 question in good faith . the Minister be on her foot for 49 second , during which time we learn that the Secretary of State be at COP , that there be a Department for Energy Security and Net Zero , and that the Minister ' s granddaughter care a lot about the planet . that be all very fascinating but it do not answer a single one of my question . how can we do our job as member hold the Government to account when Ministers can stand at the Dispatch Box for 49 second and not answer a single question on an issue deem worthy of an urgent question ? I thank the hon . Lady for her point of order , but I be not responsible for the answer give by Ministers . I believe the Minister would like to say something . far to that point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I believe that I have answer most of the question the hon . Lady ask in my opening remark . my understanding be that I be to give a short response . if there be anything I have not respond to , I be happy to respond in writing . my right hon . friend the Member for Suffolk Coastal ( Dr Coffey ) make the important point that there have be previous debate on this issue , and I suggest that if the hon . Lady have turn up to those debate , she would have be able to have a fuller — [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] order . I thank the Minister for that response . both the hon . Lady and the Minister have put their view on the record . I be sure that there will be further opportunity after the summit for the issue to be discuss . rise — I do not want to prolong this exchange , but I will allow a very brief point . on the point make by the right hon . member for Suffolk Coastal ( Dr Coffey ) and just now by the Minister , they will know that there be one person represent my party and I can not be in two place at once — I be work on it ! there be 350 conservative Members , and just one Back Bencher be at the debate last week . I suggest that they look at get their own house in order before criticise this side . this be get way beyond anything resemble a point of order , so we should move on swiftly . Bill Presented Post Office ( Horizon System ) Compensation Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Secretary Kemi Badenoch , support by the Prime Minister , Secretary Oliver Dowden , Secretary James Cleverly , Secretary Grant Shapps , Secretary Alex Chalk , Secretary Michelle Donelan , Secretary Michael Gove , Secretary Mel Stride and Secretary Alister Jack , present a Bill to provide for the payment out of money provide by Parliament of expenditure incur by the Secretary of State under , or in connection with , scheme or other arrangement to compensate person affect by the Horizon system and in respect of other matter identify in legal proceeding relate to the Horizon system . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time tomorrow , and to be print ( Bill 16 ) with explanatory note ( Bill 16 - EN ) . Data Protection and Digital Information Bill Bill to be consider Mr Speaker have select the recommittal motion in the name of Sir Chris Bryant . I call he to move the motion . I beg to move , that the Bill be re - committed to a Public Bill Committee . first , I wish to briefly refer to the death yesterday morning of my predecessor as Member of Parliament for Rhondda , Allan Rogers . I know that many member find he a good colleague to work with , and I believe that he spend many hour on the Channel Tunnel Act 1987 . I sometimes think that the people who do such Bills on behalf of all of we deserve a medal . I be sure the whole House send its good regard and deep condolence to his family . our core job as member of Parliament be the scrutiny of legislation , tease out whether a proposal will do what it say , whether it be necessary and proportionate , and whether it have public support . the Government have have total control of the Order Paper since 1902 , so we can do that job properly only if the Government get their act together and play ball . that be what enable the line - by - line consideration of the law that bind we . it be what make we a function democracy . we need to send the Bill back to Committee because we simply can not do that job properly today . let we recall how we get here . a first version of the Data Protection and Digital Information Bill be introduce by the previous Member for Mid Bedfordshire on 18 July 2022 . it be such a mess that it never even make it to Second reading . Nadine Dorries be sack in September last year , and six month later the Bill be sack as well , to be replace by a new and improve no . 2 Bill , which have its second reading on 17 April and complete its Committee stage on 24 May . that be 190 day ago . I do not know what have prompt all the delay . be it the general chaos in Government ? perhaps the Government do not fully understand the term " with immediate effect " . I like the Minister , and I have know and work with he on many different issue for many year . I have a meeting with he and his official on Thursday 16 November . he tell I then that on Report the Government would table only a few minor and technical amendment to the Bill , which he hope everyone would be able to agree fairly easily . on the last available day , 182 day after Committee , the Government bring out 240 amendment . some be indeed minor and technical , but many be very significant . they strike to the heart of the independence of the new Information Commission , they alter the right of the public in make subject access request , and they amend our system in a way that may or may not enhance our data adequacy with the US and the European Union and therefore british business ' ability to rely on UK legislation to trade overseas . in some instance , they give very extensive new power to Ministers , and they introduce completely new topic that have never be previously moot , debate or scrutinise by Parliament in relation to this Bill , which already have more bauble on it than the proverbial Christmas tree . the end result be that we have 156 page of amendment to consider today in a single debate . yes , we could have table amendment to the Government amendment , but they would not have be selectable , and we would not have be able to vote on they . so the way the Government have act , whether knowingly , recklessly or incompetently , mean that the Commons can not carry out line - by - line consideration of what will amount to more than 90 page of new law , 38 new clause and two new schedule , one of which be 19 page long . some measure will barely get a minute ' s consideration today . that be not scrutiny ; it be a blank cheque . yesterday , I make a generous offer to the Minister for Disabled People , Health and Work , the hon . member for Corby ( Tom Pursglove ) , who be sit on the Front Bench and whom I also like . we recognise that some of the issue need to be address , so we say : " recommit the Bill so we can help you get this right in the Commons , and we will commit to have it out of Committee in a fortnight . it could go to the Lords with all party ' support by Christmas . " let I repeat : this be no way to scrutinise a Bill , particularly one that give the Government sweep power and limit the right of our fellow citizen , the public . sadly , it be part of a grow trend , but " legislate at speed , repent at leisure " should not be our motto . some will say something that be commonly say these day : " let it go through to the Lords so they can amend it . " but I be sick of abdicate responsibility for get legislation right . it be our responsibility . we should not send Bills through that be , at good , half - consider . we be the elect representative . we can not just pass the parcel to the Lords . we need to do our job properly . we can not do that today without recommit the Bill . I begin by join the hon . member for Rhondda ( Sir Chris Bryant ) in express the condolence of the House to his predecessor , Allan Rogers . he serve as a Member of Parliament during my first nine year in this place . I remember he as an assiduous constituency Member of Parliament , and I be sure we all share the sentiment express by the hon . Gentleman . it be a pleasure to return to the Dispatch Box to lead the House through Report stage of the Bill . we spend considerable time discuss it in Committee , but the hon . Gentleman be not in his post at that time . I welcome he to his position . he may regret that he miss out on Committee stage , which make he keen to return to it today . the Bill be an essential piece of legislation that will update the UK ' s data law , make they among the most effective in the world . we scrutinise it in depth in Committee . the hon . Gentleman be right that the Government have table a number of amendment for the House to consider today , and he have do the same . the vast majority be technical , and the number sound large because a lot be consequential on original amendment . one or two address new aspect , and I will be happy to speak to those as we go through they during this afternoon ' s debate . nevertheless , they represent important addition to the Bill . the Minister for Disabled People , Health and Work , my hon . friend the Member for Corby ( Tom Pursglove ) , who be sit next to I , have draw the House ' s attention to the fact that amend the Bill to allow the Department for Work and Pensions access to financial datum will make a significant contribution to identify fraud . I would have think that the opposition would welcome that . it be not a new measure ; it be contain in the fraud plan that the Government publish back in May 2022 . the Government have be examine that measure , and we have always make it clear that we would bring it forward at an appropriate parliamentary time when a vehicle be available . this be a data bill , and the measure be specific to it . we estimate that it will result in a saving to the taxpayer of around £ 500 million by the end of 2028 - 29 . I be surprised that the opposition should question that . as I say , the Bill have be consider at length in Committee . it be important that we consider it on Report , in order that it achieve the next stage of its progress through Parliament . on that basis , I reject the motion . question put . Debbie Abrahams Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Paula Barker Hilary Benn Clive Betts Ian Blackford Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Gregory Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Neil Coyle Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Edward Davey Alex Davies - Jones David Davis Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Jeffrey M . Donaldson Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Jonathan Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Chris Elmore Bill Esterson Chris Evans Tim Farron Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Colleen Fletcher Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Marcus Fysh Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Paul Girvan Mary Glindon Patrick Grady Peter Grant Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Louise Haigh Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris draw Hendry Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Peter Kyle Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood David Linden Tony Lloyd Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Ian Murray James Murray Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Matthew Pennycook Bridget Phillipson Lucy Powell Angela Rayner Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Gavin Robinson Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Michael Shanks Jim Shannon Virendra Sharma Tommy Sheppard Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Alex Sobel John Spellar Keir Starmer Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Alistair Strathern Mark Tami Alison Thewliss Gareth Thomas Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz christian Wakeford Catherine West Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Gerald Jones Andrew Western Bim Afolami Nickie Aiken Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Scott Benton Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Karen Bradley Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Conor Burns Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Andy Carter James Cartlidge Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Oliver Dowden Jackie Doyle - Price Flick Drummond Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Lucy Frazer Louie French Richard Fuller Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon Robert Goodwill Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Ranil Jayawardena Andrea Jenkyns Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger Kwasi Kwarteng John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Tim Loughton Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall Jacob Rees - Mogg Angela Richardson Rob Roberts Laurence Robertson Mary Robinson Lee Rowley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew Selous Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chris Skidmore Chloe Smith Greg Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Robin Walker Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Joy Morrissey Mark Jenkinson the House divide : Ayes 209 , Noes 275 . question accordingly negative . New Clause 6 - process in reliance on relevant international law " ( 1 ) the UK GDPR be amend in accordance with subsection ( 2 ) to ( 5 ) . ( 2 ) in article 6 ( 3 ) ( lawfulness of processing : basis in domestic law ) — ( a ) in the first subparagraph , omit " and ( e ) " , ( b ) after that subparagraph insert — " the basis for the processing refer to in point ( e ) of paragraph 1 must be lay down by domestic law or relevant international law ( see section 9a of the 2018 Act ) . " ( c ) in the last subparagraph , in the last sentence , after " domestic law " insert " or relevant international law " . ( 3 ) in article 8a ( 3 ) ( e ) ( purpose limitation : far processing necessary to safeguard an objective list in article 23 ( 1 ) ) ( insert by section 6 of this Act ) , at the end insert " or by relevant international law ( see section 9a of the 2018 Act ) " . ( 4 ) in article 9 ( processing of special category of personal datum ) — ( a ) in paragraph 2 ( g ) ( substantial public interest ) , after " domestic law " insert " , or relevant international law , " , and ( b ) in paragraph 5 , before point ( a ) insert — " ( za ) section 9a make provision about when the requirement in paragraph 2 ( g ) of this article for a basis in relevant international law be meet ; " ( 5 ) in article 10 ( processing of personal datum relate to criminal conviction and offence ) — ( a ) in paragraph 1 , after " domestic law " insert " , or relevant international law , " , and ( b ) in paragraph 2 , before point ( a ) insert — " ( za ) section 9a make provision about when the requirement in paragraph 1 of this article for authorisation by relevant international law be meet ; " ( 6 ) the 2018 Act be amend in accordance with subsection ( 7 ) and ( 8 ) . ( 7 ) before section 10 ( and the italic head before that section ) insert — " relevant international law 9a process in reliance on relevant international law ( 1 ) processing of personal datum meet the requirement in Article 6 ( 3 ) , 8a ( 3 ) ( e ) , 9 ( 2 ) ( g ) or 10 ( 1 ) of the UK GDPR for a basis in , or authorisation by , relevant international law only if it meet a condition in Schedule A1 . ( 2 ) a condition in Schedule A1 may be rely on for the purpose of any of those provision , unless that schedule provide otherwise . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation amend Schedule A1 by add , vary or omitting — ( a ) condition , ( b ) provision about the purpose for which a condition may be rely on , and ( c ) safeguard in connection with processing carry out in reliance on a condition in the Schedule . ( 4 ) regulation under this section may only add a condition relate entirely or partly to a treaty ratify by the United Kingdom . ( 5 ) regulation under this section be subject to the affirmative resolution procedure . ( 6 ) in this section , " treaty " and " ratify " have the same meaning as in Part 2 of the Constitutional Reform and Governance Act 2010 ( see section 25 of that Act ) . " ( 8 ) before Schedule 1 insert — " Schedule A1 - Processing in reliance on relevant international law this condition be meet where the processing be necessary for the purpose of respond to a request make in accordance with the Agreement between the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the Government of the United States of America on Access to Electronic Data for the Purpose of counter Serious Crime , sign on 3 October 2019 . " " — ( Sir John Whittingdale . ) this new clause provide expressly that , for the purpose of satisfy requirement in Articles 6 ( 1 ) ( e ) , 8a ( 3 ) ( e ) , 9 ( 2 ) ( g ) and 10 ( 1 ) of the UK GDPR , a controller or processor may rely on process have a basis in , or be authorise by , certain international law . bring up , and read the first time . 1 . 37 pm I beg to move , that the clause be read a second time . with this it will be convenient to discuss the follow : government new clause 48 — processing of personal datum reveal political opinion . government new clause 7 — search in response to data subject ' request . government new clause 8 — notice from the Information Commissioner . government new clause 9 — court procedure in connection with subject access request . government new clause 10 — approval of a supplementary code . government new clause 11 — designation of a supplementary code . government new clause 12 — List of recognise supplementary code . government new clause 13 — change to condition for approval or designation . government new clause 14 — revision of a recognise supplementary code . government new clause 15 — application for approval and re - approval . government new clause 16 — fee for approval , re - approval and continue approval . government new clause 17 — request for withdrawal of approval . government new clause 18 — Removal of designation . government new clause 19 — registration of additional service . government new clause 20 — supplementary note . government new clause 21 — addition of service to supplementary note . government new clause 22 — duty to remove service from the DVS register . government new clause 23 — duty to remove supplementary note from the DVS register . government new clause 24 — duty to remove service from supplementary note . government new clause 25 — index of define term for Part 2 . government new clause 26 — power relate to verification of identity or status . government new clause 27 — interface body . government new clause 28 — the FCA and financial service interface . government new clause 29 — the FCA and financial service interface : supplementary . government new clause 30 — the FCA and financial service interface : penalty and levy . government new clause 31 — liability and damage . government new clause 32 — other datum provision . government new clause 33 — Duty to notify the Commissioner of personal datum breach : time period . government new clause 34 — power to require information for social security purpose . government new clause 35 — retention of information by provider of internet service in connection with death of child . government new clause 36 — retention of biometric datum and recordable offence . government new clause 37 — retention of pseudonymise biometric datum . government new clause 38 — retention of biometric datum from INTERPOL . government new clause 39 — National Underground Asset Register . government new clause 40 — information in relation to apparatus . government new clause 41 — pre - commencement consultation . government new clause 42 — transfer of certain function of Secretary of State . new clause 1 — processing of datum in relation to a case - file prepare by the police service for submission to the Crown Prosecution Service for a charge decision — " ( 1 ) the 2018 Act be amend in accordance with subsection ( 2 ) . ( 2 ) in the 2018 Act , after section 40 insert — " 40a process of datum in relation to a case - file prepare by the police service for submission to the Crown Prosecution Service for a charge decision ( 1 ) this section apply to a set of processing operation consist of the preparation of a case - file by the police service for submission to the Crown Prosecution Service for a charge decision , the making of a charge decision by the Crown Prosecution Service , and the return of the case - file by the Crown Prosecution Service to the police service after a charging decision have be make . ( 2 ) the police service be not oblige to comply with the first data protection principle except insofar as that principle require process to be fair , or the third datum protection principle , in prepare a case - file for submission to the Crown Prosecution Service for a charge decision . ( 3 ) the Crown Prosecution Service be not oblige to comply with the first data protection principle except insofar as that principle require process to be fair , or the third datum protection principle , in make a charge decision on a case - file submit for that purpose by the police service . ( 4 ) if the Crown Prosecution Service decide that a charge will not be pursue when it make a charge decision on a case - file submit for that purpose by the police service it must take all step reasonably require to destroy and delete all copy of the case - file in its possession . ( 5 ) if the Crown Prosecution Service decide that a charge will be pursue when it make a charge decision on a case - file submit for that purpose by the police service it must return the case - file to the police service and take all step reasonably require to destroy and delete all copy of the case - file in its possession . ( 6 ) where the Crown Prosecution Service decide that a charge will be pursue when it make a charge decision on a case - file submit for that purpose by the police service and return the case - file to the police service under subsection ( 5 ) , the police service must comply with the first data protection principle and the third data protection principle in relation to any subsequent processing of the datum contain in the case - file . ( 7 ) for the purpose of this section — ( a ) the police service mean — ( i ) constabulary maintain by virtue of an enactment , or ( ii ) subject to section 126 of the Criminal Justice and Public Order Act 1994 ( prison staff not to be regard as in police service ) , any other service whose member have the power or privilege of a constable . ( b ) the preparation of , or prepare , a case - file by the police service for submission to the Crown Prosecution Service for a charge decision include the submission of the file . ( c ) a case - file include all information obtain by the police service for the purpose of prepare a case - file for submission to the Crown Prosecution Service for a charge decision . " " this new clause adjust Section 40 of the Data Protection Act 2018 to exempt the police service and the Crown Prosecution Service from the first and third datum protection principle contain within the 2018 Act so that they can share unredacted datum with one another when make a charge decision . new clause 2 — common standard and timeline for implementation — " ( 1 ) within one month of the passage of this Act , the Secretary of State must by regulation require those appoint as decision - maker to create , publish and update as require open and common standard for access to customer datum and business datum . ( 2 ) standard create by virtue of subsection ( 1 ) must be interoperable with those create as a consequence of Part 2 of the Retail Banking Market Investigation Order 2017 , make by the Competition and Markets Authority . ( 3 ) regulation under section 66 and 68 must ensure interoperability of customer datum and business datum with standard create by virtue of subsection ( 1 ) . ( 4 ) within one month of the passage of this Act , the Secretary of State must publish a list of the sector to which regulation under section 66 and section 68 will apply within three year of the passage of the Act , and the date by which those regulation will take effect in each case . " this new clause , which be intend to be place in Part 3 ( customer datum and business datum ) of the Bill , would require interoperability across all sector of the economy in smart datum standard , include the Open Banking standard already in effect , and the publication of a timeline for implementation . new clause 3 — provision about representation of datum subject — " ( 1 ) section 190 of the Data Protection Act 2018 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in subsection ( 1 ) , leave out " after the report under section 189 ( 1 ) be lay before Parliament , the Secretary of State may " and insert " the Secretary of State must , within three month of the passage of the Data Protection and Digital Information Act 2024 , " . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to exercise power under s190 dpa2018 to allow organisation to raise data breach complaint on behalf of data subject generally , in the absence of a particular subject who wish to bring forward a claim about misuse of their own personal datum . new clause 4 — Review of notification of change of circumstance legislation — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must commission a review of the operation of the Social Security ( Notification of Changes of circumstance ) Regulations 2010 . ( 2 ) in conduct the review , the designate reviewer must — ( a ) consider the current operation and effectiveness of the legislation ; ( b ) identify any gap in its operation and provision ; ( c ) consider and publish recommendation as to how the scope of the legislation could be expand to include non - public sector , voluntary and private sector holder of personal datum . ( 3 ) in undertake the review , the reviewer must consult — ( a ) specialist in datum sharing ; ( b ) people and organisation who campaign for the interest of people affect by the legislation ; ( c ) people and organisation who use the legislation ; ( d ) any other person and organisation the review consider appropriate . ( 4 ) the Secretary of State must lay a report of the review before each House of Parliament within six month of this Act come into force . " this new clause require a review of the operation of the " tell we once " programme , which seek to provide simple mechanism for citizen to pass information regard birth and death to government , and consideration of whether the progress of " tell we once " could be extend to non - public sector holder of datum . new clause 5 — definition of " biometric datum " — " article 9 of the UK GDPR be amend by the omission , in paragraph 1 , of the word " for the purpose of uniquely identify a natural person " . " this new clause would amend the UK General Data Protection Regulation to extend the protection currently in place for biometric datum for identification to include biometric datum for the purpose of classification . new clause 43 — right to use non - digital verification service — " ( 1 ) this section apply when an organisation — ( a ) require an individual to use a verification service , and ( b ) use a digital verification service for that purpose . ( 2 ) the organisation — ( a ) must make a non - digital alternative method of verification available to any individual require to use a verification service , and ( b ) must provide information about digital and non - digital method of verification to those individual before verification be require . " this new clause , which be intend for insertion into Part 2 of the Bill ( Digital verification service ) , create the right for datum subject to use non - digital identity verification service as an alternative to digital verification service , thereby prevent digital verification from become mandatory in certain setting . new clause 44 — transfer of function to the Investigatory Powers Commissioner ' s Office — " the function of the Surveillance Camera Commissioner be transfer to the Investigatory Powers Commissioner . " new clause 45 — Interoperability of datum and collection of comparable healthcare statistic across the UK — " ( 1 ) the Health and Social Care Act 2012 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) after section 250 , insert the following section — " 250A Interoperability of datum and collection of comparable healthcare statistic across the UK ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must prepare and publish an information standard specify bind datum interoperability requirement which apply across the whole of the United Kingdom . ( 2 ) an information standard prepare and publish under this section — ( a ) must include guidance about the implementation of the standard ; ( b ) may apply to any public body which exercise function in connection with the provision of health service anywhere in the United Kingdom . ( 3 ) a public body to which an information standard prepare and publish under this section apply must have regard to the standard . ( 4 ) the Secretary of State must report to Parliament each year on progress on the implementation of an information standard prepare in accordance with this section . ( 5 ) for the purpose of this section — " health service " have the same meaning as in section 250 of this Act , except that for " in England " there be substitute " anywhere in the United Kingdom " , and " the health service " in part of the United Kingdom other than England have the meaning give by the relevant statute of that part of the United Kingdom ; " public body " have the same meaning as in section 250 of this Act . " ( 3 ) in section 254 ( power to direct NHS England to establish information system ) , after subsection ( 2 ) , insert — " ( 2A ) the Secretary of State must give a direction under subsection ( 1 ) direct NHS England to collect and publish information about healthcare performance and outcome in all part of the United Kingdom in a way which enable comparison between different part of the United Kingdom . ( 2B ) before give a direction by virtue of subsection ( 2A ) , the Secretary of State must consult — ( a ) the body responsible for the collection and publication of official statistic in each part of the United Kingdom , ( b ) Scottish Ministers , ( c ) Welsh Ministers , and ( d ) Northern Ireland department . ( 2C ) the Secretary of State may not give a direction by virtue of subsection ( 2A ) unless a copy of the direction have be lay before , and approve by resolution of , both Houses of Parliament . ( 2D ) Scottish Ministers , Welsh Ministers and Northern Ireland department must arrange for the information relate to the health service for which they have responsibility describe in the direction give by virtue of subsection ( 2A ) to be make available to NHS England in accordance with the direction . ( 2e ) for the purpose of a direction give by virtue of subsection ( 2A ) , the definition of " health and social care body " give in section 259 ( 11 ) apply as if for " England " there be substitute " the United Kingdom " . " " new clause 46 — assessment of impact of Act on EU adequacy — " ( 1 ) within six month of the passage of this Act , the Secretary of State must carry out an assessment of the impact of the Act on EU adequacy , and lie a report of that assessment before both Houses of Parliament . ( 2 ) the report must assess the impact on — ( a ) data risk , and ( b ) small and medium - sized business . ( 3 ) the report must quantify the impact of the Act in financial term . " new clause 47 — Review of the impact of the Act on anonymisation and the identifiability of datum subject — " ( 1 ) within six month of the passage of this Act , the Secretary of State must lay before Parliament the report of an assessment of the impact of the measure in the Act on anonymisation and the identifiability of datum subject . ( 2 ) the report must include a comparison between the right afford to datum subject under this Act with those afford to datum subject by the EU General Data Protection Regulation . " Amendment 278 , in clause 5 , page 6 , line 15 , leave out paragraph ( b ) and ( c ) . this amendment and Amendment 279 would remove the power for the Secretary of State to create pre - define and pre - authorise " recognise legitimate interest " , for datum processing . instead , the current test would continue to apply in which personal datum can only be process in pursuit of a legitimate interest , as balance with individual right and freedom . amendment 279 , page 6 , line 23 , leave out subsection ( 4 ) , ( 5 ) and ( 6 ) . see explanatory statement to Amendment 278 . amendment 230 , page 7 , leave out line 1 and 2 and insert — " 8 . the Secretary of State may not make regulation under paragraph 6 unless a draft of the regulation have be lay before both Houses of Parliament for the 60 - day period . 8a . the Secretary of State must consider any representation make during the 60 - day period in respect of anything in the draft regulation lay under paragraph 8 . 8b . if , after the end of the 60 - day period , the Secretary of State wish to proceed to make the regulation , the Secretary of State must lay before Parliament a draft of the regulation ( incorporate any change the Secretary of State consider appropriate pursuant to paragraph 8a ) . 8c . draft regulation lay under paragraph 8b must , before the end of the 40 - day period , have be approve by a resolution of each House of Parliament . 8D . in this article — " the 40 - day period " mean the period of 40 day begin on the day on which the draft regulation mention in paragraph 8 be lay before Parliament ( or , if it be not lay before each House of Parliament on the same day , the later of the day on which it be lay ) ; " the 60 - day period " mean the period of 60 day begin on the day on which the draft regulation mention in paragraph 8b be lay before Parliament ( or , if it be not lay before each House of Parliament on the same day , the later of the day on which it be lay ) . 8e . when calculate the 40 - day period or the 60 - day period for the purpose of paragraph 8D , ignore any period during which Parliament be dissolve or prorogue or during which both house be adjourn for more than 4 day . " this amendment would make regulation make in respect of recognised legitimate interest subject to a super - affirmative parliamentary procedure . amendment 11 , page 7 , line 12 , at end insert — " " internal administrative purpose " , in relation to special category datum , mean the condition set out for lawful processing in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 of the Data Protection Act 2018 . " this amendment clarify that the processing of special category datum in employment must follow establish principle for reasonable processing , as define by paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 of the Data Protection Act 2018 . government amendment 252 . amendment 222 , page 10 , line 8 , leave out clause 8 . amendment 3 , in clause 8 , page 10 , leave out line 31 . this amendment would mean that the resource available to the controller could not be take into account when determine whether a request be vexatious or excessive . amendment 2 , page 11 , line 34 , at end insert — " ( 6a ) when inform the datum subject of the reason for not take action on the request in accordance with subsection ( 6 ) , the controller must provide evidence of why the request have be treat as vexatious or excessive . " this amendment would require the data controller to provide evidence of why a request have be consider vexatious or excessive if the controller be refuse to take action on the request . government amendment 17 . amendment 223 , page 15 , line 22 , leave out clause 10 . amendment 224 , page 18 , line 7 , leave out clause 12 . amendment 236 , in clause 12 , page 18 , line 21 , at end insert — " ( c ) a data subject be an identified or identifiable individual who be affect by a significant decision , irrespective of the direct presence of their personal datum in the decision - make process . " this amendment would clarify that a " datum subject " include identifiable individual who be subject to data - base and automate decision - making , whether or not their personal datum be directly present in the decision - make process . amendment 232 , page 19 , line 12 , leave out " solely " and insert " predominantly " . this amendment would mean safeguard for datum subject ' right , freedom and legitimate interest would have to be in place in case where a significant decision in relation to a data subject be take base predominantly , rather than solely , on automate processing . amendment 5 , page 19 , line 12 , after " solely " insert " or partly " . this amendment would mean that the protection provide for by the new Article 22c would apply where a decision be base either solely or partly on automate processing , not only where it be base solely on such processing . amendment 233 , page 19 , line 18 , at end insert " include the reason for the processing . " this amendment would require datum controller to provide the datum subject with the reason for the processing of their datum in case where a significant decision in relation to a data subject be take base on automate processing . amendment 225 , page 19 , line 18 , at end insert — " ( aa ) require the controller to inform the datum subject when a decision describe in paragraph 1 have be take in relation to the data subject ; " . amendment 221 , page 20 , line 3 , at end insert — " 7 . when exercise the power to make regulation under this article , the Secretary of State must have regard to the follow statement of principle : digital information principle at work 1 . People should have access to a fair , inclusive and trustworthy digital environment at work . 2 . algorithmic system should be design and use to achieve well outcome : to make work well , not bad , and not for surveillance . worker and their representative should be involve in this process . 3 . People should be protect from unsafe , unaccountable and ineffective algorithmic system at work . impact on individual and group must be assess in advance and monitor , with reasonable and proportionate step take . 4 . algorithmic system should not harm worker ' mental or physical health , or integrity . 5 . worker and their representative should always know when an algorithmic system be be use , how and why it be be use , and what impact it may have on they or their work . 6 . worker and their representative should be involve in meaningful consultation before and during use of an algorithmic system that may significantly impact work or people . 7 . worker should have control over their own datum and digital information collect about they at work . 8 . worker and their representative should always have an opportunity for human contact , review and redress when an algorithmic system be use at work where it may significantly impact work or people . this include a right to a write explanation when a decision be make . 9 . worker and their representative should be able to use their datum and digital technology for contact and association to improve work quality and condition . 10 . worker should be support to build the information , literacy and skill need to fulfil their capability through work transition . " this amendment would insert into new Article 22d of the UK GDPR a requirement for the Secretary of State to have regard to the statement of digital information principle at work when make regulation about automated decision - making . amendment 4 , in clause 15 , page 25 , line 4 , at end insert " ( include in the case specify in sub - paragraph ( a ) to ( c ) of paragraph 3 of article 35 ) " . this amendment , together with Amendment 1 , would provide a definition of what constitute " high risk processing " for the purpose of apply Articles 27a , 27b and 27c , which require data controller to designate , and specify the duty of , a " senior responsible individual " with responsibility for such processing . government amendment 18 to 44 . amendment 12 , in page 32 , line 7 , leave out clause 17 . this amendment keep the current requirement on police in the Data Protection Act 2018 to justify why they have access an individual ' s personal datum . amendment 1 , in clause 18 , page 32 , line 18 , leave out paragraph ( c ) and insert — " ( c ) omit paragraph 2 , ( can ) in paragraph 3 — ( i ) for " datum protection " substitute " high risk processing " , ( ii ) in sub - paragraph ( a ) , for " natural person " substitute " individual " , ( iii ) in sub - paragraph ( a ) for " natural person " substitute " individual " in both place where it occur , ( cb ) omit paragraph 4 and 5 , " . this amendment would leave paragraph 3 of article 35 of the UK GDPR in place ( with amendment reflect amendment make by the Bill elsewhere in the article ) , thereby ensure that there be a definition of " high risk processing " on the face of the Regulation . amendment 226 , page 39 , line 38 , leave out clause 26 . amendment 227 , page 43 , line 2 , leave out clause 27 . Amendment 228 , page 46 , line 32 , leave out clause 28 . government amendment 45 . Amendment 235 , page 57 , line 29 , leave out clause 34 . this amendment would leave in place the exist regime , which refer to " manifestly unfounded " or excessive request to the Information Commissioner , rather than the propose change to " vexatious " or excessive request . government amendment 46 and 47 . amendment 237 , in clause 48 , page 77 , line 4 , leave out " individual " and insert " person " . this amendment and Amendments 238 to 240 be intend to enable the digital verification service cover by the Bill to include verification of organisation as well as individual . amendment 238 , page 77 , line 5 , leave out " individual " and insert " person " . see explanatory statement to Amendment 237 . amendment 239 , page 77 , line 6 , leave out " individual " and insert " person " . see explanatory statement to Amendment 237 . amendment 240 , page 77 , line 7 , leave out " individual " and insert " person " . see explanatory statement to Amendment 237 . Amendment 241 , page 77 , line 8 , at end insert ( on new line ) — " and the fact which may be so ascertained , verify or confirm may include the fact that an individual have a claim connection with a legal person . " this amendment would ensure that the verification service cover by the Bill will include verification that an individual have a claim connection with a legal person . government amendment 48 to 50 . amendment 280 , in clause 49 , page 77 , line 13 , at end insert — " ( 2A ) the DVS trust framework must include a description of how the provision of digital verification service be expect to uphold the Identity Assurance Principles . ( 2b ) schedule ( Identity Assurance Principles ) describe each Identity Assurance Principle and its effect . " amendment 281 , page 77 , line 13 , at end insert — " ( 2A ) the DVS trust framework must allow valid attribute to be protect by zero - knowledge proof and other decentralised technology , without restriction upon how and by whom those proof may be hold or process . " government amendment 51 to 66 . amendment 248 , in clause 52 , page 79 , line 7 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) a determination under subsection ( 1 ) may specify an amount which be tiere to the size of the person and its role as specify in the DVS trust framework . " this amendment would enable fee for application for registration in the dvs register to be determine on the basis of the size and role of the organisation apply to be register . amendment 243 , page 79 , line 8 , after " may " , insert " not " . this amendment would provide that the fee for application for registration in the dvs register could not exceed the administrative cost of determine the application . government amendment 67 . amendment 244 , page 79 , line 13 , after " may " , insert " not " . this amendment would provide that the fee for continue registration in the dvs register could not exceed the administrative cost of that registration . government amendment 68 . Amendment 245 , page 79 , line 21 , at end insert — " ( 10 ) the fee payable under this section must be review every two year by the National Audit Office . " this amendment would provide that the fee payable for dvs registration must be review every two year by the NAO . government amendment 69 to 77 . amendment 247 , in clause 54 , page 80 , line 38 , after " person " , insert " or by other party " . this amendment would enable other , for example independent expert , to make representation about a decision to remove a person from the dvs register , as well as the person themselves . amendment 246 , page 81 , line 7 , at end insert — " ( 11 ) the Secretary of State may not exercise the power grant by subsection ( 1 ) until the Secretary of State have consult on proposal for how a decision to remove a person from the DVS register will be reach , include — ( a ) how information will be collect from person impact by a decision to remove the person from the register , and from other ; ( b ) how complaint will be manage ; ( c ) how evidence will be review ; ( d ) what the burden of proof will be on which a decision will be base . " this amendment would provide that the power to remove a person from the DVS register could not be exercise until the Secretary of State have consult on the detail of how a decision to remove would be reach . government amendment 78 to 80 . amendment 249 , in clause 62 , page 86 , line 17 , at end insert — " ( 3A ) a notice under this section must give the recipient of the notice an opportunity to consult the Secretary of State on the content of the notice before provide the information require by the notice . " this amendment would provide an option for consultation between the Secretary of State and the recipient of an information notice before the information require by the notice have to be provide . government amendment 81 . amendment 242 , in clause 63 , page 87 , line 21 , leave out " may " and insert " must " . this amendment would require the Secretary of State to make arrangement for a person to exercise the Secretary of State ' s function under this Part of the Bill , so that an independent regulator would perform the relevant function and not the Secretary of State . amendment 250 , in clause 64 , page 87 , line 34 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) a report under subsection ( 1 ) must include a report on any arrangement make under section 63 for a third party to exercise function under this Part . " this amendment would require information about arrangement for a third party to exercise function under this Part of the Bill to be include in the annual report on the operation of the Part . government amendment 82 to 196 . amendment 6 , in clause 83 , page 107 , leave out from line 26 to the end of line 34 on page 108 . this amendment would leave out the propose new regulation 6b of the PEC Regulations , which would enable consent to be give , or an objection to be make , to cookie automatically . amendment 217 , page 109 , line 20 , leave out clause 86 . this amendment would leave out the clause which would enable the sending of direct marketing electronic mail on a " soft opt - in " basis . amendment 218 , page 110 , line 1 , leave out clause 87 . this amendment would remove the clause which would enable direct marketing for the purpose of democratic engagement . see also Amendment 220 . government amendment 253 to 255 . amendment 219 , page 111 , line 6 , leave out clause 88 . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 218 . government amendment 256 to 265 . amendment 7 , in clause 89 , page 114 , line 12 , at end insert — " ( 2A ) a provider of a public electronic communication service or network be not require to intercept or examine the content of any communication in order to comply with their duty under this regulation . " this amendment would clarify that a public electronic communication service or network be not require to intercept or examine the content of any communication in order to comply with their duty to notify the Commissioner of unlawful direct marketing . amendment 8 , page 117 , line 3 , at end insert — " ( 5 ) in regulation 1 — ( a ) at the start , insert " ( 1 ) " ; ( b ) after " shall " , insert " save for regulation 26a " ; ( c ) at end , insert — " ( 2 ) regulation 26a come into force six month after the Commissioner have publish guidance under regulation 26c ( Guidance in relation to regulation 26a ) . " " this amendment would provide for the new regulation 26a , Duty to notify Commissioner of unlawful direct marketing , not to come into force until six month after the Commissioner have publish guidance in relation to that duty . government amendment 197 . amendment 251 , in clause 101 , page 127 , line 3 , leave out " and death " and insert " , death and deed poll " . this amendment would require deed poll information to be keep to the same standard as record of birth and death . amendment 9 , page 127 , line 24 , at end insert — " ( 2A ) after section 25 , insert — " 25a Review of form in which register be to be keep ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must commission a review of the provision of this Act and of related legislation , with a view to the creation of a single digital register of birth and death . ( 2 ) the review must consider and make recommendation on the effect of the creation of a single digital register on — ( a ) fraud , ( b ) data collection , and ( c ) ease of registration . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State must lay a report of the review before each House of Parliament within six month of this section come into force . " " this amendment would insert a new section into the Births and Deaths Registration Act 1953 require a review of relevant legislation , with consideration of create a single digital register for register birth and register death and recommendation on the effect of such a change on reduce fraud , improve data collection and streamline digital registration . government amendment 198 . amendment 229 , in clause 112 , page 135 , line 8 , leave out subsection ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) . amendment 10 , in clause 113 , page 136 , line 35 , leave out " which allow or confirm the unique identification of that individual " . this amendment would amend the definition of " biometric datum " for the purpose of the oversight of law enforcement biometric database so as to extend the protection currently in place for biometric datum for identification to include biometric datum for the purpose of classification . government amendment 199 to 207 . government new schedule 1 — power to require information for social security purpose . government new schedule 2 — National Underground Asset Register : monetary penalty . new schedule 3 — Identity Assurance Principles — " Part 1 - definition 1 these principle be limit to the processing of Identity Assurance Data ( IdA Data ) in an Identity Assurance Service ( e . g . establish and verify identity of a Service User ; conduct a transaction that use a user identity ; maintain audit requirement in relation a transaction associate with the use of a service that need identity verification etc . ) . they do not cover , for example , any datum use to deliver a service , or to measure its quality . 2 in the context of the application of the Identity Assurance Principles to an Identity Assurance Service , " Identity Assurance Data " ( " IdA Data " ) mean any record information that be connect with a " Service User " include — " Audit Data . " this include any record information that be connect with any log or audit associate with an Identity Assurance Service . " General Data . " this mean any other record information which be not personal datum , audit datum or relationship datum , but be still connect with a " Service User " . " Personal Data . " this take its meaning from the Data Protection Act 2018 or subsequent legislation ( e . g . any recorded information that relate to a " Service User " who be also an identified or identifiable live individual ) . " Relationship Data . " this mean any record information that describe ( or infer ) a relationship between a " Service User " , " Identity Provider " or " Service Provider " with another " Service User " , " Identity Provider " or " Service Provider " and include any cookie or program whose purpose be to supply a means through which relationship datum be collect . 3 other term use in relation to the Principles be define as follow — " save - line2Identity Assurance Service . " this include relevant application of the technology ( e . g . hardware , software , database , documentation ) in the possession or control of any " Service User " , " Identity Provider " or " Service Provider " that be use to facilitate identity assurance activity ; it also include any ida datum process by that technology or by an Identity Provider or by a Service Provider in the context of the Service ; and any ida Data process by the underlie infrastructure for the purpose of deliver the ida service or associate billing , management , audit and fraud prevention . " Identity Provider . " this mean the certify individual or certify organisation that provide an Identity Assurance Service ( e . g . establish an identity , verification of identity ) ; it include any agent of a certify Identity Provider that process ida datum in connection with that Identity Assurance Service . " Participant . " this mean any " Identity Provider " , " Service Provider " or " Service User " in an Identity Assurance Service . a " Participant " include any agent by definition . " process . " in the context of ida datum mean " collect , use , disclose , retain , transmit , copy , compare , corroborate , correlate , aggregate , access " the datum and include any other operation perform on ida datum . " Provider . " include both " Identity Provider " and / or " Service Provider " . " Service Provider . " this mean the certify individual or certify organisation that provide a service that use an Identity Provider in order to verify identity of the Service User ; it include any agent of the Service Provider that process ida datum from an Identity Assurance Service . " Service User . " this mean the person ( I . e . an organisation ( incorporate or not ) ) or an individual ( dead or alive ) who have establish ( or be establish ) an identity with an Identity Provider ; it include an agent ( e . g . a solicitor , family member ) who act on behalf of a Service User with proper authority ( e . g . a public guardian , or a Director of a company , or someone who possess power of attorney ) . the person may be live or decease ( the identity may still need to be use once its owner be dead , for example by an executor ) . " Third Party . " this mean any person ( I . e . any organisation or individual ) who be not a " Participant " ( e . g . the police or a regulator ) . part 2 - the Nine Identity Assurance principle any exemption from these principle must be specify via the " Exceptional Circumstances Principle " . ( see Principle 9 ) . 1 User Control Principle Statement of Principle : " I can exercise control over identity assurance activity affect I and these can only take place if I consent or approve they . " 1 . 1 an Identity Provider or Service Provider must ensure any collection , use or disclosure of ida datum in , or from , an Identity Assurance Service be approve by each particular Service User who be connect with the ida datum . 1 . 2 there should be no compulsion to use the Identity Assurance Service and Service Providers should offer alternative mechanism to access their service . fail to do so would undermine the consensual nature of the service . 2 Transparency Principle Statement of Principle : " identity assurance can only take place in way I understand and when I be fully inform . " 2 . 1 each Identity Provider or Service Provider must be able to justify to Service Users why their ida datum be process . ensure transparency of activity and effective oversight through auditing and other activity inspire public trust and confidence in how their detail be use . 2 . 2 each Service User must be offer a clear description about the processing of ida datum in advance of any processing . Identity Providers must be transparent with user about their particular model for service provision . 2 . 3 the information provide include a clear explanation of why any specific information have to be provide by the Service User ( e . g . in order that a particular level of identity assurance can be obtain ) and identify any obligation on the part of the Service User ( e . g . in relation to the User ' s role in secure his / her own identity information ) . 2 . 4 the Service User will be able to identify which Service Provider they be use at any give time . 2 . 5 any subsequent and significant change to the processing arrangement that have be previously describe to a Service User require the prior consent or approval of that Service User before it come into effect . 2 . 6 all procedure , include those involve with security , should be make publicly available at the appropriate time , unless such transparency present a security or privacy risk . for example , the standard of encryption can be identify without jeopardy to the encryption key be use . 3 Multiplicity Principle Statement of Principle : " I can use and choose as many different identifier or identity provider as I want to . " 3 . 1 a Service User be free to use any number of identifier that each uniquely identify the individual or business concern . 3 . 2 a Service User can use any of his identity establish with an Identity Provider with any Service Provider . 3 . 3 a Service User shall not be oblige to use any Identity Provider or Service Provider not choose by that Service User ; however , a Service Provider can require the Service User to provide a specific level of Identity Assurance , appropriate to the Service User ' s request to a Service Provider . 3 . 4 a Service User can choose any number of Identity Providers and where possible can choose between Service Providers in order to meet his or her diverse need . where a Service User choose to register with more than one Identity Provider , Identity Providers and Service Providers must not link the Service User ' s different account or gain information about their use of other Providers . 3 . 5 a Service User can terminate , suspend or change Identity Provider and where possible can choose between Service Providers at any time . 3 . 6 a Service Provider do not know the identity of the Identity Provider use by a Service User to verify an identity in relation to a specific service . the Service Provider know that the Identity Provider can be trust because the Identity Provider have be certify , as set out in GPG43 – Requirements for Secure Delivery of Online Public Services ( rsdops ) . 4 Data Minimisation Principle Statement of Principle : " my interaction only use the minimum datum necessary to meet my need . " 4 . 1 Identity Assurance should only be use where a need have be establish and only to the appropriate minimum level of assurance . 4 . 2 Identity Assurance datum process by an Identity Provider or a Service Provider to facilitate a request of a Service User must be the minimum necessary in order to fulfil that request in a secure and auditable manner . 4 . 3 when a Service User stop use a particular Identity Provider , their datum should be delete . datum should be retain only where require for specific target fraud , security or other criminal investigation purpose . 5 Data Quality Principle Statement of Principle : " my interaction only use the minimum datum necessary to meet my need . " 5 . 1 Service Providers should enable Service Users ( or authorise person , such as the holder of a Power of Attorney ) to be able to update their own personal datum , at a time at their choosing , free of charge and in a simple and easy manner . 5 . 2 Identity Providers and Service Providers must take account of the appropriate level of identity assurance require before allow any updating of personal datum . 6 Service User Access and Portability Principle Statement of Principle : " I have to be provide with copy of all of my datum on request ; I can move / remove my datum whenever I want . " 6 . 1 each Identity Provider or Service Provider must allow , promptly , on request and free of charge , each Service User access to any ida datum that relate to that Service User . 6 . 2 it shall be unlawful to make it a condition of do anything in relation to a Service User to request or require that Service User to request ida datum . 6 . 3 the Service User must be able to require an Identity Provider to transfer his personal datum , to a second Identity Provider in a standard electronic format , free of charge and without impediment or delay . 7 Certification Principle Statement of Principle : " I can have confidence in the Identity Assurance Service because all the participant have to be certify against common governance requirement . " 7 . 1 as a baseline control , all Identity Providers and Service Providers will be certify against a share standard . this be one important way of build trust and confidence in the service . 7 . 2 as part of the certification process , Identity Providers and Service Providers be oblige to co - operate with the independent Third Party and accept their impartial determination and to ensure that contractual arrangement — • reinforce the application of the Identity Assurance Principles • contain a reference to the independent Third Party as a mechanism for dispute resolution . 7 . 3 in the context of personal datum , certification procedure include the use of Privacy Impact Assessments , Security risk assessment , Privacy by Design concept and , in the context of information security , a commitment to use appropriate technical measure ( e . g . encryption ) and ever improve security management . wherever possible , such certification process and security procedure reliant on technical device should be make publicly available at the appropriate time . 7 . 4 all Identity Providers and Service Providers will take all reasonable step to ensure that a Third Party can not capture ida datum that confirm ( or infer ) the existence of relationship between any Participant . no relationship between party or record should be establish without the consent of the Service User . 7 . 5 Certification can be revoke if there be significant non - compliance with any Identity Assurance Principle . 8 Dispute Resolution Principle Statement of Principle : " if I have a dispute , I can go to an independent Third Party for a resolution . " 8 . 1 a Service User who , after a reasonable time , can not , or be unable , to resolve a complaint or problem directly with an Identity Provider or Service Provider can call upon an independent Third Party to seek resolution of the issue . this could happen for example where there be a disagreement between the Service User and the Identity Provider about the accuracy of datum . 8 . 2 the independent Third Party can resolve the same or similar complaint affect a group of Service Users . 8 . 3 the independent Third Party can co - operate with other regulator in order to resolve problem and can raise relevant issue of importance concern the Identity Assurance Service . 8 . 4 an adjudication / recommendation of the independent Third Party should be publish . the independent Third Party must operate transparently , but detailed case history should only be publish subject to appropriate review and consent . 8 . 5 there can be more than one independent Third Party . 8 . 6 the independent Third Party can recommend change to standard or certification procedure or that an Identity Provider or Service Provider should lose their certification . 9 Exceptional Circumstances Principle Statement of Principle : " any exception have to be approve by Parliament and be subject to independent scrutiny . " 9 . 1 any exemption from the application of any of the above Principles to ida datum shall only be lawful if it be link to a statutory framework that legitimise all Identity Assurance Services , or an Identity Assurance Service in the context of a specific service . in the absence of such a legal framework then alternative measure must be take to ensure , transparency , scrutiny and accountability for any exception . 9 . 2 any exemption from the application of any of the above Principles that relate to the processing of personal datum must also be necessary and justifiable in term of one of the criterion in Article 8 ( 2 ) of the European Convention of Human Rights : namely in the interest of national security ; public safety or the economic well - being of the country ; for the prevention of disorder or crime ; for the protection of health or moral , or for the protection of the right and freedom of other . 9 . 3 any subsequent processing of personal datum by any Third Party who have obtain such datum in exceptional circumstance ( as identify by Article 8 ( 2 ) above ) must be the minimum necessary to achieve that ( or another ) exceptional circumstance . 9 . 4 any exceptional circumstance involve the processing of personal datum must be subject to a Privacy Impact Assessment by all relevant " data controller " ( where " datum controller " take its meaning from the Data Protection Act ) . 9 . 5 any exemption from the application of any of the above Principles in relation to ida datum shall remain subject to the Dispute Resolution Principle . " amendment 220 , in schedule 1 , page 141 , leave out from line 21 to the end of line 36 on page 144 . this amendment would remove from the new Annex 1 of the UK GDPR provision which would enable direct marketing for the purpose of democratic engagement . see also Amendment 218 . government amendment 266 to 277 . government amendment 208 to 211 . amendment 15 , in schedule 5 , page 154 , line 2 , at end insert — " ( g ) the view of the Information Commission on suitability of international transfer of datum to the country or organisation . " this amendment require the Secretary of State to seek the view of the Information Commission on whether a country or organisation have meet the data protection test for international data transfer . amendment 14 , page 154 , line 25 , at end insert — " 5 . in relation to special category datum , the Information Commissioner must assess whether the data protection test be meet for datum transfer to a third country or international organisation . " this amendment require the Information Commission to assess suitability for international transfer of special category datum to a third country or international organisation . amendment 13 , page 154 , line 30 , leave out " ongoing " and insert " annual " . this amendment mandate that a country ' s suitability for international transfer of datum be monitor on an annual basis . amendment 16 , in schedule 6 , page 162 , line 36 , at end insert — " ( g ) the view of the Information Commission on suitability of international transfer of datum to the country or organisation . " this amendment require the Secretary of State to seek the view of the Information Commission on whether a country or organisation have meet the data protection test for international data transfer in relation to law enforcement processing . government amendment 212 . amendment 231 , in schedule 13 , page 202 , line 33 , at end insert — " ( 2A ) a person may not be appoint under sub - paragraph ( 2 ) unless the Science , Innovation and Technology Committee of the House of Commons have endorse the propose appointment . " this amendment would ensure that non - executive member of the Information Commission may not be appoint unless the Science , Innovation and Technology Committee have endorse the Secretary of State ' s propose appointee . government amendment 213 to 216 . the current one - size - fit - all , top - down approach to data protection that we inherit from the European Union have lead to public confusion , which have impede the effective use of personal datum to drive growth and competition , and to support key innovation . the Bill seize on a post - Brexit opportunity to build on our exist foundation and create an innovative , flexible and risk - base datum protection regime . this bespoke model will unlock the immense possibility of datum use to improve the life of everyone in the UK , and help make the UK the most innovative society in the world through science and technology . I want to make it absolutely clear that the Bill will continue to maintain the high standard of datum protection that the british people rightly expect , but it will also help those who use our datum to make our life healthy , safe and more prosperous . that be because we have convene industry leader and expert to co - design the Bill at every step of the way . we have hold numerous roundtable with both industry expert in the field and campaign group . the outcome , I believe , be that the legislation will ensure our regulation reflect the way real people live their life and run their business . I be grateful to the Minister for give way so early . Oxford West and Abingdon have a huge number of spin - off and scientific business that have express concern that any material deviation on standard , particularly European Union datum adequacy , would entangle they in more red tape , rather than remove it . he say he have speak to industry leader . have he and his Department assess the risk of any deviation ? be there any associated cost to business from any potential deviation ? who be go to bear that cost ? I share the hon . Lady ' s appreciation of the importance of datum adequacy with the European Union . it be not the case that we have to replicate every aspect of GDPR to be assess as adequate by the European Union for the purpose of datum exchange . indeed , a number of other country have datum adequacy , even though they do not have precisely the same framework of data protection legislation . in draw up the measure in the Bill , we have be very clear that we do not wish to put data adequacy at risk , and we be confident that nothing in the Bill do so . that be not only my view ; it be the view of the expert witness who give evidence in Committee . it be also the view of the Information Commissioner , who have be closely involve in all the measure before we today . I recognise the concern , but I do not believe it have any ground . the Minister say , " we do not wish " . be that a guarantee from the Dispatch Box that there will be absolutely no deviation that cause a material difference for business on EU datum adequacy ? can he give that guarantee ? I can guarantee that there be nothing in the Government ' s proposal that we believe put data adequacy at risk . that be not just our view ; it be the view of all those we have consult , include the Information Commissioner . he be previously the information commissioner in New Zealand , which have its own data protection law but be , nevertheless , recognise as adequate by the EU . he be very familiar with the process require to achieve and keep datum adequacy , and it be his view , as well as our , that the Bill achieve that objective . we believe the Government amendment will strengthen the fundamental element of the Bill and reflect the Government ' s commitment to unleash the power of datum across our economy and society . I have already thank all the external stakeholder who have work with we to ensure that the Bill function at its good . take together , we believe these amendment will benefit the economy by £ 10 . 6 billion over the next 10 year . that be more than double the estimate impact of the Bill when it be introduce in the spring . will the Minister confirm that no service will rely on digital identity check ? I will come on to that , because we have table a few amendment on digital verification and the accreditation of digital identity . we be propose a voluntary framework . we believe that use digital identity have many advantage , and those will become great as the technology improve , but there be no compulsory or mandatory element to the use of digital identity . I understand why the hon . Lady raise that point , and I be happy to give she that assurance . before my right hon . friend move on to the specific of the Government amendment , may I ask he about something they do not yet cover ? the Bill do not address the availability of datum to researcher so that they can assist in the process of , for example , identify pattern in online safety . he will know that there be considerable discussion of this during the passage of the Online Safety Act 2023 , when a succession of Ministers say that we might return to the subject in this Bill . will he update the House on how that be go ? when might we expect to see amendment to deal with this important area ? it be true that we do not have Government amendment to that effect , but it be a central part of the Bill that we have already debate in Committee . make datum more available to researcher be , indeed , an objective of the Bill , and I share my right hon . and learn Friend ' s view that it will produce great value . if he think more need to be do in specific area , I would be very happy to talk to he far or to respond in writing . there be quite a number of technical amendment , as the hon . member for Rhondda ( Sir Chris Bryant ) observe . I will start with the UK - US datum access agreement , which permit telecommunication operator in the UK to share information about serious crime with law enforcement agency in the US , and vice versa . government new clause 6 make it clear that the UK - US datum access agreement , and other specify international treaty , can provide a basis for processing under several ground in the UK GDPR . this agreement have be operational since October 2022 , and disclosure make under it be not prevent by the current data protection legislation . however , the measure contain in the new clause will make it absolutely clear to telecom operator in the UK that the data access agreement provide an appropriate legal basis for process personal datum , special category datum and criminal offence datum under the relevant provision in the UK GDPR . we have also table an amendment to ensure that , follow the loss of the EU general principle of proportionality at the end of 2023 as a result of the Retained EU Law ( Revocation and Reform ) Act 2023 , controller continue to need only to carry out a reasonable and proportionate search for information when respond to a subject access request . while controller should make the good possible effort to locate all the information request by a data subject , there be occasion when this might be unreasonable or disproportionate , such as when the information be of low importance or of low relevance to the data subject . in those circumstance , it be important to continue to allow controller to limit the effort they make when search for information , and this position reflect exist domestic case law . the amendment simply provide great legal certainty for controller . turn to the Information Commissioner ' s Office code of practice , we have listen to concern about the perceive impact of the approval power on the independence of regulator , so we be amend the Bill to remove the veto power on the content of ICO statutory code of practice . it be previously propose that the power should be hold by the Secretary of State . [ interruption . ] I welcome the expression of enthusiasm for this amendment from the hon . member for Rhondda . this amendment balance regulatory independence with democratic accountability and reaffirm the Government ' s commitment to the independence of our regulatory framework , and it be support by the ICO . the amendment introduce a new process for the approval of ICO statutory code of practice , and it provide that the Information Commissioner must consider recommendation from the Secretary of State about a code of practice prior to the code be lay before Parliament . critically , the Information Commissioner will not be bind by the Secretary of State ' s recommendation . we be also introduce an amendment to clarify the way in which the ICO can serve notice , and to remove the outdated requirement for the ICO to obtain consent before serve notice by email . this amendment will enable the ICO to enforce the UK ' s datum protection regime more effectively , particularly against overseas business , and it mirror the arrangement that a number of other regulator already have . although most data controller do the right thing and respond to subject access request in a satisfactory way , some dispute end up in court , so we have table an amendment that will enable a court to require information from a controller to assess whether it should have be provide as part of the original response , while ensure that the information be not disclose to the claimant until it have be determine whether or not they be entitle to it . the hon . member for Brent Central ( Dawn Butler ) mention the digital identity verification scheme in part 2 . the UK digital identity and attribute trust framework set out baseline rule that organisation must follow to become a government - approve digital verification service provider . however , in some case where people may choose to use digital identity product , such as when apply for a mortgage or complete pre - employment check , digital verification service provider may need to follow rule in addition to those within the trust framework in order to meet sector - specific requirement . our amendment enable additional rule , which be describe as " supplementary code " in the Bill , to be approve by the Government , against condition set out in the trust framework . organisation will be able to prove that the digital verification service they offer be certify against supplementary code , as well as the trust framework , by have a note include in the digital verification service register . let I turn to one or two example , cover both the right - to - rent and right - to - work check . it be essential that the employment and private rental sector be provide with robust and secure process to ensure that the identity check part of their onboarding process be secure , efficient and effective . the Home Office will use the amend part 2 power I have just explain to make secondary legislation that mean that when an employer or landlord be use the service of a digital verification service provider , they do so from the register of digital verification service provider establish under part 2 of the Bill . that do not change the already establish process available to employer and landlord . in fact , 41 provider have already be certify to perform digital right - to - work and right - to - rent check , in line with the exist version of the UK digital identity and attribute trust framework , to which I have refer . the amendment will provide confidence and security to employer and landlord that the service provider they be use be certify . our ongoing engagement with the sector tell we that the use of digital identity service provider be a welcome development , as it represent a more cost - effective practice than manual check of physical document . provider of public electronic communication service , such as company that provide a mobile phone contract , be currently require to report all personal datum breach to the Information Commissioner within 24 hour . our amendment ease burden on industry by give more time for those datum controller to report data breach ; they will now have to be report without undue delay and , where feasible , no later than 72 hour after the breach . this change will allow organisation to gather more detailed information about the breach before the reporting deadline and allow the ICO to focus its effort on assess that information once it have be achieve . on disclosure for the purpose of archive in the public interest , the Government recognise the importance of archive in permanently preserve Britain ' s rich history for long - term social benefit . we also know that archivist currently have very little agency to dictate what lawful ground be use when obtain personal datum from a wide range of source . we be therefore amend the Bill to ensure that a controller be able to reuse personal datum for the purpose of archive in the public interest , regardless of the lawful ground the personal datum be originally collect on . that will be particularly helpful for archivist that be not public authority and be therefore unable to use a public task lawful ground for their processing . we have work closely with the National Archives in bring forward our amendment . I come to the issue of foreign conviction , particularly those relate to counter - terrorism policing . we intend to amend the Bill to ensure that counter - terrorism policing can continue to protect british citizen by retain biometric receive from international partner in a more efficient way . currently , the police can hold biometric indefinitely for people who have a conviction for shoplift in the UK but not for convict terrorist abroad . our amendment that will enable the indefinite retention of an individual ' s fingerprint and dna profile for national security purpose where that person have a foreign conviction that be equivalent to a conviction in England , Wales or Northern Ireland . counter - terrorism policing can retain those biometric without the need to apply for a national security determination . our amendment bring the Counter - Terrorism Act 2008 into alignment with other legislation govern biometric retention . we be make change to the way that counter - terrorism policing can retain biometric share via interpol . it will now be able to retain biometric datum in national security - relate case for as long as the relevant interpol notice remain in force , rather than need to submit a national security determination , which can present significant operational challenge for counter - terrorism policing . that will bring the UK into line with the rule under which all Interpol member retain and use those same biometric . our amendment be request and be welcome by counter - terrorism policing , the independent reviewer of terrorism legislation , the Office of the Biometrics Commissioner and the security service , and I thank they for their co - operation on this aspect of the Bill . broadly speak , we support this measure . what negotiation and discussion have the Minister have about red notice under Interpol and the abuse of they , for instance by the russian state ? we have concern about decent people be maltreat by the russian state through the use of red notice . be those concern conflict by the measure that the Government be introduce ? as the hon . Gentleman know , I strongly share his view about the need to act against abuse of legal procedure by the russian state . as he will appreciate , this aspect of the Bill emanate from the Home Office . however , I have no doubt that my colleague in the Home Office will have hear the perfectly valid point he make . I hope that they will be able to provide he with further information about it , and I will draw the matter to their attention . I wish to say just a few more word about the biometric material receive from our international partner , as a tool in protect the public from harm . sometimes , counter - terrorism police receive biometric from international partner with identifiable information . under current law , they be not allow to retain these biometric unless they be take in the past three year . that can make it hard for our counter - terrorism police to carry out their job effectively . that be why we be make change to allow the police to take proactive step to pseudonymise biometric datum receive from international partner — obviously , that mean hold the material without include information that identify the person — and hold indefinitely under exist provision in the Counter - Terrorism Act information that identify the person it relate to . again , those change have be request by counter - terrorism police and will support they to well protect the british public . the national underground asset register , or nuar , be a digital map that will improve both the efficiency and safety of underground work , by provide secure access to privately and publicly own location datum about the pipe and cable beneath our foot . this will underpin the Government ' s priority to get the economy grow by expedite project such as new road , new house and broadband roll - out — the hon . Gentleman and I also share a considerable interest in that . the nuar will bring together valuable datum from more than 700 public and private sector organisation about the location of underground utility asset . this will deliver £ 490 million per year of economic growth , through increase efficiency , reduce asset strike and reduce disruption for citizen and business . once operational , the running of the register will be fund by those who benefit most . the Government ' s amendment include power to , through regulation , levy charge on apparatus owner and request relevant information . the introduction of reasonable charge payable by those who benefit from the service , rather than the taxpayer , will ensure that the nuar be a sustainable service for the future . other amendment will ensure that there be the ability to realise the full potential of this datum for other high - value use , while respect the right of asset owner . be any consideration give to the fact that that information could be use by bad actor ? if people be able to find out where particular cable or pipe be , they also have the ability to find weakness in the system , which could have implication for we all . I understand the hon . Lady ' s point . there would need to be a legitimate purpose for access such information and I be happy to supply she with further detail about precisely how that work . the hon . Lady intervene at an appropriate point , because I be about to say that the provision will allow the National Underground Asset Register service to operate in England and Wales . we intend to bring forward equivalent provision as the Bill progress in the other House , subject to the usual agreement , to allow the service to operate in Northern Ireland , but the Scottish Road Works Commissioner currently maintain its own register . it have help we in the development of the nuar , so the hon . Lady may like to talk to the Scottish Road Works Commissioner on that point . I turn to the use of datum for the purpose of democratic engagement , which be an issue of considerable interest to member of the House . the Bill include provision to facilitate the responsible use of personal datum by elect representative , register political party and other for the purpose of " democratic engagement " . we have table further relate amendment for consideration today , include add a full definition of what constitute " democratic engagement activity " to help the reader understand that term wherever it appear in the legislation . the amendment provide for former mp to continue to process personal datum follow a successful recall petition , to enable they to complete urgent casework or hand over casework to a successor , as they do follow the Dissolution of Parliament . for consistency , related amendment be make to the definition use in provision relate to direct marketing for the purpose of democratic engagement . finally , hon . member may be aware that the Data Protection Act 2018 currently permit register political party to process sensitive political opinion datum without consent for the purpose of their political activity . the exemption do not however currently apply to elect representative , candidate , recall petitioner and permit participant in referendum . the amendment address that anomaly and allow those individual to benefit from the same exemption as register political party . be the Minister prepare to look at how the proposal in the Bill and the amendment align with relevant legislation pass in the Scottish Government ? a number of framework Bills to govern the operation of potential future referendum on a variety of subject have be pass , particularly the Referendums ( Scotland ) Act 2020 . it be important that there be alignment with the definition use in the Bill , such as that for " a permit participant " . will he commit to look at that and , if necessary , make change to the Bill at a later stage in its progress , in discussion with the Scottish Government ? I be happy to look at that , as the hon . Gentleman suggest . I hope the change we be make to the Bill will provide great legal certainty for mp and other who undertake the processing of personal datum for the purpose of democratic engagement . the Bill start and end with reduce burden on business and , above all , on small business , which account for over 99 % of UK firm . in the future , organisation will need to keep record of their processing activity only when those activity be likely to result in a high risk to individual . some organisation have query whether that mean they will have to keep record in relation to all their activity if only some of their processing activity be high risk . that be not the Government ' s intention . to maximise the benefit to business and other organisation , the amendment make it absolutely clear that organisation have to keep record only in relation to their high - risk processing activity . the Online Safety Act 2023 take crucial step to shield our child , and it be also important that we support grieve family who be seek answer after tragic event where a child have take their own life , by remove obstacle to access social medium information that could be relevant to the coroner ' s investigation . we welcome such measure , but be the Minister aware of the case of Breck Bednar , who be groom and then murder ? his family be campaign not just for new clause 35 but for measure that go far . in that case , the coroner would have want access to Breck ' s online life but , as it currently stand , new clause 35 do not provide what the family need without a change to widen the scope of the amendment to the Online Safety Act . will the Minister look at that ? I think it will just require a tweak in some of the wording . I understand the concern of the hon . Lady . we want to do all that we can to support the bereaved parent of child who have lose their life . as it stand , the amendment will require Ofcom , follow notification from a coroner , to issue information notice to specify provider of online service , require they to hold datum they may have relate to a deceased child ' s use of online service , in circumstance where the coroner suspect the child have take their own life , which could later be require by a coroner as relevant to an inquest . we will continue to work with bereaved family and member of the other place who have raise concern . during the passage of the Online Safety Act , my noble colleague Lord Parkinson of Whitley Bay make it clear that we be aware of the importance of datum preservation to bereaved parent , coroner and other involve in investigation . it be very important that we get this right . I hear what the hon . Lady say and give she an assurance that we will continue to work across Government , with the Ministry of Justice and other , in ensure that we do so . the hon . member for Rhondda make reference to propose new schedule 1 , relate to improve our ability to identify and tackle fraud in the welfare system . I be grateful for the support of the Minister for Disabled People , Health and Work , my hon . friend the Member for Corby ( Tom Pursglove ) . in 2022 - 23 , the Department for Work and Pensions overpay £ 8 . 3 billion in fraud and error . a major area of loss be the under - declaration of financial asset , which we can not currently tackle through exist power . give the need to address the scale of fraud and error in the welfare system , we need to modernise and strengthen the legal framework , to allow the Department for Work and Pensions to keep pace with change and stand up to future fraud challenge . as I indicate early , the fraud plan , publish in 2022 , contain a provision outline the DWP ' s intention to bring forward new power that would boost access to datum hold by third party . the amendment will enable the DWP to access datum hold by third party at scale where the information signal potential fraud or error . that will allow the DWP to detect fraud and error more proactively and protect taxpayer ' money from fall into the hand of fraudster . my reading of the propose new schedule be that it give the Department the power to look into the bank account of people claim the state pension . be I right about that ? the purpose of the propose new schedule be narrowly focused . it will ensure that where benefit claimant may also have considerable financial asset , that be flag with the DWP for further examination , but it do not allow people to go through the content of people ' s bank account . it be an alarm system where financial institution that hold account of benefit claimant can match those against financial asset , so where it appear fraud might be take place , they can refer that to the Department . but it do include the state pension , doesn ' t it ? I be surprised that the opposition regard this as something to question . obviously , they be entitle to seek further information , but I would hope that they share the wish to identify where fraud be take place and take action against it . this be about claimant of benefit , include universal credit — pension ? the state pension will not currently be an area of focus for the use of these power . the House of Commons Library make it absolutely clear that the Bill , if take forward in the way that the Government be propose at the moment , do allow the Government to look at people in receipt of state pension . that be the case , be it not ? I can tell the hon . Gentleman that it be not the case that the DWP intend to focus on the state pension — and that be confirm by my hon . friend the Member for Corby . this be specifically about ensure that mean - relate benefit claimant be eligible for the benefit for which they be currently claim . in do that , the identification and the avoidance of fraud will save the taxpayer a considerable amount of money . I think everybody in the House understand the importance of get this right . we all want to stop fraud in the state system . that be say , this be the only time that I be aware of where the state seek the right to put people under surveillance without prior suspicion , and therefore such a power have to be restrict very carefully indeed . as we be not go to have time to debate this properly today , be my right hon . friend open to have further discussion on this issue when the Bill go to the Lords , so that we can seek further restriction ? I do not mean to undermine the effectiveness of the action ; I just want to make it more targeted . I be very grateful to my right hon . friend for his contribution , and I share his principled concern that the power of the state should be limit to those that be absolutely necessary . those who be in receipt of benefit fund by the taxpayer have an obligation to meet the term of those benefit , and this provision be one way of ensure that they do so . my hon . friend the Member for Corby have already say that he would be very happy to discuss this matter with my right hon . friend far , and I be happy to do the same if that be helpful to he . can the Minister give we an example of the circumstance in which the Department would need to look into the bank account of people claim state pension in order to tackle the fraud problem ? why be the state pension within the scope of this amendment ? all I can say to the right hon . Gentleman be that the Government have make it clear that there be no intention to focus on claimant of the state pension . that be an undertaking that have be give . I be sure that Ministers from the DWP would be happy to give further evidence to the right hon . Gentleman , who may well wish to look at this far in his Committee . finally , I wish to touch on the framework around smart datum , which be contain in part 3 of the Bill . the smart datum power will extend the Government ' s ability to introduce smart data scheme , build on the success of open banking , which be the UK ' s most develop datum sharing scheme , with more than 7 million active user . the amendment will support the Government ' s ability to meet their commitment , first , to provide open banking with a long - term regulatory framework , and , secondly , to establish an open data scheme for road fuel price . it will also more generally strengthen the toolkit available to Government to deliver future smart data scheme . the amendment ensure that the range of datum and activity essential to smart datum scheme be well capture and more accurately define . that include type of financial datum and payment activity that be integral to open banking . the amendment , as I say , be complicated and technical and therefore I will not go into further detail . rise — I will give way to my hon . friend as I know that he have take a particular interest , and be very knowledgeable , in this area . the Minister be very kind . I just want to pick up on his last point about smart datum . he be right to say that the provision be incredibly important and potentially extremely valuable to the economy . can he just clarify a couple of point ? I want to be clear on Government new clause 27 about interface body . do that apply to the kind of new data standard that will be require under smart datum ? if it do , can he please clarify how he will make sure that we do not end up with multiple different standard for each sector of our economy ? it be absolutely in everybody ' s interest that the standard be interoperable and , to the great possible extent , common between sector so that they can talk to each other ? I do have a note on interface body , which I be happy to include for the benefit of my hon . friend . however , he will be aware that this be a technical and complicated area . if he want to pursue a further discussion , I would of course be happy to oblige . I can tell he that the amendment will ensure that smart data scheme can replicate and build on the open banking model by allow the Government to require interface body to be set up by member of the scheme . interface body will play a similar role to that of the open banking implementation entity , develop common standard on arrangement for datum sharing . learn from the lesson and success of the open banking regime , regulation will be able to specify the responsibility and requirement for interface body and ensure appropriate accountability to regulator . I hope that that go some way to address the point that he make , but I would be happy to discuss it far with he in due course . I believe these amendment will generally improve the functioning of the Bill and address some specific concern that I have identify . on that basis , I commend they to the House . I call the shadow Minister . as I be feel generous , I shall start with the nice bit where we agree with the Government . first , we completely agree with the change to the Information Commissioner ' s Office , strengthen the ICO ' s enforcement power , restructure the ICO and provide a clear framework of objective . as the Minister know , we have always be keen to strengthen the independence of the ICO and we be concerned that the Government be take new interventionist power — that be quite a theme in this Bill — in clause 33 , so we welcome Government amendment 45 , which achieve a much well balance between democratic oversight and ICO independence , so we thank the Minister for that . Labour also welcome part 2 of the Bill , as amend in Committee , establish a digital verification framework . my concern , however , be that the Government have underestimate the sheer technicality of such an endeavour , hence the last - minute requirement for ten of Government amendment to this part of the Bill , which I note the Minister keep on refer to as be very technical and therefore good to be debate in another place at another time with official present . under Government amendment 52 , for example , different rule will be establish for different digital verification service , and I be not quite sure whether that will stand the test of the House of Lords . we warmly welcome and support part 3 of the Bill , which have just be refer to by the hon . member for Weston - super - Mare ( John Penrose ) and the Minister , and its provision on smart datum . indeed , we and many industry specialist have be urge the Government to go much fast in this particular area . the potential for introduce smart data scheme be vast , empower consumer to make financial decision that well suit they , enable innovation and deliver well product and service . most notably , that have already happen in relation to financial service . many people will not know that that be what they be use when they use a software that be access several different bank account , but that be what they be do . in the autumn statement , the Government pledge to kickstart a smart datum big bang . one area where smart datum have be most effective be in open finance — it be right that we expand these provision into new area to have a great social impact — but , to quote the Financial Conduct Authority , it should be implement there " in a proportionate phase manner , ideally drive by consideration of credible consumer proposition and use - case . " furthermore , the FCA do not think that a big bang approach to open finance be feasible or desirable . nevertheless , many of the Government amendment to the suite of smart datum provision be technical , and indicate a move in the right direction . in particular , we hope that , with smart datum enable great access by consumer to information about green option and net zero , we will be able to help the whole of the UK to move towards net zero . I want to say a few word on part 4 , on cookie and nuisance call . we share a lot of the Government ' s intention on tackle those issue and the birth and death register . as a former registrar , I would like to see tombstone — the process of fraudulently adopt for oneself the name of a child who have die — bring to an end . that practice be enable partly because the death register do not actually register the death of an individual name on the birth register , which I hope will at some point be possible . despite the Government ' s have sit on the Bill for almost 18 month , with extensive consultation , draft , amendment and carry - over motion , there be still big practical hole in these measure that need to be address . labour support the Government ' s ambition to tackle nuisance call , which be a blight on people ' s live — we all know that . however , I fear that clause 89 , which establish a duty to notify the ICO of unlawful direct marketing , will make little or no difference without the addition of labour amendment 7 and 8 , which would implement those obligation on electronic communication company when the guidance from the ICO on their practical application have be clearly establish . as the Bill stand , that be little more than wishful thinking . unfortunately , the story be the same on tackle cookie . we have a bunch of half - bake measure that simply do not deliver as the public will expect they to and the Government would like they to . we all support reduce cookie fatigue ; I be sure that every hon . Member happily click " accept all " whenever cookie come up — [ interruption . ] well , some member be much more assiduous than I be in that regard . but the wise Members of the House know perfectly well that the problem be that it undermine the whole purpose of cookie . we all support tackle it because click a new cookie banner every time we load a web page be a waste of everybody ' s time and be deeply annoying . however , the Government ' s propose regulation 6B give the Secretary of State a blank cheque to make provision as they see fit , without proper parliamentary scrutiny . that be why we be unhappy with it and have table amendment 6 , which would remove those power from the Bill as they be simply not ready to enter the statute book . yet again I make the point that the Bill repeatedly and regularly give new power to the Secretary of State . sure , they would be implement by secondary legislation — but as we all know , secondary legislation be unamendable and therefore subject to much less scrutiny . these be area in which the state be take significant power over the public and private individual . let I deal with some of the Labour party ' s amendment . first , I take subject access request . the Government have repeatedly be in the wrong place on those , I be afraid , ever since the introduction of the first iteration of the DPDI Bill under Nadine Dorries , when they try to charge people for access to their own datum . fortunately , that have now go the way of Nadine Dorries . [ interruption . ] I note that the Minister smile at that point . we still have concern about the Government ' s plan to change the threshold for refuse subject access request from " manifestly unfounded or excessive " to " vexatious or excessive " . the Equality and Human Rights Commission , Reset , the TUC and which ? have all outline their opposition to the change , which threaten to hollow out what the Government themselves admit be a " critical transparency mechanism " . we have table two simple amendment . amendment 2 would establish an obligation on any data controller refuse a subject access request to provide evidence of why a request have be consider vexatious or excessive . organisation should not be allow to just declare that a request be vexatious or excessive and so ascribe a motive to the data subject in order to refuse to provide their datum , perhaps simply because of the inconvenience to the organisation . the Government will try to tell I that safeguard be in place and that the datum subject can make appropriate complaint to the organisation and the ICO if they believe that their request have be wrongly refuse . but if we take the provision set out in clause 9 to extend the time limit on subject access request , add the advantage for company of dither and delay when consider procedural complaint , and then add the additional burden on a data subject of have to seek out the ICO and produce evidence and an explanation of their request as well as the alleged misapplication of the vexatious or excessive standard , we see that people could easily be wait year and year before have the right to access their own datum . I can not believe that , in the end , that be in the interest of good government or that it be really what the Government want . despite public opposition to the measure , the Government be also now go far by introduce at this stage amendment that further water down subject access request protection . government new clause 7 and 9 , which the Minister do not refer to — in fact , he only mention , I think , a bare tenth of the amendment he want we to agree this afternoon — limit a data subject ' s entitlement to their own datum to the controller ' s ability to conduct a " reasonable and proportionate " search . but what be reasonable and proportionate ? who determine what have be a reasonable and proportionate search ? the new clause drive a coach and horse through the right of people to access their own datum and to know who be do what with their information . that be why Labour do not support the change . I come to one of the most important issue for we : high - risk processing , which , as the term suggest , be of most concern when it come to the right of individual . I be pleased but perplex to see that the Government table amendment to new clause 30 that add further clarity about the change provision to record keeping for the purpose of high - risk processing . I be pleased because it be right that safeguard should be in place when datum processing be deem to be of high risk , but I be perplex because the government do not define high - risk processing in the Bill — in fact , they have remove the exist standard for high - risk processing from exist GDPR , thereby leave a legislative lacuna for the ICO to fill in . that should not be up to the ICO . I know that the ICO himself think that it should not be up to he , but a matter for primary legislation . our amendment 1 retain a statutory definition of high - risk processing as recommend by the ICO in his response to the Bill , publish in May . he say : " the detail in Article 35 ( 3 ) be a helpful and clear legislative backstop . " that be why he support what we be suggest . our amendment 4 would also clarify those individual right even far , by again provide the necessary definition of what constitute high risk , within the new provision concern the responsibility of senior responsible individual for datum processing set out in clause 15 . I turn to automate decision making , which have the potential to deliver increasingly personalised and efficient service , to increase productivity , and to reduce administrative hurdle . while most of the world be make it hard to make decision exclusively use ADM , clause 12 in the Bill extend the potential for automated decision making in the UK . yet countless research project have show that automate decision making and machine decision making be not as impartial or blind as they sound . Algorithms can harbour and enhance inbuilt prejudice and injustice . of course we can not bury our head in the sand and pretend that the technology will not be implement or that we can legislate it out of use ; we should be smart about ADM and try to unlock its potential while mitigate its potential danger . where people ' s livelihood be at risk or where decision be go to have a significant impact , it be essential that extra protection be in place allow individual to contest decision and secure human review as a fundamental backstop . our amendment 5 strike a well balance by extend the safeguard provision to include significant decision that be base both partly and solely on automate processing ; I be very hopeful that the Government will accept our amendment . that mean great safeguard for anybody subject to an automate decision - make process , however that decision be make . it can not just be a matter of " the computer say no . " I think the Minister be slightly surprised that we be concerned about democratic engagement , but I will explain . the Bill introduce several change to electoral practice under the guise of what the Government call " democratic engagement " , most notably through clause 86 and 87 . the former mean that any political party or elect representative could engage in direct marketing rely on a soft opt - in procedure , while clause 87 allow the Secretary of State to make any future exemption and change to direct marketing rule for the very unspecified purpose of " democratic engagement " . the Ada Lovelace Institute and the Internet Advertising Bureau have raise concern about that , and in Committee Labour ask the Minister what the Government have in mind . he rather give the game away when he write to my hon . friend the Member for Barnsley East ( Stephanie Peacock ) , to whom I pay tribute for the way she take the Bill through the Committee : " a future government may want to encourage democratic engagement in the run up to an election by temporarily ' switch off ' some of the direct marketing rule . " switch off the rule ahead of an election — do anyone else smell a rat ? the Government ask we to trust they , but when they change the rule on voting , refuse automatic registration of voter and dramatically increase the amount that they can spend on a general election , all to benefit their own party interest , forgive I if I worry that they be try to slip yet another change through just before an election that will enable the Tories to mine people ' s information for vote . that be why I be doubly suspicious of clause 86 and 87 . the first seem to make legal a practice that I suspect several conservative mp be already engage in : use datum acquire as an MP for the wholly different purpose of seek re - election as a candidate . the second be a major power grab by the Secretary of State , enable they to change the direct marketing rule for election with the bare minimum of scrutiny . clause 86 should be rewrite to remove the soft opt - in in provision for political party and elect representative , and clause 87 should be scrap . the change be not support by the majority of respondent to the Government ' s initial consultation , who want the Privacy and Electronic Communications ( EC Directive ) Regulations 2003 rule to be uphold , and they will not be support by Labour today . in address Government amendment 256 , the Minister offer a suppose explanation of what " democratic engagement " mean , but it be basically literally anything that anybody could do in a political party or as an elect representative . I do not think that he clarify it ; if anything , he just extend it . I will refer briefly to amendment 45 , table by the hon . member for Aberconwy ( Robin Millar ) , who be in his place a moment ago — [ interruption . ] ah , he have move . of course interoperability of datum in the health service between all the different part of the United Kingdom be devoutly to be wish for . in fact , it would be quite nice if GP surgery be able to have full interoperability between one another . I be tell the other day that we have 3 . 1 million resident in Wales , but something like 9 million patient record , which suggest that something be not quite right . there be a similar number , I think , for England , Wales and Northern Ireland , so of course we need to get to a place of great interoperability . I be nervous about the amendment , simply because the Welsh Government have not be consult . I do not know about the Scottish Government or other . I do not want to stir the devolution pot in a way that be unhelpful , so we will abstain on the amendment . the hon . member be look pregnant with something ; I do not know whether he intend to intervene . indicate dissent . he do not — great . finally , new schedule 1 would grant the Secretary of State the power to require bank or other financial institution to provide the bank account datum — unspecified — of any recipient of benefit to identify " case which merit further consideration to establish whether relevant benefit be be pay or have be pay in accordance with the enactment and rule of law relate to those benefit . " it be a very broad and , I would argue , poorly delineate power . my understanding from the Commons Library , although I note that the Minister be unable to answer the question properly , be that it include the bank account of anyone in the UK in receipt , or have be in receipt , of state pension , universal credit , work tax credit , child tax credit , child benefit , pension credit , jobseeker ' s allowance or personal independence payment . the Minister say that the Government do not intend to go down some of those route at the moment , but why , in that case , be they seek that power ? they could have come to we with a much more tightly write piece of legislation , and we would have be able to help they draft it properly . the propose new schedule would mean that million of bank account could be trawl without the Department for Work and Pensions , as the right hon . member for Haltemprice and Howden ( Mr Davis ) refer to , even suspect anything untoward before it ask for the information . the 19 - page new schedule , which be table on the last day for consideration , would grant power to the Government without our have any opportunity to scrutinise it line by line , assess its implication or hear evidence from expert witness . we should of course be tackle fraud . the Government have completely lose control of fraud in recent year , with benefit fraud and error skyrocket to £ 8 . 3 billion in the last financial year . the Minister seem to think that it be a good thing that he could cite that figure . the year before , it be even high — a record £ 8 . 7 billion . on the conservative party ' s watch , the percentage of benefit expenditure lose to fraud have more than treble since Labour be last in power . let I be absolutely clear : labour will pursue the fraudster , the conman and the claimant who try to take money from the public purse fraudulently or illegally . that include those who have defraud the taxpayer over personal protective equipment contract , or have not declare their full income to his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs . my constituent in the Rhondda know that defraud the taxpayer be one of the bad form of theft . it be theft from all of we . it undermine confidence in the system that so many rely on . it anger people when they abide by the rule and they see other swinge the lead and get away with it . I back 100 % any attempt to tackle fraud in the system , and we will work with the Government to get the legislation right , but this be not the way to do it , because it be not proper scrutiny . the Minister with responsibility for this matter , the Minister for Disabled People , Health and Work , who be present in the Chamber , be not even speak in the debate . the Government be ask we to take a lot on trust , as we see from the question put early to the Minister for Data and Digital Infrastructure , so I have some more question for he that I hope he will be able to answer . as I understand it , the Government do a test project on this in 2017 — all of six year ago — so what on earth have they be do all this while ? when be the new schedule first draft , and why do the Minister not mention it in the discussion that he and I have two week ago ? how many bank account do it potentially apply to ? the Government already have power to seek bank detail where they suspect fraud , so precisely how will the new power be use ? I have be tell that the Government will not use the power until 2027 . be that right ? if so , how on earth do they come to the figure of a £ 600 million saving — that be the figure that they give yesterday , but I note that the Minister say £ 500 million early — in the first five year ? what will the cost be to the bank and financial institution ? what kind of information will the Government seek ? will it include detail of where people have shop , bank or travel , or what they have spend their money on ? the Government say that they will introduce a set of criterion specify the power . when will that be introduce , how wide in scope will it be , what assessment will accompany it , and will it be subject to parliamentary scrutiny ? there be clearly significant potential to use datum to identify fraud and error . that be something that Labour be determined to do , but it be vital that new measure be use fairly and proportionately . the Department for Work and Pensions say that its ability to test for unfair impact across protect characteristic be limited , and the National Audit Office have also warn that machine learn risk bias towards certain vulnerable people or group with protect characteristic . without proper safeguard in place , the change could have significant adverse effect on the most vulnerable people in society . on behalf of the whole Labour party , I reiterate the offer that I make to the Government yesterday . we need to get this right . we will work with Ministers to get it right , and I very much hope that we can organise meeting after today , if the Bill pass , to ensure that the debate in the Lords be well informed and that we get to a much well understanding of what the Government intend and how we can get this right . if we get it wrong , we will undermine trust in the whole data system and in Government . broadly speak , Labour support the change in the Bill that give great clarity and flexibility to researcher , tech platform and public service provider , with common - sense change to datum protection where it be overly rigid , but the Government do not need to water down essential protection for datum subject to do that . our amendment set out clearly where we diverge from the Government and how Labour would do thing differently . by maintain subject access request protection , establish a definition of high - risk processing on the face of the Bill , and defend the public from automated decision make that encroach too significantly on people ' s life , a Bill with Labour ' s amendment would unlock the new potential for datum that improve public service , protect worker from datum power imbalance and deliver cut - edge scientific research , while also build trust for consumer and citizen . that be the data protection regime the UK need and that be the protection a Labour Government would have deliver . before I speak to my new clause , I want to address one or two of the thing that the Opposition spokesman , the hon . member for Rhondda ( Sir Chris Bryant ) , just raise . by not accept his motion to recommit the Bill to a Committee , we have in effect delegate large part of the work on this important Bill to the House of Lords . I say directly to the Whip on the Treasury Bench that , when the Bill come back to the Commons in ping - pong , I recommend that the Whips Office allow considerable time for we to debate the change that the Lords make . at the end of the day , this House be responsible to our constituent and these issue will have a direct impact on they , so we ought to have a strong say over what be do with respect to this Bill . new clause 43 in my name be entitle " right to use non - digital verification service " . Digitisation have have tremendous benefit for society . administrative task that once take week or even year can now be do in second , thank to technology , but that technology have come with considerable risk as well as problem of access . the internet be an equaliser in many way ; I can access website and service in East Yorkshire in the same way that we do here . I can send and receive money , contact friend and family , organise family , do work , and do all sort of other thing that we could not once do . however , the reality be more nuanced . some people lack the technological literacy or simply the hardware to get online and make the most of what be out there — think of elderly people , the homeless and those live on the breadline . as with many thing , those group risk be leave behind by the onward march of technology through no fault of their own . indeed , some people do not want to go fully online . many people who be perfectly au fait with the late gadget be none the less deeply concerned about the security of their datum , and who can blame they ? my bank account have be access from Israel in the past . my online email have be break into during political battle of one sort or another . these thing be risky . I hope nobody in the Chamber have forget the Edward Snowden revelation about the National Security Agency and GCHQ , which reveal a vast network of covert surveillance and datum gathering by Government agency from ordinary online activity , and the sharing of private information without consent . more recently , we have hear how Government agency monitor people ' s social medium post during the pandemic , and datum trading by private company be an enormous and lucrative industry . what be more , as time pass and the rise of artificial intelligence take hold , the ability to make use of central database be become formidable . it be beyond imagination , so people be properly cautious about what datum they share and how they share it . for some people — this be where the issue be directly relevant to this Bill — that caution will mean avoid the use of digital identity verification , and for other that digital verification be simply inaccessible . the Bill therefore create two serious problem by its underlying assumption . already it be become extremely difficult for people to live anything approach a normal life if they be not fully wire into the online network . if they can not even verify who they be without that access , what be they suppose to do ? that be why I want to create a right to offline verification and , in effect , offline identification . we see early this year what can happen when someone be exclude from basic service , with the plan closure of Nigel Farage ' s bank account . that case be not relate to identification , but it make clear how much of an impact such exclusion can have on someone ' s life . those who can not or do not wish to verify their identity digitally could end up in the same position as Farage and many other who have see their access to banking restrict for unfair reason . the rise of online banking , although a great convenience for many , must not mean certain other be leave out . we be talk about fairly fundamental right here . those people who , by inclination or otherwise , find it preferable or easy to stick to old - fashioned way must not be exclude from society . my amendment would require that all service require identity verification offer a non - digital alternative , ensure that everyone , regardless of who they be , will have the same access . that non - digital alternative could take a number of form . it could simply mean work with the Post Office to allow people to verify their identity in person , or have people post in copy of their exist identity document , passport , drive licence and the like . the specific route be not the most important thing ; what matter be that people have a choice and be not coerce into provide the datum through digital mean , whether their reason be concern about their privacy or something else . some may worry about what that mean for digital - only service such as some of the so - call challenger bank , but there be nothing to stop such service remain online and simply outsource the non - digital alternative for verification to a trust third party with physical capacity . it be only right that those bank , like everyone else , offer service to everyone , regardless of how they want to prove who they be . it may well be — in fact I think it be quite likely — that a series of organisation such as solicitor , bank and other institution go into the business of provide physical rather than online verification . some 20 year ago , in the face of opposition in this place and in the country at large , the Blair Government abandon identity card . the reason the card be oppose be the central control of a single piece of datum about individual . it be not about the card , but about the central control of datum . that problem still apply today and people should still worry about it . this Bill mark another step into the rapidly advance new world of technology . it be crucial that we get this right now . if we make presumption in this Bill that lead to people have to depend on online identification , we will create problem down the road that we have not foresee . I say to the Minister on the Front Bench that I will not press my new clause to a vote this time , but I hope the Government will look properly at create that right during the Bill ' s passage through the Lords . it seem to I a perfectly sensible and intelligent thing for the Government to undertake . the last point I want to make relate to the issue that the Minister for Disabled People , Health and Work , my hon . friend the Member for Corby ( Tom Pursglove ) , raise . to be fair to he , he raise they with I before they come to the House , and I agree with he that something like what he be propose be necessary , but it need to be really severely constrain . there be already commercial method for do some of the thing he want to do that be less intrusive than what the Government have propose . again , I hope we can talk to he in the interim between the Bill clearing this House and its go to the Lords . I be sure that the opposition have get the same aim here : to get an outcome that be fair to ordinary people but protect the taxpayer from the massive fraud that the Minister be try to stop . it be difficult to know where to start . the Minister describe this as a Brexit opportunitie Bill . of course , Brexit be suppose to be about this place take back control . it be to be the triumph of parliamentary sovereignty over faceless Brussels bureaucrat , the end of red tape and regulation , and the beginning of a glorious new era of freedom unencumbered by all those complicated European Union rule and requirement that do silly thing like keep people safe and protect their human right . yet here we be with 200 page of new rule and regulation and a further 160 page of amendment . this time last week , the amendment paper be 10 page long ; today it be 15 time that and there be barely any time for any kind of proper scrutiny . be this what Brexit be for : to hand the Government yet more sweeping power to regulate and legislate without any meaningful oversight in this place ? to create additional burden on business and public service , just for the sake of be different from the European Union ? the answer to those question be probably yes . I will speak briefly to the SNP amendment , but I will also consider some of the most concern Government proposition be shoehorn in at the last minute in the hope that no one will notice . how else be we suppose to treat Government new schedule 1 ? the Minister be try to present it as benign , or even helpful , as if it have be the Government ' s intention all along to grant the DWP power to go snoop around in people ' s bank account , but if it have be so long in come , as he say , why be it be add to the Bill only now ? why be it not in the original draft , or even bring to Committee , where there could at least have be detailed scrutiny or the opportunity to table further amendment ? of course there should be action to tackle benefit fraud — we all agree on that — but the DWP already have power , under section 109B of the Social Security Administration Act 1992 , to issue a notice to bank to share bank account information provide that they have reasonable ground to believe that an identify , particular person have commit , or intend to commit , a benefit offence . in other word , where there be suspicion of fraud , the DWP can undertake check on a claimant ' s account . incidentally , there should also be action to tackle tax evasion and tax fraud . the Government evidently do not require from the Bill any new power in that area , so we can only assume that they be satisfied that they have all the power they need and that everything possible be be do to ensure that everybody pay the tax that they owe . the power in new schedule 1 go much far than the power that the DWP already have . by their own admission , the Government will allow the DWP to carry out — proactively , regularly , at scale and on a speculative basis — check on the bank account and finance of claimant . the new schedule provide little in the way of safeguard or reassurance for people who may be subject to such check . the Secretary of State say that " only a minimum amount of datum will be access and only in instance which show a potential risk of fraud and error " . in that case , why be the power need at all , give that the Government already have the power to investigate where there be suspicion of fraud ? and how can only " a minimum amount " of datum be access when the Government say in the same breath that they want to be able to carry out those check proactively and at scale . my hon . friend probably share my concern that we be move into a new era in which the bank account detail of people claim with the DWP must be share as a matter of course . that be the only reason I can see for such sweeping amendment , which will impact on so many people . there be a huge risk . it be clear that the Government ' s starting point be very often to avoid give people the social security and welfare support that they might need to live a dignified life . we know that the approach in Scotland be incredibly different . that be the thing : as with so much of this Bill , there be a good chance that minority group or people with protect characteristic will find themselves most at risk of those check and of come under the proactive suspicion of the DWP . as we say when move the committal motion , we have not have time to seek properly to interrogate that point . in his attempt to answer intervention , the Minister kind of demonstrate why scrutiny have be so inadequate . at the same time , the Government ' s own Back Benchers , include the right hon . member for Haltemprice and Howden ( Mr Davis ) , the hon . member for Yeovil ( Mr Fysh ) and other , be table quite thoughtful amendment — that be never a great sign for a Government . the Government should not be afraid of the kind of safeguard and protection that they be propose . the SNP amendment look to remove the most dangerous and damaging aspect of the Bill — or , at the very least , to amend they slightly . our new clause 44 and amendment 229 would have the effect of transfer the power of the Surveillance Camera Commissioner to the Investigatory Powers Commissioner . that should not be all that controversial . Professor William Webster , a director of the Centre for Research into Information , Surveillance and Privacy , have warn that the Bill , as it stand , do not provide adequate mechanism for the governance and oversight of surveillance camera . the amendment would ensure that oversight be retain , the use of CCTV continue to be regulate , and public confidence in such technology be strengthen , not erode . CCTV be become more pervasive in the modern world — not least with the rise of video doorbell and similar device that people can use in their own personal circumstance — so it be concern that the Government be seek to weaken rather than strengthen protection in that area . the SNP ' s amendment 222 would leave out clause 8 , and our amendment 223 would leave out clause 10 , remove the Government ' s attempt to crack down on subject access request . the effect of those clause might , in the Government ' s mind , remove red tape from business and other data - control organisation , but it would do so at the cost of individual ' access to their own personal datum . that be typify by the creation of a new and worryingly vague criterion of " vexatious or excessive " as ground to refuse a subject access request . although that might make life easy for datum controller , it will ultimately place restriction on datum subject ' ability to access what be , we must remember , their datum . there have be attempt — not just throughout Committee stage , but even today from the opposition — to clarify exactly the threshold for " vexatious and excessive " request . the Government have be unable to answer , so those clause should not be allow to stand . amendment 224 also seek to leave out clause 12 , express the concern of many stakeholder about the expansion in scope of automated decision making , alongside an erosion of exist protection against automated decision making . the Ada Lovelace Institute state that : " against an already - poor landscape of redress and accountability in case of AI harm , the Bill ' s change will far erode the safeguard provide by underlie regulation . " there be already significant and public concern about AI and its increasingly pervasive impact . clause 12 fail to offer adequate protection against automated decision making . an individual may grant consent for the processing of their datum — indeed , they might have no choice but to do so — but that do not mean that they will fully understand or appreciate how that datum will be process or , importantly , how decision will be make . at the very least , the Government should accept our amendment 225 , which would require the controller to inform the datum subject when an automated decision have be take in relation to the data subject . I suspect , however , that that be unlikely — just as it be unlikely that the Government will accept Labour amendment 2 and 5 , which we be happy to support — so I hope the House will have a chance to express its view on clause 12 as a whole later on . the SNP ' s amendment 226 , 227 and 228 would have the effect of remove clause 26 , 27 and 28 respectively . those clause give the Home Secretary significant new power to authorise the police to access personal datum , and a power to issue a " national security " certificate tell the police that they do not need to comply with many important data protection law and rule that they would otherwise have to obey , which would essentially give police immunity should they use personal datum in a way that would otherwise be illegal — and they would no long need to respond to request under the Freedom of Information Act 2000 . we have hear no explanation from the Government for why they think that the police should be allow to break the law and operate under a cover of darkness . the Bill will also expand what count as an " intelligence service " for the purpose of datum protection law . again , that would be at the Home Secretary ' s discretion , with a power to issue a designation notice allow law enforcement body to take advantage of the more relaxed rule in the Data Protection Act 2018 — otherwise design for the intelligence agency — whenever they be collaborate with the security service . the Government might argue that that create a simplified legal framework , but in reality it will hand massive amount of people ' s personal information to the police , include the private communication of people in the UK and information about their health history , political belief , religious belief and private life . neither the amend approach to national security certificate nor the new designation notice regime would be reviewable by the court , and give that there be no duty to report to Parliament , Parliament might never find out how and when the power have be use . if the Home Secretary say that the police need to use those increase power in relation to national security , his word would be final . that include the power to handle sensitive datum in way that would otherwise , under current legislation , be criminal . the Home Secretary be responsible for both approve and review designation notice . only a person who be directly affect by such a notice will be able to challenge it , yet the Home Secretary would have the power to keep the notice secret , mean that those affect would not even know about it and could not possibly challenge it . those be expansive broadening not just of the power of the secretary of state , but of the police and security service . the Government have not offer any meaningful reassurance about how those power will be apply or what oversight will exist , which be why our amendment propose scrap those clause entirely . there remain other concern about many aspect of the Bill . the British Medical Association and the National AIDS Trust have both raise question about patient ' and worker ' right to privacy . the BMA call the Bill " a departure from the exist high standard of datum protection for health datum " . we welcome the amendment to that area , particularly amendment 11 , table by the hon . member for Jarrow ( Kate Osborne ) , which we will be happy to support should it be select for a vote . I be afraid that I have to echo the concern express by the Labour Front - Bench spokesman , the hon . member for Rhondda ( Sir Chris Bryant ) , about new clause 45 , which be table by the hon . member for Aberconwy ( Robin Millar ) . that clause perhaps have laudable aim , but it be the view of the Scottish National party that it be not for this place to legislate in that way , certainly not without consultation and ideally not without consent from the devolved authority . we look forward to hear the hon . member for Aberconwy make his case , but I do not think we be in a position to support his new clause at this time . the theme of an erosion of public confidence in datum handling and the use of artificial intelligence come through in many of the stakeholder response to the Bill . that be precisely the opposite of what the Government say they set out to do . the claim of massive saving from reduced red tape also do not stand up to scrutiny : the Government ' s own impact assessment say that company will save just £ 82 a year on average as a result of the reform that the Bill introduce . we echo some of the official Opposition ' s concern about the Bill ' s democratic engagement clause . it be important for party , candidate and elect member to have clarity about their position in relation to the handling of personal datum , but that should not be at the expense of the right of voter to have their personal datum duly protect . as I say to the Minister in an intervention , I hope he will look at the definition of " permit participant " in clause 88 ( 1 ) and schedule 1 , take account of legislation that have be pass by the Scottish Parliament , and expand it from have the same meaning as in the Political Parties , Elections and Referendums Act 2000 to include the definition in the Referendums ( Scotland ) Act 2020 . on the whole , there be far too much in the Bill , and far too little time to interrogate it all properly . remove some of the most pernicious clause or make amendment here and there would fundamentally do little to reduce the many risk that the Bill present to individual ' right to privacy and to have their datum protect from pry eye — in Government or elsewhere — and the cost and pressure on business and third - sector organisation try to comply with the regime . the Government have table significant new power at the last minute through new clause and schedule that , by definition , can not have have the scrutiny they deserve . as such , although in principle we can support sensible amendment from both side of the House , we will oppose many of the Government ' s new clause and schedule , and — especially give that the House have decide not to recommit the Bill for further scrutiny — I expect we will also oppose it on Third Reading . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member who have speak in this very important debate . I declare an interest : I be the chair of the all - party parliamentary group on digital identity , so I have a particular interest in the ramification of datum as it relate to identity , but also in wide concept — some of which we have hear about today — such as artificial intelligence and how our datum might be use in the future . I share quite a lot of the concern that we have hear from both side of the House . there be an awful lot more work to be do on the detail of the Bill , think about its implication for individual and business ; how our system work and how our public service interact with they ; and how our security and police force interact with our datum . I hope that noble member of the other place will think very hard about those thing , and I hope my right hon . friend the Minister will meet I to discuss some of the detail of the Bill and any useful new clause or amendment that the Government might introduce in the other place . I completely agree that we do not have much time today to go through all the detail , with a substantial number of new clause have be add in just the past few day . I will speak specifically to some of the amendment that stand in my name . essentially , they be in two grouping : one group deal with the operation of the trust framework for the digital verification service , which I will come back to , and the other general area be the Henry VIII - style power that the Bill give to Ministers . those power fundamentally alter the balance that have be in place since I be elect as a Member of Parliament in term of how individual and their datum relate to the state . on artificial intelligence , we be at a moment in human evolution where the decision that we make — that scientist , researcher and company make about how they use datum — be absolutely fundamental to the operation of so many area of our life . we need to be incredibly careful about what we do to regulate AI and think about how it operate . I be concerned that we have large tech company whose business model for decade have be nothing other than to use people ' s datum to create product for their own benefit and that of their shareholder . during the passage of the Online Safety Act 2023 , we debate very fully in this House what the implication of the algorithm they develop might be for our child ' s health , for example . I completely agree with the Government that we should be look for way to stamp out fraud , and should think about how harm of various kind be address . however , we need to be mindful of the big risk that fear and belief that be not necessarily true about different potential harm might lead we to regulate , or to guide the operation of company and other , in such a way that we create real problem . we be talk about very capable artificial intelligence system , and also about artificial intelligence system that claim to be very capable but be inherently flawed . the big tech company be almost all championing and sponsor large language model for artificial intelligence system that be train on datum . those company will lobby Ministers all the time , say , " we want you to enable we to get more and more of people ' s datum , " because that datum be of business value to they . give the Henry VIII power that exist in the Bill , there be a clear and present danger that future minister — I would not cast aspersion on the current , eminent occupant of the Front Bench , who be a Wykehamist to boot — may be tempt or persuade in the wrong direction by the very powerful data - generate interest of those big tech firm . as such , my amendment 278 and 279 be design to remove from the Bill what the Government be propose : effectively , that Ministers will have the power to totally recategorise what kind of datum can legitimately be share with third party of one kind or another . as I mention , that fundamentally change the balance between individual and the state . through amendment 280 and new schedule 3 , I propose that when Ministers implement the trust framework within the digital verification service , that framework should be base on principle that have be accept for the eight year since I be elect — in particular , those use by the Government in establish the framework around its verify online identity service for public service . that framework should be use in the context of the Bill to think about what decision - maker should be take into account . it be a system of principle that have be through consultation and have be broadly accept . it be something that the ICO accept and champion , and it would be entirely right and not at all a divergence from our current system to put those principle in place . what I would say about the legitimate interest recognition extension — the Henry VIII power — be that there be already indication in the Bill about what will be recategorise . it give an idea of just how broad the categorisation could be , and therefore how potentially dangerous it will be if that process be not follow or be not correctly frame — for example , in relation to direct marketing . direct marketing can mean all sort of thing , but it be essentially any type of direct advertising in any mode use personal datum to target advertising , and I think it be really dangerous to take such a broad approach to it . before company share datum or use datum , they should have to think about what the balance be between a legitimate interest and the data right , privacy right and all the other right that people may have in relation to their datum . we do not want to give they a loophole or a way out of have to think about that . I be very pro - innovation and pro - efficiency , but I do not believe it be inefficient for company and user or holder of datum to have to make those basic balance judgment . it be no skin off their nose at all . this should be something we uphold because these interest be vital to our human condition . the last thing we want be an artificial intelligence model — a large language model — make decision about we , serve we with thing base on our personal datum and even leak that personal datum . I highlight that only yesterday or the day before , a new academic report be produce show that some of the large language model be leak personal datum on which they have be train , even though the company say that that be impossible . the researcher have manage to get around the alignment guardrail that these AI company say they have in place , so we can not necessarily believe what the big tech company say the behaviour of these thing be go to be . at the end of the day , large language model , which be just about statistic and correlation , can not tell we why they have do something or anything about the chain of causality behind such a situation , and they inherently get thing wrong . anyone make claim that they be reliable or can be rely on to handle personal datum be , I think , completely wrong . I hope that noble Lords and Ladies will think carefully about that matter and re - table amendment similar to mine . new clause 27 and the follow new clause that the Government have table on interface body show the extent to which these new system — and decision about new system — and how they interface with different public service and other body be totally extensible within the framework of the Bill , without further regard to minority or to law , except in so far as there may be a case for judicial review by an individual or a company . that really be the only safeguard that there will be under these Henry VIII clause . the interface body provision talk about authorised party be able to share datum . we have hear how the cookie system be very bad at the moment at effectively reflect what individual ' true preference might or might not be about their personal datum . it be worth highlight the thoughtful comment we hear early about way in which people can make more of a real - time decision about particular issue that may be relevant to they , but about which they may not have think at all when they authorise such a decision in a dark or non - thinking moment , often some time before . I want to say a little more about the operation of the digital verification service system . my amendment 242 to 250 deal with the way in which those operation occur . we should think about whether it be correct that the Minister should in effect just be able to make up whatever the fee system might be . I think that be a problem , and it be something that member of the industry engage in digital ID , for example , have raise with I . there be some issue about how people or company may be deregistere from the verification system and the trust mark that will supposedly be put in place by this new Government registration process . that could actually be very serious for an individual , and if they be suddenly say not to be trust , it could be of massive import to they . there should be some process for think about and consult on how such deregistration decision be make , what avenue for challenge there may be and so on . I hope those in the other place will think very hard about those thing , too . I know that minister have think about DVS as a voluntary system , rather than something absolutely require in law for everybody handle datum . however , we all know that system that be set up to establish trust become very difficult for someone who want to run a business or to do thing , because if they do not have the trust mark , that will become a real issue . it be also a very simple step from such a system to have a fully regulate body . even if it be not ostensibly a fully regulate body in law , there would be a chilling effect for those who do not have the trust mark , so I think that be really important to think about properly . the final amendment of mine that I want to speak to be amendment 281 on zero - knowledge proof . many people in the country will not know what they be , and I know about they only because I have be engage in think about digital system , digital asset , blockchain and all the technical aspect of that for some time . in essence , they be a way that digital system can share datum status — in other word , know what someone ' s data status be — with each other , third party and so on , without any risk that that datum would be transmit or see by anybody else . it be of particular use in relation to privacy and the right to privacy that we have talk about before . as currently draft , the Bill do not differentiate the processing of datum in a way that do not expose the datum or the status of the datum relative to the holder of datum from process that do so . it would be highly valuable if such decentralised system — zero - knowledge system — of proof of particular data status be specifically exclude from the legislation , so that it be very clear that they will not fall under potential regulation or the potential chilling effect . the side benefit be that we would also avoid the inevitable centralisation that would otherwise occur of particular big data holder or big data operator that can afford to be register and do all such thing . I finish by urge the Government to think hard about this stuff . it might seem troublesome , and they might want to forge ahead and do innovative thing and all the rest of it , but this be such a serious moment in our history as a species . the way that data be handle be now fundamental to basic human right and , I would increasingly argue , to the human condition . People such as the like of Sam Altman and so on in the US be openly talk about AI integration with human and the acceleration of AI . a big debate be go on between those who want to accelerate thing and those who want to decelerate they . it will be accelerate , because we can not stop researcher and scientist do thing , but if we put the wrong framework in place , and allow the wrong datum to be shareable in the wrong way , that could have huge consequence for we . I say to those in the other place as well as to those on the front Benches that we have not be able to go through this in detail , but we should think about it incredibly hard . it might seem an esoteric and arcane matter , but it be not . People might not currently be interested in the in and out of how AI and datum work , but in future you can bet your bottom dollar that AI and datum will be interested in they . I urge the Government to work with we to get this right . I have now to announce the result of today ' s deferred Division on the Draft Strikes ( Minimum Service Levels : NHS Ambulance Services and the NHS Patient Transport Service ) Regulations 2023 . the Ayes be 297 and the Noes be 166 , so the Ayes have it . [ the Division list be publish at the end of today ' s debate . ] I rise to speak specifically to Government new clause 34 and connected Government amendment which , as we have be remind , give Ministers power to inspect the bank account of anyone claim a social security benefit . I think it have be confirm that that include child benefit and the state pension , as well as universal credit and all the other . extremely wide power be be give to Ministers . the Minister tell we that the measure be expect to save some half a billion pound over the next five year . I be pleased that the Minister for Disabled People , Health and Work be present at the start of the debate , although he be not now in his place and the Department for Work and Pensions be not hear the concern express about this measure . the Minister for Data and Digital Infrastructure tell we that the Minister for Disabled People , Health and Work will not be not speak in the debate , so we will not hear what the DWP think about these concern . we have also be tell — I have not see this assurance — that these power will not be use for a few year . if that be correct , I be completely mystify by why this be be do in such a way . if we have a few year to get these power in place , why do the Government not wait until there be some appropriate draft legislation that could be properly scrutinise , rather than bring such measure forward now with zero Commons scrutiny and no opportunity for that to occur ? there will no doubt be scrutiny in the other place , but surely a measure of this kind ought to undergo scrutiny in this House . I chair the Work and Pensions Committee and we have receive substantial concern about this measure , include from Citizens Advice . the Child Poverty Action Group say that " it shouldn ' t be that people have few right , include to privacy , than everyone else in the UK simply because they be on benefit . " I think that sum up what a lot of people feel , although it appear to be the position that the Government be now take . it be surprising that the conservative party be bring forward such a major expansion of state power to pry into the affair of private citizen , and particularly do so in such a way that we be not able to scrutinise what it be plan . as we have be remind , the state have long have power where there be ground for suspect that benefit fraud have be commit . the proposal in the Bill be for surveillance where there be absolutely no suspicion at all , which be a substantial expansion of the state ' s power to intrude . Annabel Denham , deputy comment editor at the Daily Telegraph warn in the Spectator of such a measure hand " authority the power to snoop on people ' s bank account . " I suspect that the view express there be more likely to find support on the Conservative Benches than on the Labour Benches , so I be increasingly puzzle by why the Government think this be an appropriate way to act . I wonder whether the fact that there have be such warning prompt Ministers into rush through the measure in this deeply unsatisfactory way , without an opportunity for proper scrutiny , because they think that if there have be parliamentary scrutiny there would be substantial opposition from the conservative Benches as well as from the Labour Benches . it be difficult to understand otherwise why it be be do in this way . as we have be remind , new clause 34 will give the Government the right to inspect the bank account of anyone who claim a state pension , which be all of we . it will give the Government the right to look into the bank account of every single one of we at some point during our life , without suspect that we have ever do anything wrong , and without tell we that they be do it . the Minister say early that the power of the state should be limit to those absolutely necessary , and I have always understand that to be a principle of the conservative party . yet on the power in the new clause to look into the bank account of everybody claim a state pension , he be unable to give we any reason why the Government should do such a thing , or why they would ever need to look into the bank account of people — everybody — claim a state pension . what on earth would the Government need to do that for ? the entitlement to the state pension be not base on income , saving or anything like that , so why would the Government ever wish to do that ? if we can not think of a reason why the Government would want to do that , why be they now take the power to enable they to do so ? I think that all of we would agree , whatever party we be in , that the power of the state should be limit to those absolutely necessary . the power in the new clause be definitely not absolutely necessary . indeed , no one have be able to come up with any reason for why it would ever be use . there be something call a production order . if somebody be under investigation for benefit fraud , an application could be make before a court for the production of bank account . if it be a matter of suspect fraud , there be already a mechanism available . yes , there be a clear and long - establish right in law for the DWP to look into people ' s bank account if there be a suspicion of fraud . this power be give the Department the ability to look into the bank account of people where there be no suspicion at all . all of we at some point in our life claim a social security benefit , and we be give the Government the power to look into our bank account with this measure . the Minister rightly mention that the idea first appear in a DWP paper in May last year . that speak of the need to balance this power against people ' s right to privacy and to ensure that the new power be appropriate , be no more than necessary and have the right check in place . those proposal , have be moot in May of last year , should have be publish . we should have be able to see what exactly the proposal be . there should then have be an opportunity for discussion . they should have be consult on , and there be plenty of time between last May and now to do all that . instead , the first we see of this measure be last week , and there have be no consultation at all since that initial mooting of the idea in May last year . if the Minister can give any explanation for why that dreadful course of behaviour and procedure have be follow , we would all be interested . it seem to I incapable of be defend . the amendment give the Government extremely broad power , with no check in place , and it have be do in a way that minimise parliamentary scrutiny of what be propose . I find it very hard to see how that can possibly be defend . no doubt the Minister will tell we that at some point there will be some document set out check and balance and so on , but that need to be part of this scrutiny . it should not be that the Government take it all away to come back in a few month ' time to tell we how they will constrain the use of this power . finally , it occur to I that the power be introduce could be use to establish benefit eligibility for people who do not currently claim benefit . we know , for example , that a large number of people do not claim pension credit , but be eligible for it . a lot of the information about whether they be entitle to pension credit be already hold in the public sector , and in local council in particular . if it be possible to check whether people have less than the threshold saving level , that could help in establish eligibility for pension credit automatically . can the Minister tell we whether that be intend with this proposal ? I rise to speak to new clause 1 in my name and that of other colleague . early this year , I meet with member of Leicestershire Police Federation , who raise concern about element of the Data Protection Act 2018 that be impose unnecessary and burdensome redaction obligation on police force . I thank the national Police Federation for its tireless campaign on this issue , particularly Ben Hudson of Suffolk police , and I thank my hon . friend the Member for Waveney ( Peter Aldous ) for all he have do in this area . I thank they for much of the information I will share today . as I explain in Committee , part 3 of the 2018 Act implement the law enforcement directive and make provision for datum processing by competent authority , include police force and the Crown Prosecution Service , for law enforcement purpose . paragraph ( 4 ) of the enforcement directive emphasise that the " free flow of personal datum between competent authority for the purpose of the prevention , investigation , detection or prosecution of criminal offence … should be facilitate while ensure a high level of protection of personal datum . " however , part 3 of the 2018 Act contain no provision at all to facilitate the free flow of personal datum between the police and the CPS . instead , it impose burdensome obligation on the police , require they to redact personal datum from information transfer to the CPS . those obligation be only delay and obstruct the expeditious progress of the criminal justice system and be not even mandate by the law enforcement directive . the problem have arise due to chapter 2 of part 3 of the 2018 Act , which set out six datum protection principle that apply to data processing by competent authority for law enforcement purpose . section 35 ( 1 ) state : " the first data protection principle be that the processing of personal datum for any of the law enforcement purpose must be lawful and fair . " section 35 ( 2 ) state : " the processing of personal datum for any of the law enforcement purpose be lawful only if and to the extent that it be base on law and either — ( a ) the data subject have give consent to the processing for that purpose , or ( b ) the processing be necessary for the performance of a task carry out for that purpose by a competent authority . the Police Federation have say that it be unlikely that section 35 ( 2 ) ( a ) will apply in this context . it have also say that in the case of 35 ( 2 ) ( b ) , the test of whether the processing be " necessary " be exact , require a competent authority to apply its mind to the proportionality of process specific item of personal datum for the particular law enforcement purpose in question . under section 35 ( 3 ) to 35 ( 5 ) , where the processing be " sensitive processing " , an even more rigorous test apply , require among other thing that the processing be " strictly necessary for the law enforcement purpose " in question . section 37 state : " the third data protection principle be that personal datum process for any of the law enforcement purpose must be adequate , relevant and not excessive in relation to the purpose for which it be process . " for the purpose of the 2018 Act , the Crown Prosecution Service and each police force be separate competent authority and separate datum controller . therefore , as set out in section 34 ( 3 ) , the CPS and each police force must comply with the data protection principle . a transfer of information by a police force to the CPS amount to the processing of personal datum . the test of " necessary " and " strictly necessary " under the first and third datum protection principle require a competent authority to identify and consider each and every item of personal datum contain within the information that it be intend to process and to consider whether it be necessary for that item of personal datum to be process in the manner intend . the impact of this be that when prepare a case file for a charge decision from the CPS , the police must spend huge amount of time and resource analyse information that have be gather by investigate officer in order to identify every item of personal datum . they then have to decide whether it be necessary or , in many case strictly necessary , for the CPS to consider each item of personal datum when make its charge decision , and to redact every item of personal datum that do not meet that test . the National Police Chiefs ' Council and the CPS have produce detailed guidance on this redaction process . it emphasise that the 2018 Act be a legal requirement and that the police and the CPS do not have any special relationship that negate the need to redact and protect personal information . the combination of the requirement of the guidance and of the Act represent a huge amount of administrative work for police officer , result in hour of prepare appropriate redaction . furthermore , such work be inevitably carry out by relatively junior officer who have no particular expertise in data protection , and much of it may never be use by the CPS if the matter be not charge or if the defendant plead guilty before trial . nationally , about 25 % of case that be submit to the CPS be not charge . a significant proportion of that time and money could be save if the redaction of personal datum by the police occur after , rather than before , a charge decision have be make by the CPS . the burden that this be place on police force be highlight in the 2022 " Annual Review of Disclosure " by the Attorney General ' s Office , which hear evidence from police that " redaction of material for disclosure be place a significant pressure on resource " . it also find that one police force have invest £ 1 million in a disclosure specialist team solely to deal with redaction . in its report on police priority , the Home Affairs Committee state : " the National Police Chiefs ' Council and the College of Policing say this ' labour - intensive ' process ' tie up police resource for a protect period of time ' , mean investigation take long , and possibly add to the likelihood of victim withdraw their support for a case . the College note that the problem have become bad as digital device such as phone and laptop have develop ever great storage capacity , mean there be more datum for the police to process and redact . disparity in digital capability across the 43 local force also exacerbate the problem . " the report go on to say : " lengthy and inefficient redaction process and protract investigation be neither effective nor fair on either victim or suspect . the handling of case file need to comply with data protection law . however , ensure that the requirement be proportionate and that force have the digital capacity to meet such requirement efficiently be an urgent issue that need address . More need to be do to pilot solution and get the balance right . " furthermore , the Police Federation and the National Police Chiefs ' Council estimate that the cost nationally of the redaction exercise be over £ 5 . 6 million per annum . there be no disputing that there be a clear issue here , and I welcome that this have be acknowledge by Ministers I have be engage with , include the Minister for Crime , Policing and Fire , my right hon . friend the Member for Croydon South ( Chris Philp ) ; the former Home Secretary , my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Fareham ( Suella Braverman ) ; and the Minister for Data and Digital Infrastructure , the right hon . member for Maldon ( Sir John Whittingdale ) . only last week , the latter emphasise to I the Government ' s support for reform . indeed , the autumn statement last week highlight the Government ' s commitment to boost public sector productivity by run an ambitious public sector productivity programme with all Departments to reimagine the way public service be deliver . the focus of that will be on " reduce the amount of time our key frontline worker , include police , doctor , and nurse , spend on administrative task " . that be to ensure that they can spend more time deliver for the public . arguably , the current process of datum redaction be the big unnecessary administrative task keep police officer away from the frontline , so reform need to be implement urgently . my new clause lay out a blueprint for that reform and would insert a propose new section into the 2018 Act to exempt the police service and the CPS from comply with the first data protection principle — except in so far as that principle require process to be fair — or with the third data protection principle when prepare a case file for submission to the CPS for a charge decision , thereby facilitate the free flow of personal datum between the police and the CPS . if the CPS decide to charge , the case file would be return to the police to carry out the redaction exercise before there be any risk of the file be disclose to any person or body other than the CPS . in the 25 % of case in which the CPS decide not to charge , the unredacted file would simply be delete by the CPS . my new clause would have no obvious disadvantage , as the security of the personal datum would not be compromise and the necessary redaction would still be undertake once a charging decision have be make . furthermore , provide material unredacted to the CPS pre - charge would not impact the timeliness of the process in any way , as the police would still be provide the same material to the CPS as they would have do previously , just unredacted . I know from my conversation with Ministers that there be a few question from a number of source about whether legislative change be the good way to tackle the issue surround redaction . to that , the Police Federation have say that " the hope be that the CPS will set out , within their charge advice , what material they intend to rely upon and , therefore , only the require material will have to be redact by the police . this would be do in line with the maximum time of service set out within the ' well case management handbook Jan 23 ' , which state that service be require no less than five day before the hearing . so we must accept that there may be a slight delay in the CPS be able to serve their case on the defence at the point of charge . but the time in which it will take police force to apply for a charge decision to the CPS will be far quick without the need for redact . thus , stop defendant be on bail or under ' release under investigation ' status for as long as they currently be and victim of crime wait less time for charge decision . " in addition , the Police Federation have highlight that while auto - redaction software will help to mitigate the current issue , it will not recover all policing capacity in respect of redaction . officer will still need to review the item to consider what auto - redaction parameter need apply , otherwise police could risk end up with mass over - redaction , and have to check to ensure nothing have be miss . the real benefit for auto - redaction software will come post - charge , especially if the CPS state exactly what material it intend to use or disclose . I also appreciate that the Government feel they can not support my amendment because of three technical legal point , and I would like to summarise the Police Federation ' s response to this , base on advice from its lead counsel who be experience in the field of datum protection and privacy . the Government ' s first objection be that there be provision in the 2018 Act , other than the first and third data protection principle , that " in effect require the material concern to be review and redact " . the two example give by the Home Office be the sixth datum protection principle and section 44 . the sixth data protection principle — datum security — do not require case file to be redact . the same standard of " appropriate technical or organisational measure " be require whether case file be redact before or after the CPS have make a charge decision . the Police Federation ' s lead counsel have point out that section 44 ( 4 ) of the Act already contain potentially relevant restriction on a data subject ' s right . those restriction during an investigation would be consistent with an amendment provide for the police to redact any give case file only after the CPS have decide to charge . on the Home Office ' s second objection , that a broad amendment " may be problematic for the ICO and international stakeholder " , the legal expert have highlight that the propose new clause seek only to determine the respective responsibility of the police and the CPS in the processing involve in prepare and submit a case file to the CPS for a charge decision . it would not remove any substantive protection or the obligation to review and redact the personal datum in case file material . it simply provide for such review and redaction by the police after — rather than before — a charge decision have be make . the law enforcement directive , on which the relevant part of the 2018 Act be base , would have permit that when the Act be pass , and I be tell there be no legal reason why it can not be introduce now . on the Home Office ' s third objection , that other privacy law might require the police to review and redact case file even if the 2018 Act be amend in the manner suggest by the Police Federation , the legal expert have point out that datum protection legislation do not generally seek to regulate other privacy - protect law . the impact of the Act on journalism be a good example , as the journalism exemption in part 5 of schedule 2 do not seek to regulate the common - law tort of misuse of private information . data protection legislation should be appropriately calibrate in a particular area even if other legal rule may also have a role in that area . at present , the data protection obligation give rise to the problem . the legal expert believe that it be mere speculation whether other legal rule might give rise to a similar problem if those obligation be amend . it be crucial that we do everything possible to ease the administrative burden on police officer , to free up thousand of police hour and get police back on to the frontline , support community and tackle crime . my new clause would go a long way to achieve that , by facilitate the free flow of personal datum between the police and the CPS , which would speed up the criminal justice process and reduce the burden on the taxpayer — a stated aim of the Government . how disheartening it must be for a police officer to take time and patience redact datum only to find that the case do not go forward , as occur in 25 % of case . common sense must prevail . I rise to speak to the six amendment that I have table to the Bill . I be grateful to Mr Speaker for select amendment 11 , which I will press to a vote . it be an extremely important amendment that I hope will unite member across the House , and I thank the hon . member for Glasgow North ( Patrick Grady ) for confirm his party ' s support for it . I add mine and that of the Labour party , too . I thank my hon . friend for that . I have be contact by many people and organisation about issue with the Bill . the British Medical Association and the National AIDS Trust have serious concern , which I share , about the sharing of healthcare datum and the failure to consider the negative impact of lose public trust in how the healthcare system manage datum . the Bill be an opportunity to adapt the UK ' s datum law to strengthen accountability and data processing , but it currently fail to do so . it provide multiple Henry VIII power that will enable future Secretaries of State to avoid parliamentary scrutiny and write their own rule . it undermine the independence of the Information Commissioner ' s Office in a way that provide less protection to individual and give more power to the Government to restrict and interfere with the role of the commissioner . the Government ' s last - minute amendment to their own Bill , to change the rule on direct marketing in election and give themselves extensive access to the bank account of benefit claimant , risk alienate people even far . I hope the House tell Ministers that it be entirely improper — in fact , it be completely unacceptable — for the Government to make those amendment , which require full parliamentary scrutiny , at this late stage . we know people already do not trust the Government with NHS health datum . the Bill must not erode public trust even more . we have see concern about datum with GP surgery and the recent decision to award Palantir the contract for the NHS ' s federate data platform . a 2019 YouGov survey show that only 30 % of people trust the Government to use datum about they ethically . I imagine that figure be much low now . how do the Government plan to establish trust with the million of people on pension credit , state pension , universal credit , child benefit and other whose bank account — million of bank account — they will be able to access under the Bill ? as my hon . friend the Member for Rhondda ( Sir Chris Bryant ) and other have ask , legislative power already exist where benefit fraud be suspect , so why be the amendment necessary ? my amendment 11 seek to ensure that special category datum , such as that relate to a person ' s health , be adequately protect in workplace setting . as the Bill be currently word , it could allow employer to share an employee ' s personal datum within their organisation without a justifiable reason . the health datum of all worker will be at risk if the amendment fall . we must ensure that employee ' personal datum , include health datum , be adequately protect in workplace setting and not share with individual who do not need to process it . the National AIDS Trust be concern that the Bill ' s current wording could mean that people ' s HIV status can be share without their consent in the workplace , use the justification that it be " necessary for administrative purpose " . that could put people live with HIV at risk of harassment and discrimination in the workplace . the sharing of individual ' HIV status can lead to people live with HIV experience further discrimination and increase their risk of harassment or even violence . I be concern about the removal of check on the police processing of an individual ' s personal datum . we must have such check . the House have hear of previous incident involve people live with HIV whose HIV status be share without their consent by police officer , both internally within their police station and in the wide community they serve . ensure that police officer must justify why they have access an individual ' s personal data be vital for evidence in case of police misconduct , include where a person ' s HIV status be share inappropriately by the police or when not relevant to an investigation into criminal activity . the Bill be not robust enough on the transfer of datum internationally . we need to ensure that there be a mandated annual review of the data protection test for each country so that the data protection regime be secure , and that people ' s personal datum , such as their LGBTQ + identity or HIV status , will not be share inappropriately . LGBTQ + identity be criminalise in many country , and the transfer of personal datum to those country could put an individual , their partner or their family member at real risk of harm . I have table six amendment , which would clarify what an " administrative purpose " be when organisation process employee ' personal datum ; retain the duty on police force to justify why they have access an individual ' s personal datum ; ensure that third country ' datum protection test be review annually ; and ensure that the Secretary of State seek the view of the Information Commissioner when assess other country ' suitability for the international transfer of datum . I urge all member to vote for amendment 11 , and I urge the Government and the other place to take on board all the point raise in today ' s debate and in amendment 12 to 16 in my name . I rise to speak to new clause 2 , which , give its low number , everyone will realise I table pretty early in the Bill ' s passage . it address the smart datum clause that sit as a block in the middle of the Bill . it be wonderful to see the degree of cross - party support for the smart datum measure . the shadow Minister ' s remark show that the Labour Front Bench have drink deeply from the Kool - Aid , in the same way as the rest of we . it be vital that the measure move forward as fast and as safely as possible , because they have huge potential for our economy and our gdp growth . as the Minister rightly say , they seek to build on the undoubted world - lead success of our exist position in open banking . my new clause be fairly straightforward , and I hope that the Minister will elaborate in his closing remark on the two further measure that it seek , which I and a number of other people urge the Secretary of State to take in a letter back in July . to underline the breadth of support for the measure , the letter be sign by the chief datum and analytic officer of the NatWest Group , lead figure in the Financial Data and Technology Association , the co - founder and chief executive officer of ozone api , the director general of the Payments Association , the founder and chief executive of Icebreaker one — who be , incidentally , now also chair of the Smart Data Council — the founder of Open Banking Excellence , and the ceo of the Investing and Saving Alliance . I be make not only a cross - party point , but a point that have widespread support among the very organisation involve in smart datum , and particularly the open banking success that we all seek to replicate . if we be to replicate our success in open banking across other part of our economy , we need two thing to be true . first , we must make sure that all data standard apply in other sector be interoperable with the data standard that already exist in open banking . the point be that data standard will be different in each sector , because each sector ' s data be hold in different way , in different place and by different people , under different foundational legal power , but they must all converge on a set of standard that mean that health datum can safely and securely talk to , say , energy datum or banking datum . follow on from my early intervention , when the Minister be talk about Government new clause 27 , if we be to have data standard that allow different bit of datum to be exchange safely and securely , it be essential that we do not end up with siloe standard that do not interoperate and that can not talk to each other , between the different sector . otherwise , we will completely fail to leverage our exist lead in open banking , and we will effectively have to reinvent the wheel from scratch every time we open up a new sector . I hope that , by the time the Minister respond to the various point raise in this debate , inspiration will have strike and he will be able to confirm that , although we might have different data standard , it be the Government ' s intention that those standard will all be interoperable so that we avoid the problem of balkanisation , if I can put it that way . I hope he will be able to provide we with a strong reassurance in that direction . the second point encapsulate in new clause 2 deal with the follow situation . let we suppose that I be an app company that be currently successful in open banking . I have a piece of middleware in the open banking ecosystem , but I fancy be able to take what I have do successfully — it be world - lead in open banking — and roll it out to other sector of the economy . I might want to produce a health , energy or other app to profit — or to provide service — from the Government ' s plan to roll out smart datum across the rest of the economy . I therefore need to know which sector be go to be do and in what order . otherwise , as I walk into the office on Monday morning , need to go up to my development team , I do not know whether I will be tell they to do the energy development , the water development or the open smart datum development for online retail first . all I need , therefore , be a Gantt chart or a timetable — we can call it what we will ; I just need something that tell I which sector , in what order and by what date , so that I can make sure that my app be ready on those launch date in order to be able to profit from this . so I be delighted to see the Government ' s autumn statement of a week or 10 day ago , in paragraph 4 . 28 of the Green Book , talk about , as those on the Labour Front Bench have mention , " a Smart Data Big Bang " cover " seven sector " . that be wonderful — absolutely super — but I ask , " which seven sector , and when ? " if the Minister be able to clarify that , or at the very least say when the Government be go to publish the timetable name the sector and the date on which each sector will be ready , he will be do international investor in our country and our exist successful , world - lead organisation — I agree with the hon . gentleman on this , but quite a lot of step need to be take here . for instance , we might need to mandate standard on smart meter in order to be able to take advantage of these measure . we have not be give any kind of plan so far — unless he have see something . I wish I have see something , because then I would be able to pull my amendment or inform the House . I have not see something , and I think such a plan be essential , not just for member in the Chamber this afternoon , but for all those investor , business leader and app developer . that would allow they to work out the critical path , whatever the minimum viable product might be and everything else that be go to be necessary , and by what date , for the sector they be aim for . so the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right in what he say , and it be vital that if the Minister can not come up with the timetable this afternoon , he can at least come up with a timetable for the timetable , so that we all know when the thing will be available and the rest of the open banking industry can work out how it be go to become an " open everything " industry and in what order , and by what time . so this be fairly straightforward . there be promising sign , both in the autumn statement and in the Government ' s new clause 27 , but further detail need to be tie down before they can be genuinely useful . I be assume , hope and pray that the Minister will be able to provide some of those reassurance and detail when he make his closing remark , and I will therefore be able to count this as a probe amendment and push it no far . I be devoutly hope that he will be able to make that an easy moment for I when he get to his foot . I apologise to right hon . and hon . member for any confusion that my movement around the Chamber may have create early , Mr Deputy Speaker . new clause 45 be about the comparability and interoperability of health datum across the UK . I say to the hon . member for Rhondda ( Sir Chris Bryant ) , the Opposition spokesman , that I have never be call pregnant before — that be a new description — but I will return to his point shortly in these brief remark . there be three important reason worth state why datum comparability be important . the first be that it empower patient . the publication of standardised outcome give patient the ability to make informed choice about their treatment and where they may choose to live . secondly , it strengthen care through well professional decision making . it allow administrator to manage resource and scientist to make interpretation of the datum they receive . thirdly , comparable datum strengthen devolution , administration and policy making in the health sector . transparent and comparable datum be essential for that and ensure that we , as politician , be accountable to voter for the quality of service in our area . we could have an academic and philosophical discussion about this , but what bring I to table new clause 45 be the state of healthcare in north Wales . we have a health board that have be in special measure for the good part of eight year , and I have to wonder if that would be the case if the scrutiny of it be great . one of the intention of devolution be to foster good practice , but in order for that to happen we need comparability , which have not prove to be the case in the health sector . for example , NHS Scotland do not publish standard referral to treatment time . where it do , it do not provide average and percentile , but rather the proportion of case meet Scotland - only target . in Wales , RTTs be broadly define as the time spend wait between a referral for a procedure and get that procedure . in England , only consultant - lead pathway be report , but in Wales some non - consultant - lead pathway be include , such as direct access diagnostic and ally health professional therapy , such as physiotherapy and osteopathy , which inevitably impact waiting time . on cancer waiting time , England and Scotland have a target of a test within six week . however , there be different number of test — eight north and 15 south of the border — and different measure for when the period end — until the last test be complete in England or until the report be write up in Scotland . those who understand health matter will make well sense of what those difference mean , but I simply make the observation that there be difference . in Wales , the way we deal with cancer wait time be different . Wales start its 62 - day treatment target from the date the first suspicion be raise by any health provider , whereas in England the 62 - day target be from the date a specialist receive an urgent gp referral . furthermore , in Wales routine referral reprioritise as " urgent , with suspicion of cancer " be consider to be start a new clock . what can be do about this and why do it require legislation ? new clause 45 may seem familiar to hon . member because it be first bring forward as an amendment to the Health and Care Bill in 2022 . it be withdraw with the specific intention of give the Government the time to develop a collaborative framework for share datum with the devolved administration . I pay tribute to all four government , the Office for National Statistics and official for their work since then . notwithstanding that work , on 5 September 2023 Professor Ian Diamond , the UK national statistician , make the follow remark to the Public Administration and Constitutional Affairs Committee about gather comparative health datum across the devolved administration : " you be entirely right that statistic be a devolved responsibility and therefore the datum that be collect for administrative purpose in different part of the United Kingdom differ . we have find it very difficult recently to collect comparable datum for different administration across the UK on the health service , for example . " on work more closely with the devolved Administrations ' own statistical authority , he say : " we have be work very hard to try to get comparable datum . comparable datum be possible in some area but not in other . try to get cancer outcome — " as I have just refer to — " be very difficult because they be collect in different way … while statistic be devolve , I do not have the ability to ensure that all datum be collect in a way that be comparable . we work really hard to make comparable datum as well as possible , but at the moment I have to be honest that not all datum can be compare . " Mr Deputy Speaker , new clause 45 be bring forward as a constructive proposal . I believe that it be good for the patient , good for the professional who work on their healthcare , and good for our own accountability . I do not think that this House would be divide on ground of compassion or common sense . I thank all those member who have support my new clause and urge the Government to legislate on this matter . today be an opportunity for I to discuss the issue involve , but I shall not be move my new clause . with the leave of the House , I call the Minister to wind up the debate . I thank all hon . member who have contribute to the debate . I believe that these matter be important , if sometimes very complicated and technical . my hon . friend the Member for Yeovil ( Mr Fysh ) be absolutely right to stress how fundamentally important they be , and they will become more so . I also thank the shadow Minister for identify the area where we be in agreement . we have a good Committee stage with his colleague , the hon . member for Barnsley East ( Stephanie Peacock ) , where we agree on the overall objective of the Bill . it be welcome that the shadow Minister have support we , particularly on the amendment that we move this afternoon on the power of the Information Commissioner ' s Office , the provision relate to digital verification service , and smart datum . there be , however , some area on which we will not agree . let I begin by address the main amendment that the hon . Gentleman have move . amendment 1 relate to high - risk processing . it be the case that one of the main aim of the Bill be to remove some of the UK GDPR ' s unnecessary compliance burden . that be why organisation will be require to designate only senior responsible individual to carry out risk assessment and keep record of processing when their activity pose high risk to individual . the amendment that the hon . Gentleman be propose would reintroduce a prescriptive list of high - risk processing activity draw from article 35 of the UK GDPR . we find that some of the language in article 35 be unclear and confusing , which be partly why we remove it in the first place . we think organisation should have the ability to make a judgment of risk base on the specific nature , scale and context of their own processing activity . we do not need to provide prescriptive example of high - risk processing in the legislation , because any list could quickly become out of date . instead , to help data controller , clause 18 of the Bill require the ICO to produce a document with example of what the commissioner consider to be high - risk processing . but the Minister have already indicate that , basically , he will come forward with exactly the same list as be in the legislation that the Government be amend . all that be happen be that , in the Bill , the Information Commissioner will be do what the Government or the House could be do , and this be the one area where the Government disagree with the Information Commissioner . as I say , the Government do not believe that it be necessary to have a prescriptive list in the Bill . we feel that it be well that individual make a judgment base on their assessment of the risk , with the guidance of the Information Commissioner . move to the shadow Minister ' s second amendment , the Government agree that controller should not be able to refuse a request without proper thought or consideration . that be why the exist responsibility of controller to facilitate request from datum subject as the default have not change and why the new article 12a also ensure that the burden of proof for a request meet the vexatious or excessive threshold remain with the controller . the Government believe that be sufficient , and stipulate that evidence must be provide each time a request be refuse may not be appropriate in all circumstance and would likely bring further burden for controller . on that basis , we oppose that amendment . on amendment 5 , the safeguard set out in reform article 22 of the UK GDPR ensure that individual be able to seek human intervention when significant decision about they be take solely through automated mean with no meaningful human involvement . partly automate decision already involve meaningful human involvement , so there be no need to extend the safeguard in article 22 to all form of automate decision making . in such instance , other datum protection requirement continue to apply and offer relevant protection to data subject , as set out in the broad UK datum protection regime . those protection include lawfulness , fairness , transparency and accountability . amendment 218 , which the hon . member for Rhondda table along with amendment 219 and 220 , give we the opportunity to debate the democratic engagement provision in the Bill . amendment 218 and 219 would remove clause 87 and 88 , which give the Secretary of State a power to make exception to the privacy and electronic communication regulation direct marketing provision on communication send for the purpose of democratic engagement . we have no immediate plan to use the regulation power , but it be conceivable that future government might want to treat communication send for the purpose of democratic engagement differently from those for commercial marketing . we would lose the option to do that if the regulation - make power be remove . before lay any regulation under the clause , the Secretary of State would need to consult the Information Commissioner and have specific regard to the effect that further exception could have . I turn to the measure relate to the power of the Department for Work and Pensions , raise by the hon . member for Rhondda , the right hon . member for East Ham ( Sir Stephen Timms ) , who be Chair of the Work and Pensions Committee , and the hon . member for Glasgow North ( Patrick Grady ) , who speak for the Scottish National party . we believe that this targeted and limited measure will enable we to identify fraudulent benefit claim and , as a result , will save the taxpayer a significant amount of money . on the specific point of whether the power should be target on individual benefit rather than more generally , I should say that at the moment fraud and error in state pension , for instance , be near zero . the Government intend to target the benefit power where there be clear evidence of fraudulent activity . we be include all benefit to make sure that state pension stay that way . my understanding be that the level of fraud among state pension claim be indeed extremely small . the Minister say early that the Government should take power only where they be absolutely necessary ; I think he be now say that they be not necessary in the case of people claim a state pension . be he confident that that bit of this power — to look into the bank account of anybody claim a state pension — be absolutely necessary ? what I be say be that the Government ' s intention be to use the power only when there be clear evidence or suggestion that fraud be take place on a significant scale . the Government simply want to retain the option to amend that should future evidence emerge ; that be why the issue have be leave open . the trouble be that this be not about amend . the Government describe the relevant benefit in part 5 of propose new schedule 3b , within new schedule 1 , which be clear that pension be include . the Minister have effectively say at the Dispatch Box that the Government do not need to tackle fraud in relation to pension ; perhaps it would be a good idea for we to all sit down and have a meeting to work out a more sensible set of measure to tackle fraud where it be necessary , rather than give unending power to the Government . I agree , to the extent that level of fraud in state pension be currently nearly zero , the power be not need in that case . however , the Government wish to retain an option should the position change in the future . but I be happy to take the hon . gentleman up on his request on behalf of my hon . friend the Minister for Disabled People , Health and Work , with whom he have already engage . I be sure that the right hon . member for East Ham will want to examine the issue far in the Work and Pensions Committee , which he chair . it will undoubtedly also be subject to further discussion in the other place . we be certainly open to further discussion . the right hon . member for East Ham also raise the question of commencement . I can tell he that the test and learn phase will begin in 2025 , with a steady roll - out to full - scale delivery by 2030 . I be sure that he will want to examine these matter far . the amendment table by my right hon . friend the Member for Haltemprice and Howden ( Mr Davis ) focus on digital exclusion . the Bill provide for the use of secure and inclusive digital identity across the economy . it do not force business or individual to use they . individual choice be integral to our approach . as the Bill make clear , digital verification service can be provide only at the request of the individual . where people want to use a digital verification service , the Government be commit to ensure that available product and service be secure and privacy - focused . that be to be achieve through the high standard set out in the trust framework . the trust framework also outline how service can improve inclusion , and require service to publish an annual inclusion monitoring report . there be business that operate only in the digital sphere , such as some online bank and energy company , as I think have be acknowledge . we feel that to oblige they to offer manual document checking would place obligation on business that go beyond the Government ' s commitment to do only what be necessary to enable the digital market to grow . on amendment 224 from the Scottish National party , solely automate decision make that produce legal or similarly significant effect on individual be not entirely prohibit previously under the UK ' s data protection legal framework . the rule govern article 22 be confusing and complex , so clause 12 clarifie and simplifie the rule relate to solely automate decision making , and will reduce barrier to responsible datum use , help to drive innovation , and maintain high standard of datum protection . the reform do not water down any of the protection to data subject offer under the broad UK datum protection regime — that is , UK GDPR and the Data Protection Act 2018 . on the other amendment table by the SNP , amendment 229 , effective independent oversight of surveillance camera system be crucial to public trust . the oversight framework be complex and confusing for the police and public because of substantial duplication between the surveillance camera commissioner function and the code , which cover police and local authority in England and Wales only , and the ICO and datum protection legislation . the Bill address that , follow public consultation , through abolish the surveillance camera commissioner and code . the amendment table by the hon . member for Glasgow North would negate that by retain the code and transfer the surveillance camera commissioner function to the investigatory power commissioner . it would also blur the line between overt and covert surveillance , which the investigatory power commissioner oversee . those two type of surveillance have distinct legislation and oversight , mainly because covert surveillance be generally consider to be significantly more intrusive . on amendment 222 , it be important to be clear that the ability to refuse or charge a reasonable fee for a request already exist , and clause 8 do not place new restriction on reasonable request from datum subject . the Government believe that it be proportionate to allow controller to refuse or charge a reasonable fee for vexatious or excessive request , and a clear provision enable controller to focus time and resource on respond to reasonable request instead . amendment 278 and 279 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Yeovil , would remove the new lawful ground of recognise legitimate interest , which the Bill will add to article 6 of UK GDPR . amendment 230 accept that there be merit in retain the recognise legitimate interest list , but would make any addition to it subject to a super - affirmative parliamentary procedure . it be true that the Bill remove the need for non - public - sector organisation to do a detailed legitimate interest assessment in relation to a small number of processing activity . those include activity relate for example to the safeguarding of child , crime prevention and respond to emergency . we hear from stakeholder that the need to do an assessment and the fear of get it wrong could sometimes delay or deter those important processing activity from take place . future government would not be able to add new activity to the list lightly ; clause 5 of the Bill already make it clear that the Secretary of State must carefully consider the right and interest of people , and in particular the special protection need for child , before add anything new to the list . any new regulation would also need to be approve via the affirmative resolution procedure . my hon . friend the Member for Yeovil have table a large number of other amendment , which be complicated in nature . I have write to he in some detail set out the Government ' s response to each of those , but if he wish to pursue far any of the point contain therein I would be very happy to have further discussion with he . I would like to comment on the amendment by several of my colleague that I wish I be in a position to be able to support . in particular , my hon . friend the Member for Loughborough ( Jane Hunt ) have be assiduous in pursue her point both in the Bill Committee and in this debate . the problem she identify be without question a very real one , and she set out in some detail how it be massively increase the burden on the police , which clearly we would wish to reduce wherever possible . I have have meeting with Home Office Ministers , as my hon . friend have , and they absolutely identify that problem and share her wish . while we welcome her intent , the problem be that we do not think that her amendment as draft would achieve her aim of remove the burden of redaction . to do so would require the amendment and exception of more principle than those identify in the amendment . indeed , it would require the amendment of more law than just the Data Protection Act 2018 . the Government be absolutely committed to reduce the burden on the police , but it be obviously important that , if we do so , we do it right , and that the solution work comprehensively . we be therefore actively work on way to well address the issue , include through improved process , new technology , guidance and legislation . I be very happy to continue to work with she on achieve the aim that we all share and so too , I know , be colleague in the Home Office . with respect to the amendment table by my hon . friend the Member for Weston - super - Mare ( John Penrose ) , as I indicate , we absolutely share his enthusiasm for smart datum and ensure that the power within the Bill be implement in a timely manner , with interoperability at their core . while I agree that we can only fully realise the benefit of smart datum scheme if they enable interoperability , different sector will have different level of exist digital infrastructure and capability . thus , we could inadvertently hinder the success of future scheme if we mandate the use of one universal set of standard base , for instance , on those use in open banking . the Government will ensure that interoperability be central to the development of smart datum scheme . to support our thinking , we be work with industry and regulator in the Smart Data Council to identify the technical infrastructure that need to be replicate . with regard to the timeline — or even the timeline for a timeline — that my hon . Friend ask for , I recognise that it be important to build investor , industry and consumer confidence by outline the Government ' s plan timeline . my hon . friend be right to highlight the Chancellor ' s comment in the autumn statement , where we set out plan to kick - start the smart datum big bang , and our ambition for use those power across seven sector . at this stage I be afraid I be not able to accept his amendment , but it be our intention to set out those plan in more detail in the come month . I know the Under - Secretary of State for Business and Trade , my hon . friend the Member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) and I will be happy to work with he to do so . the aim of the amendment table by the hon . member for Jarrow ( Kate Osborne ) be to clarify that , when special category datum of employee such as health datum be transfer between member of a group of undertaking for internal administrative purpose on ground of legitimate interest , the condition and safeguard outline in schedule 1 of the Data Protection Act should apply to that processing . the Government agree with the sentiment of her amendment , but consider that it be unnecessary . the current legal framework already require controller to identify an exemption under article 9 of the UK GDPR if they be process special category datum . those exemption be supplement by the condition and safeguard outline in schedule 1 . under those provision , employer can process special category datum where processing be necessary to comply with obligation under employment law . we do not therefore consider the amendment necessary . finally , I turn to new clause 45 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Aberconwy ( Robin Millar ) . the Government be absolutely committed to improve the availability of comparable UK - wide datum . he , too , have be assiduous in promote that cause , and we be very happy to work with he . we be extremely supportive of the principle underlie his amendment . he be right to point out that people have the right to know the extent of Labour ' s failing with the NHS in Wales , as he point out , and his new clause send an important message on our commitment to well datum . I can commit to work at pace with he and the UK Statistics Authority to look at way in which we may be able to implement the intention of his amendment and bring forward legislative change follow those discussion . on that basis , I commend the Government amendment to the House . question put and agree to . new clause 6 accordingly read a second time , and add to the Bill . for the benefit of all member , we be before the knife , so we will have to go through a sequence of procedure . it would help I , the Clerk and the Minister if we have a degree of silence . this will take a little time , and we need to be able to concentrate . New Clause 48 - processing of personal datum reveal political opinion " ( 1 ) schedule 1 to the Data Protection Act 2018 ( special category of personal datum ) be amend in accordance with subsection ( 2 ) to ( 5 ) . ( 2 ) after paragraph 21 insert — ' democratic engagement 21a ( 1 ) this condition be meet where — ( a ) the personal datum process be personal datum reveal political opinion , ( b ) the data subject be age 14 or over , and ( c ) the processing fall within sub - paragraph ( 2 ) , subject to the exception in sub - paragraph ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) . ( 2 ) processing fall within this sub - paragraph if — ( a ) the processing — ( i ) be carry out by an elect representative or a person act with the authority of such a representative , and ( ii ) be necessary for the purpose of discharge the elect representative ' s function or for the purpose of the elect representative ' s democratic engagement activity , ( b ) the processing — ( i ) be carry out by a register political party , and ( ii ) be necessary for the purpose of the party ' s election activity or democratic engagement activity , ( c ) the processing — ( i ) be carry out by a candidate for election as an elect representative or a person act with the authority of such a candidate , and ( ii ) be necessary for the purpose of the candidate ' s campaign for election , ( d ) the processing — ( i ) be carry out by a permit participant in relation to a referendum or a person act with the authority of such a person , and ( ii ) be necessary for the purpose of the permit participant ' s campaign in connection with the referendum , or ( e ) the processing — ( i ) be carry out by an accredited campaigner in relation to a recall petition or a person act with the authority of such a person , and ( ii ) be necessary for the purpose of the accredited campaigner ' s campaign in connection with the recall petition . ( 3 ) processing do not meet the condition in sub - paragraph ( 1 ) if it be likely to cause substantial damage or substantial distress to an individual . ( 4 ) processing do not meet the condition in sub - paragraph ( 1 ) if — ( a ) an individual who be the data subject ( or one of the data subject ) have give notice in write to the controller require the controller not to process personal datum in respect of which the individual be the data subject ( and have not give notice in writing withdraw that requirement ) , ( b ) the notice give the controller a reasonable period in which to stop process such datum , and ( c ) that period have end . ( 5 ) for the purpose of sub - paragraph ( 2 ) ( a ) and ( b ) — ( a ) " democratic engagement activity " mean activity whose purpose be to support or promote democratic engagement ; ( b ) " democratic engagement " mean engagement by the public , a section of the public or a particular person with , or with an aspect of , an electoral system or other democratic process in the United Kingdom , either generally or in connection with a particular matter , whether by participate in the system or process or engage with it in another way ; ( c ) example of democratic engagement activity include activity whose purpose be — ( i ) to promote the registration of individual as elector ; ( ii ) to increase the number of elector participate in election for elect representative , referendum or process for recall petition in which they be entitle to participate ; ( iii ) to support an elect representative or register political party in discharge function , or carry on other activity , describe in sub - paragraph ( 2 ) ( a ) or ( b ) ; ( iv ) to support a person to become a candidate for election as an elect representative ; ( v ) to support a campaign or campaigning refer to in sub - paragraph ( 2 ) ( c ) , ( d ) or ( e ) ; ( vi ) to raise fund to support activity whose purpose be describe in sub - paragraph ( i ) to ( v ) ; ( d ) example of activity that may be democratic engagement activity include — ( i ) gather opinion , whether by carry out a survey or by other mean ; ( ii ) communicate with elector . ( 6 ) in this paragraph — " accredited campaigner " have the meaning give in Part 5 of Schedule 3 to the Recall of MPs Act 2015 ; " candidate " , in relation to election as an elect representative , have the meaning give by the provision list in the relevant entry in the second column of the table in sub - paragraph ( 7 ) ; " elect representative " mean a person list in the first column of the table in sub - paragraph ( 7 ) and see also sub - paragraph ( 8 ) to ( 10 ) ; " election activity " , in relation to a register political party , mean — ( a ) campaigning in connection with an election for an elect representative , and ( b ) activity whose purpose be to enhance the standing of the party , or of a candidate stand for election in its name , with elector ; " elector " mean a person who be entitle to vote in an election for an elect representative or in a referendum ; " permit participant " have the same meaning as in Part 7 of the Political Parties , Elections and Referendums Act 2000 ( referendum ) ( see section 105 of that Act ) ; " recall petition " have the same meaning as in the Recall of MPs Act 2015 ( see section 1 ( 2 ) of that Act ) ; " referendum " mean a referendum or other poll hold on one or more question specify in , or in accordance with , an enactment ; " register political party " mean a person or organisation include in a register maintain under section 23 of the Political Parties , Elections and Referendums Act 2000 ; " successful " , in relation to a recall petition , have the same meaning as in the Recall of MPs Act 2015 ( see section 14 of that Act ) . ( 7 ) this be the table refer to in the definition of " candidate " and " elect representative " in sub - paragraph ( 6 ) — elect representative candidate for election as an elect representative member of the House of Commons section 118a of the Representation of the People Act 1983 a member of the Senedd article 84 ( 2 ) of the National Assembly for Wales ( Representation of the People ) Order 2007 ( s . I . 2007 / 236 ) a member of the Scottish Parliament article 80 ( 1 ) of the Scottish Parliament ( election etc ) order 2015 ( S . s . I . 2015 / 425 ) a member of the Northern Ireland Assembly section 118a of the Representation of the People Act 1983 , as apply by the Northern Ireland Assembly ( Elections ) Order 2001 ( S . I . 2001 / 2599 ) an elect member of a local authority within the meaning of section 270 ( 1 ) of the Local Government Act 1972 , namely — ( i ) in England , a county council , a district council , a London borough council or a parish council ; ( ii ) in Wales , a county council , a county borough council or a community council ; section 118a of the Representation of the People Act 1983 an elect mayor of a local authority within the meaning of part 1A or 2 of the Local Government Act 2000 section 118a of the Representation of the People Act 1983 , as apply by the Local Authorities ( Mayoral Elections ) ( England and Wales ) Regulations 2007 ( s . I . 2007 / 1024 ) a mayor for the area of a combine authority establish under section 103 of the Local Democracy , Economic Development and Construction Act 2009 section 118a of the Representation of the People Act 1983 , as apply by the Combined Authorities ( Mayoral Elections ) Order 2017 ( S . I . 2017 / 67 ) a mayor for the area of a combine county authority establish under section 9 of the Levelling - up and Regeneration Act 2023 section 118a of the Representation of the People Act 1983 , as apply by the Combined Authorities ( Mayoral Elections ) Order 2017 ( S . I . 2017 / 67 ) the Mayor of London or an elect member of the London Assembly section 118a of the Representation of the People Act 1983 an elect member of the Common Council of the City of London section 118a of the Representation of the People Act 1983 an elect member of the Council of the Isles of Scilly section 118a of the Representation of the People Act 1983 an elect member of a council constitute under section 2 of the Local Government etc ( Scotland ) Act 1994 section 118a of the Representation of the People Act 1983 an elect member of a district council within the meaning of the Local Government Act ( Northern Ireland ) 1972 ( c . 9 ( N . I . ) ) section 130 ( 3A ) of the Electoral Law Act ( Northern Ireland ) 1962 ( c . 14 ( N . I . ) ) ( n ) a police and crime commissioner article 3 of the Police and Crime Commissioner Elections Order 2012 ( s . I . 2012 / 1917 ) ( 8 ) for the purpose of the definition of " elect representative " in sub - paragraph ( 6 ) , a person who be — ( a ) a member of the House of Commons immediately before Parliament be dissolve , ( b ) a member of the Senedd immediately before Senedd Cymru be dissolve , ( c ) a member of the Scottish Parliament immediately before that Parliament be dissolve , or ( d ) a member of the Northern Ireland Assembly immediately before that Assembly be dissolve , be to be treat as if the person be such a member until the end of the period of 30 day begin with the day after the day on which the subsequent general election in relation to that Parliament or Assembly be hold . ( 9 ) for the purpose of the definition of " elect representative " in sub - paragraph ( 6 ) , where a member of the House of Commons ' s seat become vacant as a result of a successful recall petition , that person be to be treat as if they be a member of the House of Commons until the end of the period of 30 day begin with the day after — ( a ) the day on which the result by - election be hold , or ( b ) if early , the day on which the next general election in relation to Parliament be hold . ( 10 ) for the purpose of the definition of " elect representative " in sub - paragraph ( 6 ) , a person who be an elect member of the Common Council of the City of London and whose term of office come to an end at the end of the day precede the annual Wardmotes be to be treat as if the person be such a member until the end of the fourth day after the day on which those wardmote be hold . ' ( 3 ) omit paragraph 22 and the italic head before it . ( 4 ) in paragraph 23 ( elect representative respond to request ) — ( a ) leave out sub - paragraph ( 3 ) to ( 5 ) , and ( b ) at the end insert — ' ( 6 ) in this paragraph , " elect representative " have the same meaning as in paragraph 21a . ' ( 5 ) in paragraph 24 ( 3 ) ( definition of ' elect representative ' ) , for ' 23 ' substitute ' 21a ' . ( 6 ) in section 205 ( 2 ) of the 2018 Act ( general interpretation : period of time ) , in paragraph ( i ) , for ' paragraph 23 ( 4 ) and ( 5 ) ' substitute ' paragraph 21a ( 8 ) to ( 10 ) ' . " — ( Sir John Whittingdale . ) this new clause insert into Schedule 1 to the Data Protection Act 2018 ( condition for processing of special category of personal datum ) a condition relate to processing by elect representative , register political party and other of information about an individual ' s political opinion for the purpose of democratic engagement activity and campaigning . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 7 - search in response to data subject ' request " ( 1 ) in article 15 of the UK GDPR ( right of access by the datum subject ) — ( a ) after paragraph 1 insert — ' 1A . under paragraph 1 , the data subject be only entitle to such confirmation , personal datum and other information as the controller be able to provide base on a reasonable and proportionate search for the personal datum and other information describe in that paragraph . ' , and ( b ) in paragraph 3 , after ' process ' insert ' to which the datum subject be entitle under paragraph 1 ' . ( 2 ) the 2018 Act be amend in accordance with subsection ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) . ( 3 ) in section 45 ( law enforcement processing : right of access by the datum subject ) , after subsection ( 2 ) insert — ' ( 2A ) under subsection ( 1 ) , the data subject be only entitle to such confirmation , personal datum and other information as the controller be able to provide base on a reasonable and proportionate search for the personal datum and other information describe in that subsection . ' ( 4 ) in section 94 ( intelligence service processing : right of access by the datum subject ) , after subsection ( 2 ) insert — ' ( 2za ) under subsection ( 1 ) , the data subject be only entitle to such confirmation , personal datum and other information as the controller be able to provide base on a reasonable and proportionate search for the personal datum and other information describe in that subsection . ' ( 5 ) the amendment make by this section be to be treat as have come into force on 1 January 2024 . " — ( Sir John Whittingdale . ) this new clause confirm that , in respond to subject access request , controller be only require to undertake reasonable and proportionate search for personal datum and other information . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 8 - notice from the Information Commissioner " ( 1 ) the 2018 Act be amend in accordance with subsection ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) . ( 2 ) omit section 141 ( notice from the Commissioner ) . ( 3 ) after that section insert — ' 141A Notices from the Commissioner ( 1 ) this section apply in relation to a notice authorise or require by this Act to be give to a person by the Commissioner . ( 2 ) the notice may be give to the person by — ( a ) deliver it by hand to a relevant individual , ( b ) leave it at the person ' s proper address , ( c ) send it by post to the person at that address , or ( d ) send it by email to the person ' s email address . ( 3 ) a " relevant individual " mean — ( a ) in the case of a notice to an individual , that individual ; ( b ) in the case of a notice to a body corporate ( other than a partnership ) , an officer of that body ; ( c ) in the case of a notice to a partnership , a partner in the partnership or a person who have the control or management of the partnership business ; ( d ) in the case of a notice to an unincorporated body ( other than a partnership ) , a member of its govern body . ( 4 ) for the purpose of subsection ( 2 ) ( b ) and ( c ) , and section 7 of the Interpretation Act 1978 ( service of document by post ) in its application to those provision , a person ' s proper address be — ( a ) in a case where the person have specify an address as one at which the person , or someone act on the person ' s behalf , will accept service of notice or other document , that address ; ( b ) in any other case , the address determine in accordance with subsection ( 5 ) . ( 5 ) the address be — ( a ) in a case where the person be a body corporate with a register office in the United Kingdom , that office ; ( b ) in a case where paragraph ( a ) do not apply and the person be a body corporate , partnership or unincorporated body with a principal office in the United Kingdom , that office ; ( c ) in any other case , an address in the United Kingdom at which the Commissioner believe , on reasonable ground , that the notice will come to the attention of the person . ( 6 ) a person ' s email address be — ( a ) an email address publish for the time be by that person as an address for contact that person , or ( b ) if there be no such publish address , an email address by mean of which the Commissioner believe , on reasonable ground , that the notice will come to the attention of that person . ( 7 ) a notice send by email be treat as give 48 hour after it be send , unless the contrary be prove . ( 8 ) in this section " officer " , in relation to a body corporate , mean a director , manager , secretary or other similar officer of the body . ( 9 ) this section do not limit other lawful mean of give a notice . ' ( 4 ) in Schedule 2 to the Electronic Identification and Trust Services for Electronic Transactions Regulations 2016 ( s . I . 2016 / 696 ) ( commissioner ' s enforcement power ) , in paragraph 1 ( b ) , for ' 141 ' substitute ' 141A ' . " — ( Sir John Whittingdale . ) this amendment adjust the procedure by which notice can be give by the Information Commissioner under the Data Protection Act 2018 . in particular , it enable the Information Commissioner to give notice by email without obtain the consent of the recipient to use that mode of delivery . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 9 - court procedure in connection with subject access request " ( 1 ) the Data Protection Act 2018 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) for the italic head before section 180 substitute — ' jurisdiction and court procedure ' . ( 3 ) after section 180 insert — ' 180a Procedure in connection with subject access request ( 1 ) this section apply where a court be require to determine whether a data subject be entitle to information by virtue of a right under — ( a ) article 15 of the UK GDPR ( right of access by the datum subject ) ; ( b ) article 20 of the UK GDPR ( right to datum portability ) ; ( c ) section 45 of this Act ( law enforcement processing : right of access by the datum subject ) ; ( d ) section 94 of this Act ( intelligence service processing : right of access by the datum subject ) . ( 2 ) the court may require the controller to make available for inspection by the court so much of the information as be available to the controller . ( 3 ) but , unless and until the question in subsection ( 1 ) have be determine in the datum subject ' s favour , the court may not require the information to be disclose to the datum subject or the datum subject ' s representative , whether by discovery ( or , in Scotland , recovery ) or otherwise . ( 4 ) where the question in subsection ( 1 ) relate to a right under a provision list in subsection ( 1 ) ( a ) , ( c ) or ( d ) , this section do not confer power on the court to require the controller to carry out a search for information that be more extensive than the reasonable and proportionate search require by that provision . ' " — ( Sir John Whittingdale . ) this new clause make provision about court ' power to require information to be provide to they , and to a data subject , when determine whether a data subject be entitle to information under certain provision of the data protection legislation . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 10 - approval of a supplementary code " ( 1 ) this section apply to a supplementary code whose content be for the time be determine by a person other than the Secretary of State . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State must approve the supplementary code if — ( a ) the code meet the condition set out in the DVS trust framework ( so far as relevant ) , ( b ) an application for approval of the code be make which complie with any requirement impose by a determination under section ( application for approval and re - approval ) , and ( c ) the applicant pay any fee require to be pay by a determination under section ( fee for approval , re - approval and continue approval ) ( 1 ) . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State must notify an applicant in writing of the outcome of an application for approval . ( 4 ) the Secretary of State may not otherwise approve a supplementary code . ( 5 ) in this Part , an " approve supplementary code " mean a supplementary code for the time be approve under this section . ( 6 ) for when a code cease ( or may cease ) to be approve under this section , see section ( change to condition for approval or designation ) , ( revision of a recognise supplementary code ) and ( request for withdrawal of approval ) . " — ( Sir John Whittingdale . ) this amendment set out when a supplementary code of someone other than the Secretary of State must be approve by the Secretary of State . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 11 - designation of a supplementary code " ( 1 ) this section apply to a supplementary code whose content be for the time be determine by the Secretary of State . ( 2 ) if the Secretary of State determine that the supplementary code meet the condition set out in the DVS trust framework ( so far as relevant ) , the Secretary of State may designate the code as one which comply with the condition . ( 3 ) in this Part , a ' designate supplementary code ' mean a supplementary code for the time be designate under this section . ( 4 ) for when a code cease ( or may cease ) to be designate under this section , see section ( change to condition for approval or designation ) , ( revision of a recognise supplementary code ) and ( removal of designation ) . " — ( Sir John Whittingdale . ) this enable the Secretary of State to designate a supplementary code of the Secretary of State as one which comply with the condition set out in the DVS trust framework . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 12 - List of recognise supplementary code " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must — ( a ) maintain a list of recognise supplementary code , and ( b ) make the list publicly available . ( 2 ) for the purpose of this Part , each of the following be a ' recognise supplementary code ' — ( a ) an approve supplementary code , and ( b ) a designate supplementary code . " — ( Sir John Whittingdale . ) this amendment place the Secretary of State under a duty to publish , and keep up to date , a list of supplementary code that be designate or approve . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 13 - change to condition for approval or designation " ( 1 ) this section apply if the Secretary of State revise the DVS trust framework so as to change the condition which must be meet for the approval or designation of a supplementary code . ( 2 ) an approve supplementary code which be affect by the change cease to be an approve supplementary code at the end of the relevant period unless an application for re - approval of the code be make within that period . ( 3 ) pende determination of an application for re - approval the supplementary code remain an approve supplementary code . ( 4 ) before the end of the relevant period the Secretary of State must — ( a ) review each designate supplementary code which be affect by the change ( if any ) , and ( b ) determine whether it meet the condition as change . ( 5 ) if , on a review under subsection ( 4 ) , the Secretary of State determine that a designate supplementary code do not meet the condition as change , the code cease to be a designate supplementary code at the end of the relevant period . ( 6 ) a supplementary code be affect by a change if the change alter , or add , a condition which be or would be relevant to the supplementary code when decide whether to approve it under section ( approval of a supplementary code ) or designate it under section ( designation of a supplementary code ) . ( 7 ) in this section " the relevant period " mean the period of 21 day begin with the day on which the DVS trust framework contain the change refer to in subsection ( 1 ) come into force . ( 8 ) section ( approval of a supplementary code ) apply to re - approval of a supplementary code as it apply to approval of such a code . " — ( Sir John Whittingdale . ) this amendment provide that when condition for approval or designation be change this require re - approval of an approve supplementary code and , in the case of a designate supplementary code , a re - assessment of whether the code meet the revise condition . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 14 - revision of a recognise supplementary code " ( 1 ) if an approve supplementary code be revise — ( a ) the code before and after the revision be treat as the same code for the purpose of this Part , and ( b ) the code cease to be an approve supplementary code unless subsection ( 2 ) or ( 4 ) apply . ( 2 ) this subsection apply if the supplementary code , in its revise form , have be approve under section ( approval of a supplementary code ) . ( 3 ) if subsection ( 2 ) apply the approve supplementary code , in its revise form , remain an approve supplementary code . ( 4 ) this subsection apply for so long as — ( a ) a decision be pende under section ( approval of a supplementary code ) on an application for approval of the supplementary code in its revise form , and ( b ) the revision to the code have not take effect . ( 5 ) if subsection ( 4 ) apply the supplementary code , in its unrevised form , remain an approve supplementary code . ( 6 ) the Secretary of State may revise a designate supplementary code only if the Secretary of State be satisfied that the code , in its revise form , meet the condition set out in the DVS trust framework ( so far as relevant ) . ( 7 ) if a designate supplementary code be revise , the code before and after the revision be treat as the same code for the purpose of this Part . " — ( Sir John Whittingdale . ) this amendment set out the consequence where there be change to a recognise supplementary code and , in particular , what need to be do for the code to remain a recognise supplementary code . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 15 - Applications for approval and re - approval " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State may determine — ( a ) the form of an application for approval or re - approval under section ( approval of a supplementary code ) , ( b ) the information to be contain in or provide with the application , ( c ) the document to be provide with the application , ( d ) the manner in which the application be to be submit , and ( e ) who may make the application . ( 2 ) a determination may make different provision for different purpose . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State must publish a determination . ( 4 ) the Secretary of State may revise a determination . ( 5 ) if the Secretary of State revise a determination the Secretary of State must publish the determination as revise . " — ( Sir John Whittingdale . ) this amendment enable the Secretary of State to determine the process for make a valid application for approval of a supplementary code . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 16 - fee for approval , re - approval and continue approval " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State may determine that a person who apply for approval or re - approval of a supplementary code under section ( approval of a supplementary code ) must pay a fee to the Secretary of State of an amount specify in the determination . ( 2 ) a determination under subsection ( 1 ) may specify an amount which exceed the administrative cost of determine the application for approval or re - approval . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State may determine that a fee be payable to the Secretary of State , of an amount and at time specify in the determination , in connection with the continue approval of a supplementary code . ( 4 ) a determination under subsection ( 3 ) — ( a ) may specify an amount which exceed the administrative cost associate with the continue approval of a supplementary code , and ( b ) must specify , or describe , who must pay the fee . ( 5 ) a fee payable under subsection ( 3 ) be recoverable summarily ( or , in Scotland , recoverable ) as a civil debt . ( 6 ) a determination may make different provision for different purpose . ( 7 ) the Secretary of State must publish a determination . ( 8 ) the Secretary of State may revise a determination . ( 9 ) if the Secretary of State revise a determination the Secretary of State must publish the determination as revise . " — ( Sir John Whittingdale . ) this amendment enable the Secretary of State to determine that a fee be payable for approval / re - approval / continue approval of a supplementary code and the amount of such a fee . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 17 - request for withdrawal of approval " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must withdraw approval of a supplementary code if — ( a ) the Secretary of State receive a notice request the withdrawal of approval of the supplementary code , and ( b ) the notice comply with any requirement impose by a determination under subsection ( 3 ) . ( 2 ) before the day on which the approval be withdraw , the Secretary of State must inform the person who give the notice of when it will be withdraw . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State may determine — ( a ) the form of a notice , ( b ) the information to be contain in or provide with the notice , ( c ) the document to be provide with the notice , ( d ) the manner in which the notice be to be submit , ( e ) who may give the notice . ( 4 ) a determination may make different provision for different purpose . ( 5 ) the Secretary of State must publish a determination . ( 6 ) the Secretary of State may revise a determination . ( 7 ) if the Secretary of State revise a determination the Secretary of State must publish the determination as revise . " — ( Sir John Whittingdale . ) this amendment enable a supplementary code to be " de - approve " , on request . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 18 - Removal of designation " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State may determine to remove the designation of a supplementary code . ( 2 ) a determination must — ( a ) be publish , and ( b ) specify when the designation be to be remove , which must be a time after the end of the period of 21 day begin with the day on which the determination be publish . " — ( Sir John Whittingdale . ) this amendment enable the Secretary of State to determine that a designate supplementary code should cease to be designate . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 19 - registration of additional service " ( 1 ) subsection ( 2 ) apply if — ( a ) a person be register in the dvs register , ( b ) the person apply for their entry in the register to be amend to record additional digital verification service that the person provide in accordance with the main code , ( c ) the person hold a certificate from an accredited conformity assessment body certify that the person provide the additional service in accordance with the main code , ( d ) the application complie with any requirement impose by a determination under section 51 , and ( e ) the person pay any fee require to be pay by a determination under section 52 ( 1 ) . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State must amend the DVS register to record that the person be also register in respect of the additional service refer to in subsection ( 1 ) . ( 3 ) for the purpose of subsection ( 1 ) ( c ) , a certificate be to be ignore if — ( a ) it have expire in accordance with its term , ( b ) it have be withdraw by the body that issue it , or ( c ) it be require to be ignore by reason of provision include in the DVS trust framework under 49 ( 10 ) . " — ( Sir John Whittingdale . ) this amendment provide for a person to apply to add service to their entry in the dvs register and require the Secretary of State to amend the register to record that a person be register in respect of the additional service . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 20 - supplementary note " ( 1 ) subsection ( 2 ) apply if — ( a ) a person hold a certificate from an accredited conformity assessment body certify that digital verification service provide by the person be provide in accordance with a recognise supplementary code , ( b ) the person apply for a note about one or more of the service to which the certificate relate to be include in the entry relate to that person in the dvs register , ( c ) the application complie with any requirement impose by a determination under section 51 , and ( d ) the person pay any fee require to be pay by a determination under section 52 ( 1 ) . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State must include a note in the entry relate to the person in the dvs register record that the person provide , in accordance with the recognise supplementary code refer to in subsection ( 1 ) , the service in respect of which the person make the application refer to in that subsection . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State may not otherwise include a note describe in subsection ( 2 ) in the DVS register . ( 4 ) for the purpose of subsection ( 1 ) ( a ) , a certificate be to be ignore if — ( a ) it have expire in accordance with its term , ( b ) it have be withdraw by the body that issue it , or ( c ) subsection ( 5 ) apply . ( 5 ) this subsection apply if — ( a ) the recognise supplementary code to which the certificate relate have be revise since the certificate be issue , ( b ) the certificate be issue before the revision to the supplementary code take effect , and ( c ) the supplementary code ( as revise ) provide — ( i ) that certificate issue before the time the revision take effect be require to be ignore , or ( ii ) that such certificate be to be ignore from a date , or from the end of a period , specify in the code and that date have pass or that period have elapse . ( 6 ) in this part , a note include in the dvs register in accordance with subsection ( 2 ) be refer to as a supplementary note . " — ( Sir John Whittingdale . ) this amendment provide for a person to apply for a note to be include in the dvs register that they provide digital verification service in accordance with a recognise supplementary code . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 21 - addition of service to supplementary note " ( 1 ) subsection ( 2 ) apply if — ( a ) a person have a supplementary note include in the dvs register , ( b ) the person apply for the note to be amend to record additional digital verification service that the person provide in accordance with a recognise supplementary code , ( c ) the person hold a certificate from an accredited conformity assessment body certify that the person provide the additional service in accordance with the recognise supplementary code refer to in paragraph ( b ) , ( d ) the application complie with any requirement impose by a determination under section 51 , and ( e ) the person pay any fee require to be pay by a determination under section 52 ( 1 ) . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State must amend the note to record that the person also provide the additional service refer to in subsection ( 1 ) in accordance with the recognise supplementary code refer to in that subsection . ( 3 ) for the purpose of subsection ( 1 ) ( c ) , a certificate be to be ignore if — ( a ) it have expire in accordance with its term , ( b ) it have be withdraw by the body that issue it , or ( c ) subsection ( 4 ) apply . ( 4 ) this subsection apply if — ( a ) the recognise supplementary code to which the certificate relate have be revise since the certificate be issue , ( b ) the certificate be issue before the revision to the supplementary code take effect , and ( c ) the supplementary code ( as revise ) provide — ( i ) that certificate issue before the time the revision take effect be require to be ignore , or ( ii ) that such certificate be to be ignore from a date , or from the end of a period , specify in the code and that date have pass or that period have elapse . " — ( Sir John Whittingdale . ) this amendment provide for a person to add service to their supplementary note in the dvs register and require the Secretary of State to amend the note to record that a person be register in respect of the additional service . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 22 - duty to remove service from the DVS register " ( 1 ) where a person be register in the dvs register in respect of digital verification service , subsection ( 2 ) apply if the person — ( a ) ask for the register to be amend so that the person be no long register in respect of one or more of those service , ( b ) cease to provide one or more of those service , or ( c ) no long hold a certificate from an accredited conformity assessment body certify that all of those service be provide in accordance with the main code . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State must amend the register to record that the person be no long register in respect of ( as the case may be ) — ( a ) the service or service mention in a request describe in subsection ( 1 ) ( a ) , ( b ) the service or service which the person have cease to provide , or ( c ) the service or service for which there be no long a certificate as describe in subsection ( 1 ) ( c ) . ( 3 ) for the purpose of subsection ( 1 ) ( c ) , a certificate be to be ignore if — ( a ) it have expire in accordance with its term , ( b ) it have be withdraw by the body that issue it , or ( c ) it be require to be ignore by reason of provision include in the DVS trust framework under section 49 ( 10 ) . " — ( Sir John Whittingdale . ) this amendment place the Secretary of State under a duty to amend the dvs register , in certain circumstance , to record that a person be no long register in respect of certain service . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 23 - duty to remove supplementary note from the DVS register " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must remove a supplementary note include in the entry in the dvs register relate to a person if — ( a ) the person ask for the note to be remove , ( b ) the person cease to provide all of the digital verification service to which the note relate , ( c ) the person no long hold a certificate from an accredited conformity assessment body certify that at least one of those digital verification service be provide in accordance with the supplementary code , or ( d ) the person continue to hold a certificate describe in paragraph ( c ) but the supplementary code be not a recognise supplementary code . ( 2 ) for the purpose of subsection ( 1 ) ( c ) and ( d ) , a certificate be to be ignore if — ( a ) it have expire in accordance with its term , ( b ) it have be withdraw by the body that issue it , or ( c ) subsection ( 3 ) apply . ( 3 ) this subsection apply if — ( a ) the supplementary code to which the certificate relate have be revise since the certificate be issue , ( b ) the certificate be issue before the revision to the supplementary code take effect , and ( c ) the supplementary code ( as revise ) provide — ( i ) that certificate issue before the time the revision take effect be require to be ignore , or ( ii ) that such certificate be to be ignore from a date , or from the end of a period , specify in the code and that date have pass or that period have elapse . " — ( Sir John Whittingdale . ) this amendment set out the circumstance in which the Secretary of State must remove a supplementary note from the dvs register . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 24 - duty to remove service from supplementary note " ( 1 ) where a person have a supplementary note include in their entry in the dvs register in respect of digital verification service , subsection ( 2 ) apply if the person — ( a ) ask for the register to be amend so that the note no long record one or more of those service , ( b ) cease to provide one or more of the service record in the note , or ( c ) no long hold a certificate from an accredited conformity assessment body certify that all of the service include in the note be provide in accordance with a supplementary code . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State must amend the supplementary note so it no long record ( as the case maA24y be ) — ( a ) the service or service mention in a request describe in subsection ( 1 ) ( a ) , ( b ) the service or service which the person have cease to provide , or ( c ) the service or service for which there be no long a certificate as describe in subsection ( 1 ) ( c ) . ( 3 ) for the purpose of subsection ( 1 ) ( c ) , a certificate be to be ignore if — ( a ) it have expire in accordance with its term , ( b ) it have be withdraw by the body that issue it , or ( c ) subsection ( 4 ) apply . ( 4 ) this subsection apply if — ( a ) the supplementary code to which the certificate relate have be revise since the certificate be issue , ( b ) the certificate be issue before the revision to the supplementary code take effect , and ( c ) the supplementary code ( as revise ) provide — ( i ) that certificate issue before the time the revision take effect be require to be ignore , or ( ii ) that such certificate be to be ignore from a date , or from the end of a period , specify in the code and that date have pass or that period have elapse . " — ( Sir John Whittingdale . ) this amendment place the Secretary of State under a duty to amend a supplementary note on the dvs register relate to a person , in certain circumstance , to remove reference to certain service from the note . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 25 - index of define term for Part 2 " the table below list provision that define or otherwise explain term define for the purpose of this Part of this Act . Term Provision accredit conformity assessment body section 50 ( 7 ) approve supplementary code section ( approval of a supplementary code ) ( 6 ) designate supplementary code section ( designation of a supplementary code ) ( 3 ) digital verification service section 48 ( 2 ) the DVS register section 50 ( 2 ) the DVS trust framework section 49 ( 2 ) ( a ) the main code section 49 ( 2 ) ( b ) recognise supplementary code section ( List of recognise supplementary code ) ( 2 ) supplementary code section 49 ( 2 ) ( c ) supplementary note section ( supplementary note ) ( 6 ) " — ( Sir John Whittingdale . ) this amendment provide an index of term which be define in Part 2 . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 26 - power relate to verification of identity or status " ( 1 ) in section 15 of the Immigration , Asylum and Nationality Act 2006 ( penalty for employ a person subject to immigration control ) , after subsection ( 7 ) insert — " ( 8 ) an order under subsection ( 3 ) contain provision describe in subsection ( 7 ) ( a ) , ( b ) or ( c ) may , in particular — ( a ) specify a document generate by a dvs - register person or a dvs - register person of a specified description ; ( b ) specify a document which be provide to such a person in order to generate such a document ; ( c ) specify step involve the use of service provide by such a person . ( 9 ) in subsection ( 8 ) , " dvs - register person " mean a person who be register in the DVS register maintain under Part 2 of the Data Protection and Digital Information Act 2024 ( " the DVS register " ) . ( 10 ) an order under subsection ( 3 ) which specify a description of dvs - register person may do so by , for example , describe a dvs - register person whose entry in the DVS register include a note relate to specify service ( see section ( supplementary note ) of the Data Protection and Digital Information Act 2024 ) . " ( 2 ) in section 34 of the Immigration Act 2014 ( requirement which may be prescribe for the purpose of provision about occupy premise under a residential tenancy agreement ) — ( a ) in subsection ( 1 ) — ( i ) in paragraph ( a ) , after " occupier " insert " , a dvs - register person or a dvs - register person of a prescribed description " , ( ii ) in paragraph ( b ) , after " occupier " insert " , a dvs - register person or a dvs - register person of a prescribed description " , and ( iii ) in paragraph ( c ) , at the end insert " , include step involve the use of service provide by a dvs - register person or a dvs - register person of a prescribed description " , and ( b ) after that subsection insert — " ( 1A ) an order prescribing requirement for the purpose of this chapter which contain provision describe in subsection ( 1 ) ( a ) or ( b ) may , in particular — ( a ) prescribe a document generate by a dvs - register person or a dvs - register person of a prescribed description ; ( b ) prescribe a document which be provide to such a person in order to generate such a document . ( 1b ) in subsection ( 1 ) and ( 1A ) , " dvs - register person " mean a person who be register in the DVS register maintain under Part 2 of the Data Protection and Digital Information Act 2024 ( " the DVS register " ) . ( 1c ) an order prescribing requirement for the purpose of this chapter which prescribe a description of dvs - register person may do so by , for example , describe a dvs - register person whose entry in the DVS register include a note relate to prescribe service ( see section ( supplementary note ) of the Data Protection and Digital Information Act 2024 ) . " ( 3 ) in Schedule 6 to the Immigration Act 2016 ( illegal work compliance order etc ) , after paragraph 5 insert — " prescribed check and document 5a ( 1 ) regulation under paragraph 5 ( 6 ) ( b ) or ( c ) may , in particular — ( a ) prescribe check carry out use service provide by a dvs - register person or a dvs - register person of a prescribed description ; ( b ) prescribe document generate by such a person ; ( c ) prescribe document which be provide to such a person in order to generate such document . ( 2 ) in sub - paragraph ( 1 ) , " dvs - register person " mean a person who be register in the DVS register maintain under Part 2 of the Data Protection and Digital Information Act 2024 ( " the DVS register " ) . ( 3 ) regulation under paragraph 5 ( 6 ) ( b ) or ( c ) which prescribe a description of dvs - register person may do so by , for example , describe a dvs - register person whose entry in the DVS register include a note relate to prescribe service ( see section ( supplementary note ) of the Data Protection and Digital Information Act 2024 ) . " " — ( Sir John Whittingdale . ) this amendment contain amendment of power to make subordinate legislation so they can be exercise so as to make provision by reference to person register in the dvs register establish under Part 2 of the Bill . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 27 - interface body " ( 1 ) this section be about the provision that regulation under section 66 or 68 may ( among other thing ) contain about body with one or more of the follow task — ( a ) establish a facility or service use , or capable of be use , for provide , publish or otherwise process customer datum or business datum or for take action describe in section 66 ( 3 ) ( an " interface " ) ; ( b ) set standard ( " interface standard " ) , or make other arrangement ( " interface arrangement " ) , for use by other person when establish , maintain or manage an interface ; ( c ) maintain or manage an interface , interface standard or interface arrangement . ( 2 ) such body be refer to in this part as " interface body " . ( 3 ) the regulation may — ( a ) require a data holder , an authorised person or a third party recipient to set up an interface body ; ( b ) make provision about the type of body to be set up . ( 4 ) in relation to an interface body ( whether or not it be require to be set up by regulation under section 66 or 68 ) , the regulation may — ( a ) make provision about the body ' s composition and governance ; ( b ) make provision require a data holder , an authorised person or a third party recipient to provide , or arrange for , assistance for the body ; ( c ) impose other requirement relate to the body on a person require to set it up or to provide , or arrange for , assistance for the body ; ( d ) make provision require the body to carry on all or part of a task describe in subsection ( 1 ) ; ( e ) make provision require the body to do other thing in connection with its interface , interface standard or interface arrangement ; ( f ) make provision about how the body carry out its function ( such as , for example , provision about the body ' s objective or matter to be take into account by the body ) ; ( g ) confer power on the body for the purpose of monitor use of its interface , interface standard or interface arrangement ( " monitor power " ) ( and see section 71 for provision about enforcement of requirement impose in exercise of those power ) ; ( h ) make provision for the body to arrange for its monitor power to be exercise by another person ; ( i ) make provision about the right of person affect by the exercise of the body ' s function under the regulation , include ( among other thing ) — ( i ) provision about the review of decision make in exercise of those function ; ( ii ) provision about appeal to a court or tribunal ; ( j ) make provision about complaint , include provision require the body to implement procedure for the handling of complaint ; ( k ) make provision enable or require the body to publish , or provide to a specified person , specify document or information relate to its interface , interface standard or interface arrangement ; ( l ) make provision enable or require the body to produce guidance about how it propose to exercise its function under the regulation , to publish the guidance and to provide copy to specify person . ( 5 ) the monitor power that may be confer on an interface body include power to require the provision of document or information ( but such power be subject to the restriction in section 72 as well as any restriction include in the regulation ) . ( 6 ) example of facility or service refer to in subsection ( 1 ) include dashboard service , other electronic communication service and application programming interface . ( 7 ) in subsection ( 4 ) ( b ) and ( c ) , the reference to assistance include actual or contingent financial assistance ( such as , for example , a grant , loan , guarantee or indemnity or buy a company ' s share capital ) . " — ( Sir John Whittingdale . ) this new clause enable regulation under Part 3 to make provision about body provide facility or service use for provide , publish or process customer datum or business datum , or set standard or make other arrangement in connection with such facility or service . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 28 - the FCA and financial service interface " ( 1 ) the Treasury may by regulation make provision enable or require the Financial Conduct Authority ( " the FCA " ) to make rule — ( a ) require financial service provider describe in the regulation to use a prescribed interface , or prescribe interface standard or interface arrangement , when provide or receive customer datum or business datum which be require to be provide by or to the financial service provider by data regulation ; ( b ) require person describe in the regulation to use a prescribed interface , or prescribe interface standard or interface arrangement , when the person , in the course of a business , receive , from a financial service provider , customer datum or business datum which be require to be provide to the person by data regulation ; ( c ) impose interface - relate requirement on a description of person fall within subsection ( 2 ) , and such rule be refer to in this part as " FCA interface rule " . ( 2 ) the follow person fall within this subsection — ( a ) an interface body link to the financial service sector on which requirement be impose by regulation make in reliance on section ( interface body ) ; ( b ) a person require by regulation make in reliance on section ( interface body ) to set up an interface body link to the financial service sector ; ( c ) a person who use an interface , interface standard or interface arrangement link to the financial service sector or who be require to do so by data regulation or rule make by virtue of regulation under subsection ( 1 ) ( a ) or ( b ) . ( 3 ) for the purpose of this section , requirement be interface - related if they relate to — ( a ) the composition , governance or activity of an interface body link to the financial service sector , ( b ) an interface , interface standard or interface arrangement link to the financial service sector , or ( c ) the use of such an interface , such interface standard or such interface arrangement . ( 4 ) for the purpose of this section — ( a ) an interface body be link to the financial service sector to the extent that its interface , interface standard or interface arrangement be link to the financial service sector ; ( b ) interface , interface standard and interface arrangement be link to the financial service sector to the extent that they be use , or intend to be use , by financial service provider ( whether or not they be use , or intend to be use , by other person ) . ( 5 ) the Treasury may by regulation make provision enable or require the FCA to impose requirement on a person to whom FCA interface rule apply ( refer to in this part as " FCA additional requirement " ) where the FCA consider it appropriate to impose the requirement — ( a ) in response to a failure , or likely failure , by the person to comply with an FCA interface rule or FCA additional requirement , or ( b ) in order to advance a purpose which the FCA be require to advance when exercise function confer by regulation under this section ( see section ( the FCA and financial service interface : supplementary ) ( 3 ) ( a ) ) . ( 6 ) Regulations under subsection ( 5 ) may , for example , provide for the FCA to impose requirement by give a notice or direction . ( 7 ) the restriction in section 72 apply in connection with FCA interface rule and FCA additional requirement as they apply in connection with regulation under this Part . ( 8 ) in section 72 as so apply — ( a ) the reference in subsection ( 1 ) ( b ) and ( 8 ) to an enforcer include the FCA , and ( b ) the reference in subsection ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) to data regulation include FCA interface rule and FCA additional requirement . ( 9 ) in this section — " financial service provider " mean a person provide financial service ; " prescribed " mean prescribe in FCA interface rule . " — ( Sir John Whittingdale . ) this new clause and new clause NC29 enable the Treasury , by regulation , to confer power on the Financial Conduct Authority to impose requirement ( by mean of rule or otherwise ) on interface body use by the financial service sector and on person participate in , or use facility and service provide by , such body . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 29 - the FCA and financial service interface : supplementary " ( 1 ) this section be about provision that regulation under section ( the FCA and financial service interface ) may or must ( among other thing ) contain . ( 2 ) the regulation — ( a ) may enable or require the FCA to impose interface - relate requirement that could be impose by regulation make in reliance on section ( interface body ) ( 4 ) or ( 5 ) , but ( b ) may not enable or require the FCA to require a person to set up an interface body . ( 3 ) the regulation must — ( a ) require the FCA , so far as be reasonably possible , to exercise function confer by the regulation in a manner which be compatible with , or which advance , one or more specified purpose ; ( b ) specify one or more matter to which the FCA must have regard when exercise function confer by the regulation ; ( c ) if they enable or require the FCA to make rule , make provision about the procedure for make rule , include provision require such consultation with person likely to be affect by the rule or representative of such person as the FCA consider appropriate . ( 4 ) the regulation may — ( a ) require the FCA to carry out an analysis of the cost and benefit that will arise if propose rule be make or propose change be make to rule and make provision about what the analysis must include ; ( b ) require the FCA to publish rule or change to rule and to provide copy to specify person ; ( c ) make provision about the effect of rule , include provision about circumstance in which rule be void and circumstance in which a person be not to be take to have contravene a rule ; ( d ) make provision enable or require the FCA to modify or waive rule as they apply to a particular case ; ( e ) make provision about the procedure for impose FCA additional requirement ; ( f ) make provision enable or require the FCA to produce guidance about how it propose to exercise its function under the regulation , to publish the guidance and to provide copy to specify person . ( 5 ) the regulation may enable or require the FCA to impose the follow type of requirement on a person as FCA additional requirement — ( a ) a requirement to review the person ' s conduct ; ( b ) a requirement to take remedial action ; ( c ) a requirement to make redress for loss or damage suffer by other as a result of the person ' s conduct . ( 6 ) the regulation may enable or require the FCA to make rule require a person fall within section ( the FCA and financial service interface ) ( 2 ) ( b ) or ( c ) to pay fee to an interface body for the purpose of meeting expense incur , or to be incur , by such a body in perform duty , or exercise power , impose or confer by regulation under this part or by rule make by virtue of regulation under section ( the FCA and financial service interface ) . ( 7 ) Regulations make in reliance on subsection ( 6 ) — ( a ) may enable rule to provide for the amount of a fee to be an amount which be intend to exceed the cost of the thing in respect of which the fee be charge ; ( b ) must require rule to provide for the amount of a fee to be — ( i ) a prescribed amount or an amount determine in accordance with the rule , or ( ii ) an amount not exceed such an amount ; ( c ) may enable or require rule to provide for the amount , or maximum amount , of a fee to increase at specify time and by — ( i ) a prescribed amount or an amount determine in accordance with the rule , or ( ii ) an amount not exceed such an amount ; ( d ) if they enable rule to enable a person to determine an amount , must require rule to require the person to publish information about the amount and how it be determine ; ( e ) may enable or require rule to make provision about — ( i ) interest on any unpaid amount ; ( ii ) the recovery of unpaid amount . ( 8 ) in this section — " interface - relate " have the meaning give in section ( the FCA and financial service interface ) ; " prescribed " mean prescribe in FCA interface rule . ( 9 ) the reference in subsection ( 5 ) ( c ) to make redress include — ( a ) pay interest , and ( b ) provide redress in the form of a remedy or relief which could not be award in legal proceeding . " — ( Sir John Whittingdale . ) see the explanatory statement for new clause NC28 . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 30 - the FCA and financial service interface : penalty and levy " ( 1 ) subsection ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) be about the provision that regulation make by the Treasury under this Part provide for the FCA to enforce requirement under FCA interface rule may ( among other thing ) contain in relation to financial penalty . ( 2 ) the regulation may require or enable the FCA — ( a ) to set the amount or maximum amount of , or of an increase in , a penalty impose in respect of failure to comply with a requirement impose by the FCA in exercise of a power confer by regulation under section ( the FCA and financial service interface ) ( whether impose by mean of FCA interface rule or an FCA additional requirement ) , or ( b ) to set the method for determine such an amount . ( 3 ) Regulations make in reliance on subsection ( 2 ) — ( a ) must require the FCA to produce and publish a statement of its policy with respect to the amount of the penalty ; ( b ) may require the policy to include specify matter ; ( c ) may make provision about the procedure for produce the statement ; ( d ) may require copy of the statement to be provide to specify person ; ( e ) may require the FCA to have regard to a statement publish in accordance with the regulation . ( 4 ) the Treasury may by regulation — ( a ) impose , or provide for the FCA to impose , a levy on data holder , authorise person or third party recipient for the purpose of meet all or part of the expense incur , or to be incur , during a period by the FCA , or by a person act on the FCA ' s behalf , in perform duty , or exercise power , impose or confer on the FCA by regulation under section ( the FCA and financial service interface ) , and ( b ) make provision about how fund raise by mean of the levy must or may be use . ( 5 ) regulation under subsection ( 4 ) may only provide for a levy in respect of expense of the FCA to be impose on person that appear to the Treasury to be capable of be directly affect by the exercise of some or all of the function confer on the FCA by regulation under section ( the FCA and financial service interface ) . ( 6 ) section 75 ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) apply in relation to regulation under subsection ( 4 ) of this section as they apply in relation to regulation under section 75 ( 1 ) . " — ( Sir John Whittingdale . ) this new clause enable the Treasury , by regulation , to confer power on the Financial Conduct Authority to set the amount of certain penalty . it also enable the Treasury to impose a levy in respect of expense incur by that Authority . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 31 - liability in damage " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State or the Treasury may by regulation provide that a person list in subsection ( 2 ) be not liable in damage for anything do or omit to be do in the exercise of function confer by regulation under this Part . ( 2 ) those person be — ( a ) a public authority ; ( b ) a member , officer or member of staff of a public authority ; ( c ) a person who could be hold vicariously liable for thing do or omit by a public authority . ( 3 ) regulation under this section may not — ( a ) make provision remove liability for an act or omission which be show to have be in bad faith , or ( b ) make provision so as to prevent an award of damage make in respect of an act or omission on the ground that the act or omission be unlawful as a result of section 6 ( 1 ) of the Human Rights Act 1998 . " — ( Sir John Whittingdale . ) this new clause enable regulation under Part 3 to provide that certain person be not liable in damage when exercise function under such regulation . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 32 - other data provision " ( 1 ) this section be about case in which subordinate legislation other than regulation under this Part contain provision describe in section 66 ( 1 ) to ( 3 ) or 68 ( 1 ) to ( 2A ) ( " other datum provision " ) . ( 2 ) the regulation - make power under this Part may be exercise so as to make , in connection with the other datum provision , any provision that they could be exercise to make as part of , or in connection with , provision make under section 66 ( 1 ) to ( 3 ) or 68 ( 1 ) to ( 2A ) that be equivalent to the other datum provision . ( 3 ) in this part , reference to " data regulation " include regulation make in reliance on subsection ( 2 ) to the extent that they make provision describe in section 66 to 70 or ( interface body ) . ( 4 ) in this section , " subordinate legislation " have the same meaning as in the Interpretation Act 1978 ( see section 21 of that Act ) . " — ( Sir John Whittingdale . ) this new clause enable the regulation - make power under Part 3 to be use to supplement exist subordinate legislation which require customer datum or business datum to be provide to customer and other . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 33 - duty to notify the Commissioner of personal datum breach : time period " ( 1 ) in regulation 5a of the PEC Regulations ( personal datum breach ) — ( a ) in paragraph ( 2 ) , after " delay " insert " and , where feasible , not later than 72 hour after have become aware of it " , and ( b ) after paragraph ( 3 ) insert — " ( 3A ) where notification under paragraph ( 2 ) be not make within 72 hour , it must be accompany by reason for the delay . " ( 2 ) in article 2 of Commission Regulation ( EU ) no 611 / 2013 of 24 June 2013 on the measure applicable to the notification of personal datum breach under Directive 2002 / 58 / EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on privacy and electronic communication ( notification to the Information Commissioner ) — ( a ) in paragraph 2 — ( i ) in the first subparagraph , for the word from " no " to " feasible " substitute " without undue delay and , where feasible , not later than 72 hour after have become aware of it " , and ( ii ) in the second subparagraph , after " shall " insert " , subject to paragraph 3 , " , and ( b ) for paragraph 3 substitute — " 3 . to the extent that the information set out in Annex 1 be not available to be include in the notification , it may be provide in phase without undue further delay . " " — ( Sir John Whittingdale . ) this adjust the period within which the Information Commissioner must be notify of a personal datum breach . it also insert a duty ( into the PEC Regulations ) to give reason for not notify within 72 hour and adjust the duty ( in Commission Regulation ( EU ) no 611 / 2013 ) to provide accompany information . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 34 - Power to require information for social security purpose " in Schedule ( Power to require information for social security purpose ) — ( a ) part 1 amend the Social Security Administration Act 1992 to make provision about a power for the Secretary of State to obtain information for social security purpose ; ( b ) part 2 amend the Social Security Administration ( Northern Ireland ) Act 1992 to make provision about a power for the Department for Communities to obtain information for such purpose ; ( c ) part 3 make related amendment of the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 . " — ( Sir John Whittingdale . ) this new clause introduce a new Schedule ns1 which amend social security legislation to make provision about a new power for the Secretary of State or , in Northern Ireland , the Department for Communities , to obtain information for social security purpose . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 35 - retention of information by provider of internet service in connection with death of child " ( 1 ) the Online Safety Act 2023 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 100 ( power to require information ) — ( a ) omit subsection ( 7 ) ; ( b ) after subsection ( 8 ) insert — " ( 8a ) the power to give a notice confer by subsection ( 1 ) do not include power to require processing of personal datum that would contravene the data protection legislation ( but in determine whether processing of personal datum would do so , the duty impose by the notice be to be take into account ) . " ( 3 ) in section 101 ( information in connection with investigation into death of child ) — ( a ) before subsection ( 1 ) insert — " ( A1 ) Subsection ( d1 ) apply if a senior coroner ( in England and Wales ) , a procurator fiscal ( in Scotland ) or a coroner ( in Northern Ireland ) ( " the investigate authority " ) — ( a ) notifie OFCOM that — ( i ) they be conduct an investigation , or be due to conduct an investigation , in connection with the death of a child , and ( ii ) they suspect that the child may have take their own life , and ( b ) provide OFCOM with the detail in subsection ( b1 ) . ( b1 ) the detail be — ( a ) the name of the child who have die , ( b ) the child ' s date of birth , ( c ) any email address use by the child ( so far as the investigate authority know ) , and ( d ) if any regulated service have be bring to the attention of the investigate authority as be of interest in connection with the child ' s death , the name of the service . ( c1 ) where this subsection apply , OFCOM — ( a ) must give a notice to the provider of a service within subsection ( e1 ) require the provider to ensure the retention of information relate to the use of the service by the child who have die , and ( b ) may give a notice to any other relevant person require the person to ensure the retention of information relate to the use of a service within subsection ( e1 ) by that child . ( d1 ) the reference in subsection ( C1 ) to ensure the retention of information relate to the child ' s use of a service include take all reasonable step , without delay , to prevent the deletion of such information by the routine operation of system or process . ( e1 ) a service be within this subsection if it be — ( a ) a regulated service of a kind describe in regulation make by the Secretary of State , or ( b ) a regulated service notify to OFCOM by the investigate authority as describe in subsection ( b1 ) ( d ) . ( f1 ) a notice under subsection ( C1 ) may require information describe in that subsection to be retain only if it be information — ( a ) of a kind which OFCOM have power to require under a notice under subsection ( 1 ) ( see , in particular , subsection ( 2 ) ( a ) to ( d ) ) , or ( b ) which a person might need to retain to enable the person to provide information in response to a notice under subsection ( 1 ) ( if such a notice be give ) . ( G1 ) OFCOM must share with the investigate authority any information they receive in response to requirement mention in section 102 ( 5A ) ( d ) that be include in a notice under subsection ( C1 ) . " ( b ) in subsection ( 3 ) , for " power confer by subsection ( 1 ) include " substitute " power confer by this section include " ; ( c ) after subsection ( 5 ) insert — " ( 5a ) the power to give a notice confer by this section do not include power to require processing of personal datum that would contravene the data protection legislation ( but in determine whether processing of personal datum would do so , the duty impose by the notice be to be take into account ) . " ( 4 ) in section 102 ( information notice ) — ( a ) in subsection ( 1 ) , for " 101 ( 1 ) " substitute " 101 ( c1 ) or ( 1 ) " ; ( b ) in subsection ( 3 ) — ( i ) after " information notice " insert " under section 100 ( 1 ) or 101 ( 1 ) " , ( ii ) omit " and " at the end of paragraph ( c ) , and ( iii ) after paragraph ( c ) insert — " ( ca ) specify when the information must be provide ( which may be on or by a specified date , within a specified period , or at specify interval ) , and " ; ( c ) omit subsection ( 4 ) ; ( d ) after subsection ( 5 ) insert — " ( 5a ) an information notice under section 101 ( C1 ) must — ( a ) specify or describe the information to be retain , ( b ) specify why OFCOM require the information to be retain , ( c ) require the information to be retain for the period of one year begin with the date of the notice , ( d ) require the person to whom the notice be give — ( i ) if the child to whom the notice relate use the service in question , to notify OFCOM by a specified date of step take to ensure the retention of information ; ( ii ) if the child do not use the service , or the person do not hold any information of the kind require , to notify OFCOM of that fact by a specified date , and ( e ) contain information about the consequence of not comply with the notice . ( 5b ) if OFCOM give an information notice to a person under section 101 ( C1 ) , they may , in response to information receive from the investigate authority , extend the period for which the person be require to retain information by a maximum period of six month . ( 5c ) the power confer by subsection ( 5b ) be exercisable — ( a ) by give the person a notice vary the notice under section 101 ( C1 ) and state the further period for which information must be retain and the reason for the extension ; ( b ) any number of time . " ; ( e ) after subsection ( 9 ) insert — " ( 9a ) OFCOM must cancel an information notice under section 101 ( C1 ) by notice to the person to whom it be give if advise by the investigate authority that the information in question no long need to be retain . " ( f ) in subsection ( 10 ) , after the definition of " information " insert — " " the investigate authority " have the same meaning as in section 101 ; " . ( 5 ) in section 109 ( offence in connection with information notice ) — ( a ) in subsection ( 2 ) ( b ) , for " all reasonable step " substitute " all of the step that it be reasonable , and reasonably practicable , to take " ; ( b ) after subsection ( 6 ) insert — " ( 6a ) a person who be give an information notice under section 101 ( c1 ) commit an offence if — ( a ) the person delete or alter , or cause or permit the deletion or alteration of , any information require by the notice to be retain , and ( b ) the person ' s intention be to prevent the information be available , or ( as the case may be ) to prevent it be available in unaltered form , for the purpose of any official investigation into the death of the child to whom the notice relate . ( 6b ) for the purpose of subsection ( 6a ) information have be delete if it be irrecoverable ( however that occur ) . " ( 6 ) in section 110 ( senior manager ' liability : information offence ) — ( a ) after subsection ( 6 ) insert — " ( 6a ) an individual name as a senior manager of an entity commit an offence if — ( a ) the entity commit an offence under section 109 ( 6a ) ( deletion etc of information ) , and ( b ) the individual have fail to take all reasonable step to prevent that offence be commit . " ; ( b ) in subsection ( 7 ) , for " or ( 6 ) " substitute " , ( 6 ) or ( 6a ) " . ( 7 ) in section 113 ( penalty for information offence ) , in subsection ( 2 ) — ( a ) for " ( 4 ) or ( 5 ) " substitute " ( 4 ) , ( 5 ) or ( 6a ) " ; ( b ) for " ( 5 ) or ( 6 ) " substitute " ( 5 ) , ( 6 ) or ( 6a ) " . ( 8 ) in section 114 ( co - operation and disclosure of information : overseas regulator ) , in subsection ( 7 ) , omit the definition of " the data protection legislation " . ( 9 ) in section 225 ( parliamentary procedure for regulation ) , in subsection ( 10 ) , after paragraph ( c ) insert — " ( ca ) regulation under section 101 ( e1 ) ( a ) , " ( 10 ) in section 236 ( 1 ) ( interpretation ) — ( a ) after the definition of " country " insert — " " the data protection legislation " have the same meaning as in the Data Protection Act 2018 ( see section 3 ( 9 ) of that Act ) ; " ; ( b ) in the definition of " information notice " , for " 101 ( 1 ) " substitute " 101 ( c1 ) or ( 1 ) " . ( 11 ) in section 237 ( index of define term ) , after the entry for " CSEA content " insert — " the data protection legislation section 236 " . " — ( Sir John Whittingdale . ) this new clause amend the Online Safety Act 2023 to enable OFCOM to give internet service provider a notice require they to retain information in connection with an investigation by a coroner ( or , in Scotland , procurator fiscal ) into the death of a child suspect to have take their own life . the new clause also create related offence . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 36 - retention of biometric datum and recordable offence " ( 1 ) Part 1 of the Counter - Terrorism Act 2008 ( power to gather and share information ) be amend in accordance with subsection ( 2 ) to ( 10 ) . ( 2 ) in section 18a ( 3 ) ( retention of material : general ) , after " recordable offence " insert " or recordable - equivalent offence " . ( 3 ) section 18e ( supplementary provision ) be amend in accordance with subsection ( 4 ) to ( 10 ) . ( 4 ) in subsection ( 1 ) , after the definition of " recordable offence " insert — " " recordable - equivalent offence " mean an offence under the law of a country or territory outside England and Wales and Northern Ireland where the act constitute the offence would constitute a recordable offence if do in England and Wales or Northern Ireland ( whether or not the act constitute such an offence when the person be convict ) ; " . ( 5 ) in subsection ( 3 ) , in the word before paragraph ( a ) , after " offence " insert " in England and Wales or Northern Ireland " . ( 6 ) after subsection ( 5 ) insert — " ( 5a ) for the purpose of section 18a , a person be to be treat as have be convict of an offence in a country or territory outside England and Wales and Northern Ireland if , in respect of such an offence , a court exercise jurisdiction under the law of that country or territory have make a finding equivalent to — ( a ) a finding that the person be not guilty by reason of insanity , or ( b ) a finding that the person be under a disability and do the act charge against the person in respect of the offence . " ( 7 ) in subsection ( 6 ) ( a ) — ( a ) after " convict " insert " — ( i ) ' " , and ( b ) after " offence , " insert " or ( ii ) in a country or territory outside England and Wales and Northern Ireland , of a recordable - equivalent offence , " . ( 8 ) in subsection ( 6 ) ( b ) — ( a ) omit " of a recordable offence " , and ( b ) for " a recordable offence , other than a qualify offence " substitute " an offence , other than a qualify offence or qualifying - equivalent offence " . ( 9 ) in subsection ( 7 ) , for " subsection ( 6 ) " substitute " this section " . ( 10 ) after subsection ( 7 ) insert — " ( 7a ) in subsection ( 6 ) , " qualifying - equivalent offence " mean an offence under the law of a country or territory outside England and Wales and Northern Ireland where the act constitute the offence would constitute a qualifying offence if do in England and Wales or Northern Ireland ( whether or not the act constitute such an offence when the person be convict ) . " ( 11 ) the amendment make by this section apply only in connection with the retention of section 18 material that be or be obtain or acquire by a law enforcement authority — ( a ) on or after the commencement day , or ( b ) in the period of 3 year end immediately before the commencement day . ( 12 ) subsection ( 13 ) of this section apply where — ( a ) at the beginning of the commencement day , a law enforcement authority have section 18 material which it obtain or acquire in the period of 3 year end immediately before the commencement day , ( b ) at a time before the commencement day ( a " pre - commencement time " ) , the law enforcement authority be require by section 18 ( 4 ) of the Counter - Terrorism Act 2008 to destroy the material , and ( c ) at the pre - commencement time , the law enforcement authority could have retain the material under section 18a of the Counter - Terrorism Act 2008 , as it have effect take account of the amendment make by subsection ( 2 ) to ( 10 ) of this section , if those amendment have be in force . ( 13 ) where this subsection apply — ( a ) the law enforcement authority be to be treat as not have be require to destroy the material at the pre - commencement time , but ( b ) the material may not be use in evidence against the person to whom the material relate — ( i ) in criminal proceeding in England and Wales , Northern Ireland or Scotland in relation to an offence where those proceeding , or other criminal proceeding in relation to the person and the offence , be institute before the commencement day , or ( ii ) in criminal proceeding in any other country or territory . ( 14 ) in this section — " the commencement day " mean the day on which this Act be pass ; " law enforcement authority " have the meaning give by section 18e ( 1 ) of the Counter - Terrorism Act 2008 ; " section 18 material " have the meaning give by section 18 ( 2 ) of that Act . ( 15 ) for the purpose of this section , proceeding in relation to an offence be institute — ( a ) in England and Wales , when they be institute for the purpose of Part 1 of the Prosecution of Offences Act 1985 ( see section 15 ( 2 ) of that Act ) ; ( b ) in Northern Ireland , when they be institute for the purpose of Part 2 of the Justice ( Northern Ireland ) Act 2002 ( see section 44 ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) of that Act ) ; ( c ) in Scotland , when they be institute for the purpose of Part 3 of the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 ( see section 151 ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) of that Act ) . " — ( Sir John Whittingdale . ) this new clause enable a law enforcement authority to retain fingerprint and dna profile where a person have be convict of an offence equivalent to a recordable offence in a jurisdiction outside England and Wales and Northern Ireland . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 37 - retention of pseudonymise biometric datum " ( 1 ) Part 1 of the Counter - Terrorism Act 2008 ( power to gather and share information ) be amend in accordance with subsection ( 2 ) to ( 6 ) . ( 2 ) section 18a ( retention of material : general ) be amend in accordance with subsection ( 3 ) to ( 5 ) . ( 3 ) in subsection ( 1 ) , for " subsection ( 5 ) " substitute " subsection ( 4 ) to ( 9 ) " . ( 4 ) in subsection ( 4 ) ( a ) , after " relate " insert " ( a " pseudonymise form " ) " . ( 5 ) after subsection ( 6 ) insert — " ( 7 ) section 18 material which be not a dna sample may be retain indefinitely by a law enforcement authority if — ( a ) the authority obtain or acquire the material directly or indirectly from an overseas law enforcement authority , ( b ) the authority obtain or acquire the material in a form which include information which identify the person to whom the material relate , ( c ) as soon as reasonably practicable after obtain or acquire the material , the authority take the step necessary for it to hold the material in a pseudonymise form , and ( d ) have take those step , the law enforcement authority continue to hold the material in a pseudonymise form . ( 8 ) in a case where section 18 material be be retain by a law enforcement authority under subsection ( 7 ) , if — ( a ) the law enforcement authority cease to hold the material in a pseudonymise form , and ( b ) the material relate to a person who have no previous conviction or only one exempt conviction , the material may be retain by the law enforcement authority until the end of the retention period specify in subsection ( 9 ) . ( 9 ) the retention period be the period of 3 year begin with the date on which the law enforcement authority first cease to hold the material in a pseudonymise form . " ( 6 ) in section 18e ( 1 ) ( supplementary provision ) — ( a ) in the definition of " law enforcement authority " , for paragraph ( d ) substitute — " ( d ) an overseas law enforcement authority ; " , and ( b ) after that definition insert — " " overseas law enforcement authority " mean a person form or exist under the law of a country or territory outside the United Kingdom so far as exercise function which — ( a ) correspond to those of a police force , or ( b ) otherwise involve the investigation or prosecution of offence ; " . ( 7 ) the amendment make by this section apply only in connection with the retention of section 18 material that be or be obtain or acquire by a law enforcement authority — ( a ) on or after the commencement day , or ( b ) in the period of 3 year end immediately before the commencement day . ( 8 ) subsection ( 9 ) to ( 12 ) of this section apply where , at the beginning of the commencement day , a law enforcement authority have section 18 material which it obtain or acquire in the period of 3 year end immediately before the commencement day . ( 9 ) where the law enforcement authority hold the material in a pseudonymise form at the beginning of the commencement day , the authority be to be treat for the purpose of section 18a ( 7 ) ( c ) and ( d ) of the Counter - Terrorism Act 2008 as have — ( a ) take the step necessary for it to hold the material in a pseudonymise form as soon as reasonably practicable after obtain or acquire the material , and ( b ) continue to hold the material in a pseudonymise form until the commencement day . ( 10 ) where the law enforcement authority do not hold the material in a pseudonymise form at the beginning of the commencement day , the authority be to be treat for the purpose of section 18a ( 7 ) ( c ) of the Counter - Terrorism Act 2008 as take the step necessary for it to hold the material in a pseudonymise form as soon as reasonably practicable after obtain or acquire the material if it take those step on , or as soon as reasonably practicable after , the commencement day . ( 11 ) subsection ( 12 ) of this section apply where , at a time before the commencement day ( a " pre - commencement time " ) , the law enforcement authority be require by section 18 ( 4 ) of the Counter - Terrorism Act 2008 to destroy the material but — ( a ) at the pre - commencement time , the law enforcement authority could have retain the material under section 18a ( 7 ) to ( 9 ) of the Counter - Terrorism Act 2008 ( as insert by this section ) if those provision have be in force , or ( b ) on or after the commencement day , the law enforcement authority may retain the material under those provision by virtue of subsection ( 9 ) or ( 10 ) of this section . ( 12 ) where this subsection apply — ( a ) the law enforcement authority be to be treat as not have be require to destroy the material at the pre - commencement time , but ( b ) the material may not be use in evidence against the person to whom the material relate — ( i ) in criminal proceeding in England and Wales , Northern Ireland or Scotland in relation to an offence where those proceeding , or other criminal proceeding in relation to the person and the offence , be institute before the commencement day , or ( ii ) in criminal proceeding in any other country or territory . ( 13 ) in this section — " the commencement day " , " law enforcement authority " and " section 18 material " have the meaning give in section ( retention of biometric datum and recordable offence ) ( 14 ) ; " institute " , in relation to proceeding , have the meaning give in section ( retention of biometric datum and recordable offence ) ( 15 ) ; " in a pseudonymise form " have the meaning give by section 18a ( 4 ) and ( 10 ) of the Counter - Terrorism Act 2008 ( as amend or insert by this section ) . " — ( Sir John Whittingdale . ) this new clause enable a law enforcement authority to retain fingerprint and dna profile where , as soon as reasonably practicable after acquire or obtain they , the authority take the step necessary for it to hold the material in a form which do not include information which identify the person to whom the material relate . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 38 - retention of biometric datum from INTERPOL " ( 1 ) Part 1 of the Counter - Terrorism Act 2008 ( power to gather and share information ) be amend in accordance with subsection ( 2 ) to ( 4 ) . ( 2 ) in section 18 ( 4 ) ( destruction of national security material not subject to exist statutory restriction ) , after " 18a " insert " , 18aa " . ( 3 ) after section 18a insert — " 18AA Retention of material from INTERPOL ( 1 ) this section apply to section 18 material which be not a dna sample where the law enforcement authority obtain or acquire the material as part of a request for assistance , or a notification of a threat , send to the United Kingdom via interpol ' s system . ( 2 ) the law enforcement authority may retain the material until the National Central Bureau inform the authority that the request or notification have be cancel or withdraw . ( 3 ) if the law enforcement authority be the National Central Bureau , it may retain the material until it become aware that the request or notification have be cancel or withdraw . ( 4 ) in this section — " INTERPOL " mean the organisation call the International Criminal Police Organization - INTERPOL ; " the National Central Bureau " mean the body appoint for the time be in accordance with INTERPOL ' s constitution to serve as the United Kingdom ' s National Central Bureau . ( 5 ) the reference in subsection ( 1 ) to material obtain or acquire as part of a request or notification include material obtain or acquire as part of a communication , send to the United Kingdom via interpol ' s system , correct , update or otherwise supplement the request or notification . 18ab retention of material from INTERPOL : supplementary ( 1 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation amend section 18AA to make such change as the Secretary of State consider appropriate in consequence of — ( a ) change to the name of the organisation which , when section 18AA be enact , be call the International Criminal Police Organization - INTERPOL ( " the organisation " ) , ( b ) change to arrangement make by the organisation which involve fingerprint or dna profile be provide to member of the organisation ( whether change to exist arrangement or change put in place new arrangement ) , or ( c ) change to the organisation ' s arrangement for liaison between the organisation and its member or between its member . ( 2 ) regulation under this section be subject to affirmative resolution procedure . " ( 4 ) in section 18ba ( 5 ) ( a ) ( retention of further fingerprint ) , after " 18a " insert " , 18aa " . ( 5 ) section 18aa of the Counter - Terrorism Act 2008 apply in relation to section 18 material obtain or acquire by a law enforcement authority before the commencement day ( as well as material obtain or acquire on or after that day ) , except where the law enforcement authority be inform , or become aware , as describe in subsection ( 2 ) or ( 3 ) of that section before the commencement day . ( 6 ) subsection ( 7 ) of this section apply where — ( a ) at the beginning of the commencement day , a law enforcement authority have section 18 material , ( b ) at a time before the commencement day ( a " pre - commencement time " ) , the law enforcement authority be require by section 18 ( 4 ) of the Counter - Terrorism Act 2008 to destroy the material , but ( c ) at the pre - commencement time , the law enforcement authority could have retain the material under section 18aa of that Act ( as insert by this section ) if it have be in force . ( 7 ) where this subsection apply — ( a ) the law enforcement authority be to be treat as not have be require to destroy the material at the pre - commencement time , but ( b ) the material may not be use in evidence against the person to whom the material relate — ( i ) in criminal proceeding in England and Wales , Northern Ireland or Scotland in relation to an offence where those proceeding , or other criminal proceeding in relation to the person and the offence , be institute before the commencement day , or ( ii ) in criminal proceeding in any other country or territory . ( 8 ) in this section — " the commencement day " , " law enforcement authority " and " section 18 material " have the meaning give in section ( retention of biometric datum and recordable offence ) ( 14 ) ; " institute " , in relation to proceeding , have the meaning give in section ( retention of biometric datum and recordable offence ) ( 15 ) . " — ( Sir John Whittingdale . ) this new clause enable fingerprint and dna profile obtain as part of a request for assistance , or notification of a threat , from INTERPOL and hold for national security purpose by a law enforcement authority to be retain until the authority be inform that the request or notification have be withdraw or cancel . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 39 - National Underground Asset Register " ( 1 ) after section 106 of the New Roads and Street Works Act 1991 insert — " Part 3A - National Underground Asset Register : England and Wales " part 3a the register 106A National Underground Asset Register ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must keep a register of information relate to apparatus in street in England and Wales . ( 2 ) the register be to be know as the National Underground Asset Register ( and be refer to in this Act as " nuar " ) . ( 3 ) nuar must be keep in such form and manner as may be prescribe . ( 4 ) the Secretary of State must make arrangement so as to enable any person who be require , by a provision of Part 3 , to enter information into nuar to have access to nuar for that purpose . ( 5 ) regulation under subsection ( 3 ) be subject to the negative procedure . 106B access to information keep in nuar ( 1 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation make provision in connection with make information keep in NUAR available — ( a ) under a licence , or ( b ) without a licence . ( 2 ) the regulation may ( among other thing ) — ( a ) make provision about which information , or description of information , may be make available ; ( b ) make provision about the description of person to whom information may be make available ; ( c ) make provision for information to be make available subject to exception ; ( d ) make provision require or authorise the Secretary of State to adapt , modify or obscure information before make it available ; ( e ) make provision authorise all information keep in nuar to be make available to prescribe description of person under prescribe condition ; ( f ) make provision about the purpose for which information may be make available ; ( g ) make provision about the form and manner in which information may be make available . ( 3 ) the regulation may make provision about licence under which information keep in NUAR be make available , include — ( a ) provision about the form of a licence ; ( b ) provision about the term and condition of a licence ; ( c ) provision for information to be make available under a licence for free or for a fee ; ( d ) provision about the amount of the fee , include provision for the amount of a fee to be an amount which be intend to exceed the cost of the thing in respect of which the fee be charge ; ( e ) provision about how fund raise by mean of fee must or may be use , include provision for fund to be pay to person who be require , by a provision of Part 3 , to enter information into NUAR . ( 4 ) except as otherwise prescribed and subject to section 106 g , processing of information by the Secretary of State in exercise of function confer by or under section 106a or this section do not breach — ( a ) any obligation of confidence owe by the Secretary of State , or ( b ) any other restriction on the processing of information ( however impose ) . ( 5 ) regulation under this section be subject to the affirmative procedure . requirement for undertaker to pay fee and provide information 106C fee payable by undertaker in relation to nuar ( 1 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation make provision require undertaker have apparatus in a street to pay fee to the Secretary of State for or in connection with the exercise by the Secretary of State of any function confer by or under this Part . ( 2 ) the regulation may — ( a ) specify the amount of the fee , or the maximum amount of the fee , or ( b ) provide for the amount of the fee , or the maximum amount of the fee , to be determine in accordance with the regulation . ( 3 ) in make the regulation the Secretary of State must seek to secure that , so far as possible and take one year with another , the income from fee match the expense incur by the Secretary of State in , or in connection with , exercise function confer by or under this part ( include expense not directly connect with the keeping of nuar ) . ( 4 ) except where the regulation specify the amount of the fee — ( a ) the amount of the fee must be specify by the Secretary of State in a statement , and ( b ) the Secretary of State must — ( i ) publish the statement , and ( ii ) lie it before Parliament . ( 5 ) regulation under subsection ( 1 ) may make provision about — ( a ) when a fee be to be pay ; ( b ) the manner in which a fee be to be pay ; ( c ) the payment of discount fee ; ( d ) exception to requirement to pay fee ; ( e ) the refund of all or part of a fee which have be pay . ( 6 ) before make regulation under subsection ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must consult — ( a ) such representative of person likely to be affect by the regulation as the Secretary of State consider appropriate , and ( b ) such other person as the Secretary of State consider appropriate . ( 7 ) subject to the follow provision of this section regulation under subsection ( 1 ) be subject to the affirmative procedure . ( 8 ) regulation under subsection ( 1 ) that only make provision of a kind mention in subsection ( 2 ) be subject to the negative procedure . ( 9 ) but the first regulation under subsection ( 1 ) that make provision of a kind mention in subsection ( 2 ) be subject to the affirmative procedure . 106D provide information for purpose of regulation under section 106c ( 1 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation make provision require undertaker have apparatus in a street to provide information to the Secretary of State for either or both of the follow purpose — ( a ) assist the Secretary of State in determine the provision that it be appropriate for regulation under section 106c ( 1 ) or a statement under section 106c ( 4 ) to make ; ( b ) assist the Secretary of State in determine whether it be appropriate to make change to such provision . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation make provision require undertaker have apparatus in a street to provide information to the Secretary of State for either or both of the follow purpose — ( a ) ascertain whether a fee be payable by a person under regulation under section 106c ( 1 ) ; ( b ) work out the amount of a fee payable by a person . ( 3 ) regulation under subsection ( 1 ) or ( 2 ) may require an undertaker to notify the Secretary of State of any change to information previously provide under the regulation . ( 4 ) regulation under subsection ( 1 ) or ( 2 ) may make provision about — ( a ) when information be to be provide ( which may be at prescribe interval ) ; ( b ) the form and manner in which information be to be provide ; ( c ) exception to requirement to provide information . ( 5 ) regulation under subsection ( 1 ) or ( 2 ) be subject to the negative procedure . monetary penalty 106E Monetary penalty schedule 5A make provision about the imposition of penalty in connection with requirement impose by regulation under section 106c ( 1 ) and 106D ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) . exercise of function by third party 106F Arrangements for third party to exercise function ( 1 ) the Secretary of State may make arrangement for a prescribed person to exercise a relevant function of the Secretary of State . ( 2 ) More than one person may be prescribe . ( 3 ) arrangement under this section may — ( a ) provide for the Secretary of State to make payment to the person , and ( b ) make provision as to the circumstance in which any such payment be to be repay to the Secretary of State . ( 4 ) in the case of the exercise of a function by a person authorise by arrangement under this section to exercise that function , any reference in this Part or in regulation under this Part to the Secretary of State in connection with that function be to be read as a reference to that person . ( 5 ) arrangement under this section do not prevent the Secretary of State from exercise a function to which the arrangement relate . ( 6 ) except as otherwise prescribed and subject to section 106 g , the disclosure of information between the Secretary of State and a person in connection with the person ' s enter into arrangement under this section or exercise of function to which such arrangement relate do not breach — ( a ) any obligation of confidence owe by the person make the disclosure , or ( b ) any other restriction on the disclosure of information ( however impose ) . ( 7 ) regulation under this section be subject to the affirmative procedure . ( 8 ) in this section " relevant function " mean any function of the Secretary of State confer by or under this part ( include the function of charge or recover fee under section 106c ) other than — ( a ) a power to make regulation , or ( b ) a function under section 106c ( 4 ) ( specify of fee etc ) . data protection 106 G Data protection ( 1 ) a duty or power to process information that be impose or confer by or under this Part do not operate to require or authorise the processing of personal datum that would contravene the data protection legislation ( but in determine whether processing of personal datum would do so , that duty or power be to be take into account ) . ( 2 ) in this section — " the data protection legislation " have the same meaning as in the Data Protection Act 2018 ( see section 3 ( 9 ) of that Act ) ; " personal datum " have the same meaning as in that Act ( see section 3 ( 2 ) of that Act ) . supplementary provision 106H Regulations under this part ( 1 ) in this Part " prescribed " mean prescribe by regulation make by the Secretary of State . ( 2 ) regulation under this Part may make — ( a ) different provision for different purpose ; ( b ) supplementary and incidental provision . ( 3 ) regulation under this part be to be make by statutory instrument . ( 4 ) before make regulation under this Part the Secretary of State must consult the Welsh Ministers . ( 5 ) where regulation under this Part be subject to " the affirmative procedure " the regulation may not be make unless a draft of the statutory instrument contain they have be lay before and approve by a resolution of each House of Parliament . ( 6 ) where regulation under this Part be subject to " the negative procedure " the statutory instrument contain the regulation be subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of Parliament . ( 7 ) any provision that may be make in regulation under this Part subject to the negative procedure may be make in regulation subject to the affirmative procedure . 106I Interpretation ( 1 ) in this part the follow term have the same meaning as in Part 3 — " apparatus " ( see section 89 ( 3 ) and 105 ( 1 ) ) ; " in " ( in a context refer to apparatus in a street ) ( see section 105 ( 1 ) ) ; " street " ( see section 48 ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) ) ; " undertaker " ( in relation to apparatus or in a context refer to have apparatus in a street ) ( see section 48 ( 5 ) and 89 ( 4 ) ) . ( 2 ) in this Part " processing " have the same meaning as in the Data Protection Act 2018 ( see section 3 ( 4 ) of that Act ) and " process " be to be read accordingly . " ( 2 ) in section 167 of the New Roads and Street Works Act 1991 ( crown application ) — ( a ) after subsection ( 4 ) insert — " ( 4A ) the provision of Part 3A of this Act ( National Underground Asset Register : England and Wales ) bind the Crown . " ; ( b ) in subsection ( 5 ) , for " ( 4 ) " substitute " ( 4 ) or ( 4A ) " . ( 3 ) schedule ( National Underground Asset Register : monetary penalty ) to this Act insert schedule 5a into the New Roads and Street Works Act 1991 ( monetary penalty ) . " — ( Sir John Whittingdale . ) this amendment insert Part 3A into the New Roads and Street Works Act 1991 which require , and make provision in connection with , the keeping of a register of information relate to apparatus in street ( to be call the National Underground Asset Register ) . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 40 - information in relation to apparatus " ( 1 ) the New Roads and Street Works Act 1991 be amend in accordance with subsection ( 2 ) to ( 6 ) . ( 2 ) for the italic head before section 79 ( record of location of apparatus ) substitute " duty in relation to recording and sharing of information about apparatus " . ( 3 ) in section 79 — ( a ) for the heading substitute " information in relation to apparatus " ; ( b ) in subsection ( 1 ) , for paragraph ( c ) substitute — " ( c ) be inform of its location under section 80 ( 2 ) , " ; ( c ) after subsection ( 1A ) ( as insert by section 46 ( 2 ) of the Traffic Management Act 2004 ) insert — " ( 1b ) an undertaker must , except in such case as may be prescribe , record in relation to every item of apparatus belong to the undertaker such other information as may be prescribe as soon as reasonably practicable after — ( a ) place the item in the street or alter its position , ( b ) inspecting , maintain , adjust , repair , alter or renew the item , ( c ) locate the item in the street in the course of execute any other work , or ( d ) receive any such information in relation to the item under section 80 ( 2 ) . " ( d ) omit subsection ( 3 ) ; ( e ) in subsection ( 3A ) ( as insert by section 46 ( 4 ) of the Traffic Management Act 2004 ) — ( i ) for " to ( 3 ) " substitute " and ( 2A ) " ; ( ii ) for " subsection ( 1 ) " substitute " this section " ; ( f ) after subsection ( 3A ) insert — " ( 3b ) before the end of the initial upload period an undertaker must enter into nuar — ( a ) all information that be include in the undertaker ' s record under subsection ( 1 ) on the archive upload date , and ( b ) any other information of a prescribe description that be hold by the undertaker on that date . ( 3c ) where an undertaker record information as require by subsection ( 1 ) or ( 1b ) , or update such information , the undertaker must , within a prescribed period , enter the recorded or update information into NUAR . ( 3d ) the duty under subsection ( 3c ) do not apply in relation to information record or update before the archive upload date . ( 3e ) a duty under subsection ( 3b ) or ( 3c ) do not apply in such case as may be prescribe . ( 3F ) Information must be enter into nuar under subsection ( 3b ) or ( 3c ) in such form and manner as may be prescribe . " ( g ) in subsection ( 4 ) ( a ) , omit " not exceed level 5 on the standard scale " ; ( h ) after subsection ( 6 ) insert — " ( 7 ) for the purpose of subsection ( 3b ) the Secretary of State must by regulation — ( a ) specify a date as " the archive upload date " , and ( b ) specify a period begin with that date as the " initial upload period " . ( 8 ) for the meaning of " nuar " , see section 106A . " ( 4 ) for section 80 ( duty to inform undertaker of location of apparatus ) substitute — " 80 duty to report missing or incorrect information in relation to apparatus ( 1 ) subsection ( 2 ) apply where a person execute work of any description in a street find an item of apparatus belong to an undertaker in relation to which prescribed information — ( a ) be not enter in NUAR , or ( b ) be enter in NUAR but be incorrect . ( 2 ) the person must take such step as be reasonably practicable to inform the undertaker to whom the item belong of the missing or incorrect information . ( 3 ) where a person execute work of any description in a street find an item of apparatus which do not belong to the person and be unable , after take such step as be reasonably practicable , to ascertain to whom the item belong , the person must — ( a ) if the person be an undertaker , enter into NUAR , in such form and manner as may be prescribe , prescribe information in relation to the item ; ( b ) in any other case , inform the street authority of that information . ( 4 ) subsection ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) have effect subject to such exception as may be prescribe . ( 5 ) a person who fail to comply with subsection ( 2 ) or ( 3 ) commit an offence . ( 6 ) a person who commit an offence under subsection ( 5 ) be liable on summary conviction to a fine not exceed level 4 on the standard scale . ( 7 ) before make regulation under this section the Secretary of State must consult — ( a ) such representative of person likely to be affect by the regulation as the Secretary of State consider appropriate , and ( b ) such other person as the Secretary of State consider appropriate . ( 8 ) for the meaning of " nuar " , see section 106A . " ( 5 ) before section 81 ( duty to maintain apparatus ) insert — " other duty and liability of undertaker in relation to apparatus " . ( 6 ) in section 104 ( regulation ) , after subsection ( 1 ) insert — " ( 1A ) before make regulation under section 79 or 80 the Secretary of State must consult the Welsh Ministers . ( 1B ) regulation under this Part may make supplementary or incidental provision . " ( 7 ) in consequence of the provision make by subsection ( 4 ) , omit section 47 of the Traffic Management Act 2004 . " — ( Sir John Whittingdale . ) this amendment amend the New Roads and Street Works Act 1991 so as to impose new duty on undertaker to keep record of , and share information relate to , apparatus in street ; and make amendment consequential on those change . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 41 - pre - commencement consultation " a requirement to consult under a provision insert into the New Roads and Street Works Act 1991 by section ( National Underground Asset Register ) or ( information in relation to apparatus ) may be satisfy by consultation before , as well as consultation after , the provision insert that provision come into force . " — ( Sir John Whittingdale . ) this amendment provide that a requirement that the Secretary of State consult under a provision insert into the New Roads and Street Works Act 1991 by the new clause insert by Amendments NC39 and NC40 may be satisfy by consultation undertake before or after the provision insert that provision come into force . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 42 - transfer of certain function to Secretary of State " ( 1 ) the power to make regulation under section 79 ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) of the New Roads and Street Works Act 1991 , so far as exercisable in relation to Wales , be transfer to the Secretary of State . ( 2 ) the power to make regulation under section 79 ( 1A ) of that Act ( as insert by section 46 ( 2 ) a42of the Traffic Management Act 2004 ) , so far as exercisable in relation to Wales , be transfer to the Secretary of State . ( 3 ) the Street Works ( Records ) ( England ) Regulations 2002 ( S . I . 2002 / 3217 ) have effect as if the reference to England in regulation 1 ( 2 ) be a reference to England and Wales . ( 4 ) the Street Works ( Records ) ( Wales ) Regulations 2005 ( s . I . 2005 / 1812 ) be revoke . " — ( Sir John Whittingdale . ) this amendment provide that certain power to make regulation under section 79 of the New Roads and Street Works Act 1991 , so far as exercisable in relation to Wales , be transfer from the Welsh Ministers to the Secretary of State ; and make provision in relation to regulation already make under those power . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . clause 5 - lawfulness of processing Amendment propose : 11 , page 7 , line 12 , at end insert — " " internal administrative purpose " , in relation to special category datum , mean the condition set out for lawful processing in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 of the Data Protection Act 2018 . " — ( Kate Osborne . ) this amendment clarify that the processing of special category datum in employment must follow establish principle for reasonable processing , as define by paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 of the Data Protection Act 2018 . question put , that the amendment be make . Debbie Abrahams Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Jon Ashworth Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Ian Blackford Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Nick Brown Chris Bryant Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Daisy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Neil Coyle Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Ashley Dalton Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Martin Docherty Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Jonathan Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Tim Farron Marion Fellows Colleen Fletcher Richard Foord Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Paulette Hamilton Carolyn Harris John Healey Drew Hendry Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Darren Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Peter Kyle Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood David Linden Tony Lloyd Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Kenny MacAskill Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Ian Murray James Murray Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Matthew Pennycook Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Lucy Powell Steve Reed Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Michael Shanks Jim Shannon Virendra Sharma Tommy Sheppard Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Alex Sobel John Spellar Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Alistair Strathern Zarah Sultana Alison Thewliss Gareth Thomas Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Andrew Western Gerald Jones Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Scott Benton Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Karen Bradley Suella Braverman Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Lucy Frazer Louie French Richard Fuller Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Green Damian Green James Grundy Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Matthew Hancock Greg Hands Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Adam Holloway Paul Holmes Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Alister Jack Ranil Jayawardena Andrea Jenkyns Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger Kwasi Kwarteng John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Mark Menzies Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Mary Robinson Lee Rowley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew Selous Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chris Skidmore Chloe Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Mark Jenkinson Joy Morrissey the House divide : Ayes 200 , Noes 276 . question accordingly negative . clause 7 - elect representative respond to request Amendment make : 252 , page 10 , line 2 , leave out Clause 7 . — ( Sir John Whittingdale . ) this amendment be consequential on NC48 . clause 7 amend word in paragraph 23 ( 4 ) of Schedule 1 to the Data Protection Act 2018 . that provision be repeal by the new Clause . clause 8 - vexatious or excessive request by datum subject Amendment make : 17 , page 12 , line 2 , leave out " after subsection ( 2 ) " and insert " before subsection ( 3 ) " . — ( Sir John Whittingdale . ) this technical change be consequential on the amendment of section 94 of the Data Protection Act 2018 in the new clause insert by Amendment NC7 . Amendment propose : 224 , page 18 , line 7 , leave out Clause 12 — ( Patrick Grady . ) question put , that the amendment be make . Ian Blackford Steven Bonnar Deidre Brock Alan Brown Amy Callaghan Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Ronnie Cowan Martyn Day Martin Docherty Allan Dorans Jonathan Edwards Marion Fellows Patricia Gibson Patrick Grady Drew Hendry Chris Law David Linden Caroline Lucas Kenny MacAskill Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald Anne McLaughlin Carol Monaghan John Nicolson Brendan O ' Hara Kirsten Oswald Liz Saville - Roberts Tommy Sheppard Alyn Smith Alison Thewliss Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Claudia Webbe Philippa Whitford Hywel Williams Pete Wishart Gavin Newlands Peter Grant Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Scott Benton Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Karen Bradley Suella Braverman Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Alberto Costa Geoffrey Cox Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Lucy Frazer Louie French Richard Fuller Marcus Fysh Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Green Damian Green James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Adam Holloway Paul Holmes Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Alister Jack Ranil Jayawardena Andrea Jenkyns Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger Kwasi Kwarteng John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Mark Menzies Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Mary Robinson Lee Rowley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chris Skidmore Chloe Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Gary Streeter Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Mark Jenkinson Joy Morrissey the House divide : Ayes 37 , Noes 279 . question accordingly negative . clause 12 - automate decision - make Amendment propose : 5 , page 19 , line 12 , after " solely " insert " or partly " . — ( Chris Bryant . ) question put , that the amendment be make . Debbie Abrahams Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Jon Ashworth Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Ian Blackford Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Nick Brown Chris Bryant Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Daisy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Neil Coyle Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Ashley Dalton Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Martin Docherty Allan Dorans Peter Dowd Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Jonathan Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Chris Elmore Bill Esterson Chris Evans Tim Farron Marion Fellows Colleen Fletcher Richard Foord Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Nia Griffith Paulette Hamilton Carolyn Harris John Healey Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Darren Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Peter Kyle Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood David Linden Tony Lloyd Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Kenny MacAskill Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Ian Murray James Murray Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kirsten Oswald Matthew Pennycook Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Lucy Powell Angela Rayner Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Liz Saville - Roberts Michael Shanks Virendra Sharma Tommy Sheppard Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Alex Sobel John Spellar Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Alistair Strathern Zarah Sultana Alison Thewliss Gareth Thomas Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Andrew Western Gerald Jones Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Gareth Bacon Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Scott Benton Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Karen Bradley Suella Braverman Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Andy Carter James Cartlidge Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Alberto Costa Geoffrey Cox Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon fall Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Lucy Frazer Louie French Richard Fuller Marcus Fysh Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Green Damian Green James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Richard Holden Adam Holloway Paul Holmes Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Alister Jack Ranil Jayawardena Andrea Jenkyns Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger Kwasi Kwarteng John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Mark Menzies Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Mary Robinson Lee Rowley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chris Skidmore Chloe Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Gary Streeter Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Mark Jenkinson Joy Morrissey the House divide : Ayes 195 , Noes 273 . question accordingly negative . clause 16 - duty to keep record Amendments make : 18 , page 29 , line 29 , after first " of " insert " high risk " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 21 . amendment 19 , page 29 , line 34 , after " individual " insert " ( ' high risk processing ' ) " . see the explanatory statement for Amendment 21 . amendment 20 , page 29 , line 35 , leave out " such " and insert " high risk " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 19 . amendment 21 , page 30 , line 1 , leave out " processing of personal datum " and insert " high risk processing that be be " . this amendment , read with Amendment 19 , provide that , in relation to processing of personal datum to which the UK GDPR apply , controller be only require to keep record of processing currently be carry out that be likely to result in a high risk to the right and freedom of individual . amendment 22 , page 30 , leave out line 4 and 5 . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 21 . amendment 23 , page 30 , line 6 , after " datum " insert " undergo the high risk processing " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 21 . amendment 24 , page 30 , line 8 , leave out " controller be process the personal datum " and insert " high risk processing be be carry out " . this amendment and Amendments 25 and 26 be consequential on Amendment 21 and be also make for consistency with the reference in new article 30a ( 2 ) of the UK GDPR to processing carry out on behalf of , as well as by , the controller . Amendment 25 , page 30 , line 10 , leave out from second " the " to " ( include " in line 11 and insert " personal datum undergo the high risk processing have be , or be intend to be , share by or on behalf of the controller " . see the explanatory statement for Amendment 24 . amendment 26 , page 30 , line 13 , leave out " to retain the personal datum " and insert " the high risk processing to be carry out " . see the explanatory statement for Amendment 24 . Amendment 27 , page 30 , leave out line 14 to 18 and insert — " ( e ) whether the high risk processing include processing describe in article 9 ( 1 ) ( processing of special category of personal datum ) and , if so , which type of such processing , and ( f ) whether the high risk processing include processing describe in Article 10 ( 1 ) ( processing of personal datum relate to criminal conviction etc ) and , if so , which type of such processing . " this amendment be partly consequential on Amendment 21 . it also adjust the current wording of point ( e ) and ( f ) to reflect the term of Articles 9 ( 1 ) and 10 ( 1 ) . amendment 28 , page 30 , line 20 , after " datum " insert " undergo high risk processing " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 21 . amendment 29 , page 30 , line 21 , leave out " its processing of personal datum " and insert " high risk processing that it be carry out " . this amendment , read with Amendment 19 , provide that , in relation to processing of personal datum to which the UK GDPR apply , processor be only require to keep record of processing currently be carry out that be likely to result in a high risk to the right and freedom of individual . amendment 30 , page 30 , leave out line 24 and 25 . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 29 . amendment 31 , page 30 , line 27 , leave out " act " and insert " carry out high risk processing " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 29 . amendment 32 , page 30 , line 28 , after " datum " insert " undergo the high risk processing " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 29 . amendment 33 , page 30 , line 31 , after " datum " insert " undergo high risk processing " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 29 . Amendment 34 , page 30 , line 36 , after " of " insert " high risk " . this amendment be consequential on Amendments 21 and 29 . amendment 35 , page 31 , line 9 , after " datum " insert " that be be " . this amendment and Amendment 42 make clear that the duty to keep record of processing of personal datum to which part 3 of the Data Protection Act 2018 apply only to processing currently be carry out . amendment 36 , page 31 , leave out line 11 and 12 . this amendment and Amendments 37 , 38 , 39 and 40 to provision to be insert in the Data Protection Act 2018 be for consistency with Amendments 22 , 23 , 24 , 25 and 26 which amend provision to be insert in the UK GDPR . amendment 37 , page 31 , line 13 , after " datum " insert " undergo the processing " . see the explanatory statement for Amendment 36 . amendment 38 , page 31 , line 15 , leave out " the controller be process the personal datum " and insert " the processing be be carry out " . see the explanatory statement for Amendment 36 . amendment 39 , page 31 , line 17 , leave out from second " the " to " ( include " in line 18 and insert " personal datum have be , or be intend to be , share by or on behalf of the controller " . see the explanatory statement for Amendment 36 . amendment 40 , page 31 , line 20 , leave out " to retain the personal datum " and insert " the personal datum to be retain " . see the explanatory statement for Amendment 36 . amendment 41 , page 31 , leave out line 22 and 23 and insert — " ( e ) whether the processing of the personal datum include sensitive processing ( as define in section 35 ( 8 ) ) and , if so , which type of such processing . " this technical amendment change new section 61a ( 2 ) ( e ) of the Data Protection Act 2018 so that it make provision by reference to " sensitive processing " , rather than to personal datum describe in section 35 ( 8 ) . amendment 42 , page 31 , line 26 , leave out " its processing of personal datum " and insert " the processing that it be carry out " . see the explanatory statement for Amendment 35 . amendment 43 , page 31 , leave out line 29 and 30 . this amendment be propose for consistency with the change propose by Amendment 36 . amendment 44 , page 31 , line 33 , after " datum " insert " undergo the processing " . — ( Sir John Whittingdale . ) this amendment be propose for consistency with the change propose by Amendment 37 . clause 18 - Assessment of high risk processing Amendment propose : 1 , page 32 , line 18 , leave out paragraph ( c ) and insert — " ( c ) omit paragraph 2 , ( can ) in paragraph 3 — ( i ) for " datum protection " substitute " high risk processing " , ( ii ) in sub - paragraph ( a ) , for " natural person " substitute " individual " , ( iii ) in sub - paragraph ( a ) for " natural person " substitute " individual " in both place where it occur , ( cb ) omit paragraph 4 and 5 , " . — ( Sir Chris Bryant . ) this amendment would leave paragraph 3 of article 35 of the UK GDPR in place ( with amendment reflect amendment make by the Bill elsewhere in the article ) , thereby ensure that there be a definition of " high risk processing " on the face of the Regulation . question put , that the amendment be make . Debbie Abrahams Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Jon Ashworth Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Hilary Benn Ian Blackford Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Nick Brown Chris Bryant Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Daisy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Neil Coyle Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Ashley Dalton Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Martin Docherty Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Jonathan Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Chris Elmore Bill Esterson Chris Evans Tim Farron Marion Fellows Colleen Fletcher Richard Foord Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Paulette Hamilton Carolyn Harris John Healey Drew Hendry Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Darren Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Peter Kyle Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood David Linden Tony Lloyd Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Kenny MacAskill Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Ian Murray James Murray Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Matthew Pennycook Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Lucy Powell Angela Rayner Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Liz Saville - Roberts Michael Shanks Virendra Sharma Tommy Sheppard Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Alex Sobel John Spellar Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Alistair Strathern Zarah Sultana Alison Thewliss Gareth Thomas Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Andrew Western Gerald Jones Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Scott Benton Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Karen Bradley Suella Braverman Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Alberto Costa Geoffrey Cox Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Lucy Frazer George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Marcus Fysh Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Green Damian Green James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Matthew Hancock Greg Hands Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Adam Holloway Paul Holmes Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Alister Jack Ranil Jayawardena Andrea Jenkyns Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger Kwasi Kwarteng John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Esther McVey Mark Menzies Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Mary Robinson Lee Rowley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chris Skidmore Chloe Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Gary Streeter Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Mark Jenkinson Joy Morrissey the House divide : Ayes 198 , Noes 275 . question accordingly negative . clause 33 - code of practice : approval by the Secretary of State Amendment make : 45 , page 56 , line 23 , leave out subsection ( 2 ) and insert — " ( 2 ) after section 124C ( insert by section 32 of this Act ) insert — 124D Secretary of State ' s recommendation ( 1 ) where a code be prepare under section 121 , 122 , 123 , 124 or 124a , the Commissioner must — ( a ) submit what the Commissioner consider to be the final version to the Secretary of State , and ( b ) publish it . ( 2 ) before the end of the period of 40 day begin when the code be submit to the Secretary of State , the Secretary of State must — ( a ) decide whether to make recommendation relate to the code ( whether about its content or about other matter ) , ( b ) send any recommendation to the Commissioner in writing , and ( c ) publish the recommendation . ( 3 ) if the Secretary of State do not make recommendation , the Secretary of State must lay the code before Parliament . ( 4 ) if the Secretary of State make recommendation , the Commissioner must , before the end of the response period — ( a ) consider the recommendation , ( b ) decide whether to withdraw the code , and ( c ) prepare and publish a document respond to the recommendation . ( 5 ) in subsection ( 4 ) , " the response period " mean — ( a ) the period of 40 day begin when the recommendation be publish , or ( b ) such long period as the Secretary of State and the Commissioner may agree . ( 6 ) the document respond to the recommendation must — ( a ) state whether the Commissioner accept each recommendation , ( b ) give reason for accept , or not accept , each recommendation , ( c ) state the step that the Commissioner have take , or propose to take , in response to each recommendation , ( d ) state whether the code be withdraw , and ( e ) where relevant , give reason for not withdraw the code . ( 7 ) if the document state that the code be not withdraw , the Secretary of State must lay the code before Parliament . ( 8 ) the withdrawal of a code do not prevent the code be re - submit to the Secretary of State under subsection ( 1 ) , with or without modification . ( 9 ) this section apply in relation to amendment prepare under section 121 , 122 , 123 , 124 or 124a as it apply in relation to code prepare under those section . ( 10 ) in calculate the period of 40 day mention in subsection ( 2 ) and ( 5 ) , no account be to be take of — ( a ) Saturdays and Sundays , ( b ) Christmas Day or Good Friday , or ( c ) a day which be a bank holiday under the Banking and Financial Dealings Act 1971 in any part of the United Kingdom . " " — ( Sir John Whittingdale . ) this amendment provide that the Information Commissioner must consider recommendation from the Secretary of State about a code of practice before the code be lay before Parliament for approval ( and remove provision include in the Bill which require a code to be approve by the Secretary of State ) . clause 48 - Introductory Amendments make : 46 , page 76 , line 32 , at end insert — " ( aa ) a list of recognise supplementary code ( see section ( list of recognise supplementary code ) ) , " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment NC12 . amendment 47 , page 77 , line 3 , at begin insert — " ( 3 ) in subsection ( 2 ) , " " . — ( Sir John Whittingdale . ) this amendment be consequential on Amendment NC25 . clause 49 - dvs trust framework Amendments make : 48 , page 77 , line 11 , leave out " set out rule " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 49 . amendment 49 , page 77 , line 12 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) the document must — ( a ) set out rule concern the provision of digital verification service , and ( b ) set out condition to be meet for rule concern the provision of such service which supplement the rule set out in the document to be approve by the Secretary of State under section ( approval of a supplementary code ) or designate by the Secretary of State under section ( designation of a supplementary code ) . " this amendment require the Secretary of State to set condition for approval or designation of supplementary rule concern the provision of digital verification service . Amendment 50 , page 77 , line 13 , leave out subsection ( 2 ) and insert — " ( 2 ) in this part — ( a ) the document describe in subsection ( 1 ) be refer to as the DVS trust framework ; ( b ) the rule set out in the document be refer to as the main code ; ( c ) a set of rule concern the provision of digital verification service which supplement the main code be refer to as a supplementary code . " this amendment set out the meaning of term use in the Part . Amendment 51 , page 77 , line 24 , leave out from second " framework , " to end of line 26 and insert " must specify the time it come into force ( which must not be a time early than the time it be publish ) . " this amendment adjust the time when the DVS trust framework ( or revision of it ) may come into force . amendment 52 , page 77 , line 27 , at end insert — " ( za ) set different rule for different digital verification service , ( zb ) set different condition for approval or designation for different purpose , " . this amendment enable the DVS trust framework to set different rule for different digital verification service and to set different condition for approval or designation for different purpose . amendment 53 , page 77 , line 29 , at end insert — " ( 9 ) subsection ( 10 ) apply where the Secretary of State revise and republish the DVS trust framework and the revision include an addition to , or alteration of , the main code . ( 10 ) the DVS trust framework may provide that from a date , or from the end of a period , specify in the framework a pre - revision certificate be require to be ignore for the purpose of section 50 ( 4 ) ( a ) , ( registration of additional service ) ( 1 ) ( c ) , 53 ( 1 ) ( c ) and ( duty to remove service from the DVS register ) ( 1 ) ( c ) . ( 11 ) in subsection ( 10 ) , a " pre - revision certificate " mean a certificate , certify that digital verification service provide by the holder of the certificate be provide in accordance with the main code , which be issue before the time the relevant revision to the main code come into force . " — ( Sir John Whittingdale . ) this amendment , take together with Amendment 78 , replace provision about " top - up certificate " with provision enable the DVS trust framework to contain transitional provision about certificate issue before revision to the main code come into force . clause 50 - dvs register Amendments make : 54 , page 78 , line 4 , leave out first " the " . this amendment , together with Amendment 56 , clarify that a person may hold a certificate which cover a wide range of digital verification service than those for which the person apply to be register . Amendment 55 , page 78 , line 5 , leave out " dvs trust framework " and insert " main code " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 50 . amendment 56 , page 78 , line 6 , after " of " insert " one or more of " . see the explanatory statement for Amendment 54 . amendment 57 , page 78 , line 11 , at end insert — " ( 4A ) the register must record the digital verification service in respect of which a person be , from time to time , register . " this amendment require the Secretary of State to record on the DVS register which digital verification service a person be register in respect of . amendment 58 , page 78 , line 17 , leave out " 55 " and insert " 49 ( 10 ) " . this amendment be consequential on Amendments 78 and 53 . amendment 59 , page 78 , line 18 , leave out " section " and insert " Part , " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment NC25 . Amendment 60 , page 78 , line 23 , leave out " dvs trust framework " and insert " main code " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 50 . amendment 61 , page 78 , line 23 , at end insert — " ( 8 ) in subsection ( 7 ) — " . — ( Sir John Whittingdale . ) this amendment be consequential on Amendment NC25 . clause 51 - Applications for registration amendment make : 62 , page 78 , line 34 , leave out " for registration in the DVS register " and insert " under section 50 , ( registration of additional service ) , ( supplementary note ) or ( addition of service to supplementary note ) " . this amendment provide for how an application be make to add additional service to the dvs register , to include a note in the dvs register or to add service to a note . amendment 63 , page 78 , line 35 , leave out " an application for registration in that register " and insert " the application " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 62 . Amendment 64 , page 78 , line 37 , leave out " an application for registration in that register " and insert " the application " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 62 . amendment 65 , page 78 , line 39 , leave out " an application for registration in that register " and insert " the application " . — ( Sir John Whittingdale . ) this amendment be consequential on Amendment 62 . clause 52 - fee for registration amendment make : 66 , page 79 , line 5 , leave out " apply for registration in the DVS register " and insert " make an application under section 50 , ( registration of additional service ) , ( supplementary note ) or ( addition of service to supplementary note ) " . this amendment enable the Secretary of State to charge fee for application to add service to the dvs register , to include a note in the dvs register or to add service to a note . amendment 67 , page 79 , line 9 , leave out " an application for registration " and insert " the application " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 66 . amendment 68 , page 79 , line 16 , after " summarily " insert " ( or , in Scotland , recoverable ) " . — ( Sir John Whittingdale . ) this amendment be to ensure that the provision about recovery of fee also work for recovery in Scotland . clause 53 - Duty to remove person from the dvs register Amendments make : 69 , page 79 , line 26 , after " provide " insert " all of the " . this amendment clarify that a duty to remove a person from the DVS register arise only if the person no long provide any digital verification service in respect of which they be register . amendment 70 , page 79 , line 29 , leave out " those digital verification service be " and insert " at least one of those digital verification service be " . this amendment clarify that a person may have a certificate cover a wide range of digital verification service than those in respect of which they be register . amendment 71 , page 79 , line 30 , leave out " dvs trust framework " and insert " main code " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 50 . amendment 72 , page 79 , line 35 , leave out " 55 " and insert " 49 ( 10 ) " . this amendment be consequential on Amendments 78 and 53 . amendment 73 , page 79 , line 36 , leave out subsection ( 3 ) . — ( Sir John Whittingdale . ) this amendment be consequential on Amendment 59 . clause 54 - Power to remove person from the dvs register Amendments make : 74 , page 80 , line 2 , leave out " the Secretary of State be satisfied that " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 76 . amendment 75 , page 80 , line 4 , leave out paragraph ( a ) and insert — " ( a ) the Secretary of State be satisfied that the person be fail to comply with the main code when provide one or more of the digital verification service in respect of which the person be register , " . this amendment be in part consequential on Amendment 76 and also to clarify that the power to remove a person from the DVS register be exercisable if the person be fail to comply with the main code when provide some or all of the digital verification service in respect of which they be register . amendment 76 , page 80 , line 6 , at end insert — " ( aa ) the person have a supplementary note include in the DVS register and the Secretary of State be satisfied that the person be fail to comply with the supplementary code to which the note relate when provide one or more of the digital verification service record in the note , or " . the amendment enable the Secretary of State to remove a person from the dvs register if the person have a note in the register that they provide digital verification service in accordance with a supplementary code and they be fail to comply with the code when provide digital verification service . amendment 77 , page 80 , line 7 , after the first " the " insert " Secretary of State be satisfied that the " . — ( Sir John Whittingdale . ) this amendment be consequential on Amendment 76 . clause 55 - revise the DVS trust framework : top - up certificate Amendment make : 78 , page 81 , line 8 , leave out clause 55 . — ( Sir John Whittingdale . ) this amendment be consequential on Amendment 53 . clause 56 - power of public authority to disclose information to register person Amendment make : 79 , page 82 , line 19 , leave out from " person " to end of line and insert " whose function — ( a ) be of a public nature , or ( b ) include function of that nature . " — ( Sir John Whittingdale . ) this amendment clarify that a " public authority " mean person whose function be entirely , or partly , function of a public nature . clause 60 - code of practice about the disclosure of information Amendment make : 80 , page 85 , line 25 , leave out from " person " to end of line 26 and insert " whose function — ( a ) be of a public nature , or ( b ) include function of that nature . " — ( Sir John Whittingdale . ) this amendment clarify that a " public authority " mean person whose function be entirely , or partly , function of a public nature . clause 62 - Power of Secretary of State to require information Amendment make : 81 , page 87 , leave out line 16 and 17 . — ( Sir John Whittingdale . ) this amendment be consequential on Amendment 59 . clause 65 - customer datum and business datum Amendments make : 82 , page 88 , line 13 , leave out from " about " to end of line 15 and insert " — ( i ) where good , service or digital content be supply or provide , ( ii ) price or other term on which they be supply or provide , ( iii ) how they be use , or ( iv ) their performance or quality ) , " . this amendment add a reference to information about how good , service or digital content supply or provide by a trader be use to the example give in paragraph ( b ) of the definition of " business datum " . amendment 83 , page 88 , line 17 , after " content " insert " ( or their supply or provision ) " . this amendment make clear that a reference to feedback about good , service or digital content include feedback about their supply or provision . amendment 84 , page 88 , line 18 , leave out " business datum " and insert " information describe in paragraph ( a ) to ( c ) " . this be a technical amendment to avoid the definition of " business datum " rely on that label . amendment 85 , page 88 , line 22 , leave out paragraph ( a ) and insert — " ( a ) information relate to good , service and digital content supply or provide by the trader to the customer or to another person at the customer ' s request ( such as , for example , information about — ( i ) price or other term on which good , service or digital content be supply or provide to the customer or the other person , ( ii ) how they be use by the customer or the other person , or ( iii ) their performance or quality when use by the customer or the other person ) , and " . this amendment of the definition of " customer datum " remove a reference to information relate to transaction and replace it with a reference to a wide range of information . amendment 86 , page 88 , line 24 , leave out " customer datum " and insert " information describe in paragraph ( a ) , or of other information relate to a customer of a trader , " . this be a technical amendment to avoid the definition of " customer datum " rely on that label . Amendment 87 , page 88 , line 30 , at end insert " ( and see section ( other datum provision ) ) " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment NC32 . amendment 88 , page 88 , line 37 , leave out from " time " to end of line 40 and insert " — ( i ) purchase good , service or digital content supply or provide by t ( whether for use by C or another person ) , ( ii ) be supply or provide by t with good , service or digital content purchase from t by another person , or ( iii ) otherwise receive good , service or digital content free of charge from t , and ( b ) c purchase or receive the good , service or digital content — " . this amendment make clear that a person who receive , from a trader , good , service or digital service purchase by another person be a customer of the trader for the purpose of Part 3 of the Bill . amendment 89 , page 89 , line 4 , leave out " ( 3 ) ( a ) , the reference to purchase " and insert " ( 3 ) , the reference to purchase , supply , provision " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 88 . amendment 90 , page 89 , line 5 , after " purchase " insert " , supply , provision " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 88 . amendment 91 , page 89 , line 6 , at end insert — " ( 4A ) in subsection ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) , reference to purchase good , service or digital content include enter into an agreement to do so . " this amendment make clear that certain reference to purchase good etc include enter into an agreement to do so . amendment 92 , page 89 , line 8 , at end insert " ( however express ) " . this amendment be consequential on Amendments 84 and 86 . amendment 93 , page 89 , line 12 , at end insert " ( however express ) " . — ( Sir John Whittingdale . ) this amendment be consequential on Amendments 84 and 86 . clause 66 - power to make provision in connection with customer datum Amendment make : 94 , page 89 , line 32 , leave out from begin to " in " and insert " take , on the customer ' s behalf , action that the customer could take " . — ( Sir John Whittingdale . ) this amendment replace a reference to an authorised person ( in relation to customer datum ) exercise a customer ' s right with a reference to an authorised person take action that the customer could take , in order to cover case in which take such action do not involve exercise the customer ' s right . clause 67 - customer datum : supplementary Amendments make : 95 , page 90 , line 12 , leave out " or condition impose by a specified person " . this amendment and Amendment 119 remove unnecessary word . the definition of " specify " ( in clause 81 ) enable regulation under Part 3 to specify a description of condition , such as a condition impose by a particular person . amendment 96 , page 90 , line 18 , leave out " exercise of customer ’ right " and insert " taking of action describe in section 66 ( 3 ) " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 94 . amendment 97 , page 90 , line 19 , leave out " customer datum to be provide " and insert " a data holder to provide customer datum " . this amendment make clear that what be be refer to be the provision of datum by a data holder . amendment 98 , page 90 , line 21 , leave out " the use of " and insert " a data holder , customer or authorise person to use " . this amendment make clear that what be be refer to be the use of facility and service by data holder , customer or authorise person . amendment 99 , page 90 , line 23 , leave out " programme " and insert " programming " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 189 . amendment 100 , page 90 , line 24 , leave out " to participate in , or comply with , arrangement " and insert " or authorise person to comply with specified standard , or participate in specify arrangement , " . this amendment make clear that datum holder and authorise person may be require to comply with particular standard , or participate in particular arrangement , in connection with the provision of customer datum . amendment 101 , page 90 , line 27 , after " holder " insert " or authorise person " . this amendment enable regulation under Part 3 to require an authorised person to provide assistance in connection with facility or service use to provide customer datum . amendment 102 , page 90 , line 27 , after " for , " insert " specify " . this amendment make clear that regulation under Part 3 may require a data holder to provide , or arrange for , particular assistance . amendment 103 , page 90 , line 29 , at end insert — " ( e ) provision about interface body ( see section ( interface body ) ) . " this amendment be consequential on new clause NC27 . Amendment 104 , page 91 , line 1 , leave out " the use of " and insert " an authorised person to use " . this amendment make clear that what be be refer to be the use of facility and service by authorise person . amendment 105 , page 91 , line 3 , leave out " programme " and insert " programming " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 189 . amendment 106 , page 91 , line 4 , leave out from " require " to " for " in line 5 and insert " an authorised person to comply with specified standard , or participate in specify arrangement , " . this amendment make clear that an authorised person may be require to comply with particular standard , or participate in particular arrangement , in connection with the processing of customer datum . Amendment 107 , page 91 , line 7 , leave out " the " and insert " an " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 106 . amendment 108 , page 91 , line 8 , at begin insert " specify " . this amendment make clear that regulation under Part 3 may require an authorised person to provide , or arrange for , particular assistance . amendment 109 , page 91 , line 9 , at end insert — " ( ca ) provision about interface body ( see section ( interface body ) ) ; " . this amendment be consequential on new clause NC27 . amendment 110 , page 91 , line 24 , leave out " , authorise person or decision - maker " and insert " or authorise person " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 140 , which insert separate provision about decision - maker ' procedure for handle complaint . amendment 111 , page 91 , line 34 , at end insert — " ( 11 ) in subsection ( 4 ) ( d ) and ( 7 ) ( c ) , reference to assistance include actual or contingent financial assistance ( such as , for example , a grant , loan , guarantee or indemnity or buy a company ' s share capital ) . " — ( Sir John Whittingdale . ) this amendment make clear that certain reference to assistance in connection with the establishment , maintenance or management of facility or service for the provision of datum include financial assistance . clause 68 - power to make provision in connection with business datum Amendments make : 112 , page 91 , line 38 , leave out " on request " . this amendment enable regulation under Part 3 to require a data holder to provide business datum without a request be make . amendment 113 , page 91 , line 39 , after " trader " insert " to whom the business datum relate " . this amendment make clear which trader be be refer to . amendment 114 , page 91 , line 40 , leave out " ( a " third party recipient " ) " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 115 . amendment 115 , page 91 , line 40 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) in this part , " third party recipient " mean a person to whom a data holder be require to provide business datum by virtue of provision make under subsection ( 1 ) ( b ) . " this amendment insert a definition of " third party recipient " . Amendment 116 , page 91 , line 43 , at end insert — " ( 2A ) the Secretary of State or the Treasury may by regulation — ( a ) make provision require a public authority that be a third party recipient ( whether by virtue of those regulation or other data regulation ) , or a person appoint by such a public authority , to publish business datum or to provide business datum — ( i ) to a customer of the trader to whom the business data relate , or ( ii ) to another person of a specified description , ( b ) in relation to the public authority , or a person appoint by the public authority to do something describe in paragraph ( a ) , make any provision that could be make in relation to a data holder , in connection with business datum , in reliance on subsection ( 2 ) or section 69 to 78 , other than provision impose a levy on the public authority or person , and ( c ) in relation to a person to whom the public authority be require to provide business datum by virtue of provision make under paragraph ( a ) ( ii ) , make any provision that could be make in relation to a third party recipient in reliance on section 69 to 78 . " — ( Sir John Whittingdale . ) this amendment enable regulation under Part 3 to make , in relation to a public authority to whom business datum be provide in accordance with such regulation , the same provision that regulation may make in relation to data holder ( other than provision impose a levy on the authority ) . clause 69 - business datum : supplementary Amendments make : 117 , page 92 , line 14 , leave out " make provision about request for business datum " and insert " require business datum to be provide on request and make provision about request " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 112 . amendment 118 , page 92 , line 21 , leave out " person approve to receive it ( " approve person " ) " and insert " customer , or third party recipient , who be approve to receive it " . this amendment remove an unnecessary label ( " approve person " ) . Amendment 119 , page 92 , line 23 , leave out " or condition impose by a specified person " . see the explanatory statement for Amendment 95 . amendment 120 , page 92 , line 30 , leave out " business datum to be provide or publish " and insert " a data holder to provide or publish business datum " . this amendment make clear that what be be refer to be the provision or publication of datum by a data holder . amendment 121 , page 92 , line 32 , leave out " the use of " and insert " a data holder , customer or third party recipient to use " . this amendment make clear that what be be refer to be the use of facility and service by data holder , customer or third party recipient . amendment 122 , page 92 , line 34 , leave out " programme " and insert " programming " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 189 . amendment 123 , page 92 , line 35 , leave out " to participate in , or comply with , arrangement " and insert " or third party recipient to comply with specified standard , or participate in specify arrangement , " . this amendment make clear that datum holder and third party recipient may be require to comply with particular standard , or participate in particular arrangement , in connection with the provision or publication of business datum . amendment 124 , page 92 , line 38 , after " holder " insert " or third party recipient " . this amendment enable regulation under Part 3 to require a third party recipient to provide assistance in connection with facility or service use to provide or publish business datum . Amendment 125 , page 92 , line 38 , after " for , " insert " specify " . this amendment make clear that regulation under Part 3 may require a data holder to provide , or arrange for , particular assistance . amendment 126 , page 92 , line 40 , at end insert — " ( e ) provision about interface body ( see section ( interface body ) ) . " this amendment be consequential on new clause NC27 . amendment 127 , page 93 , line 11 , leave out " person " and insert " third party recipient " . this amendment limit the power under clause 69 ( 7 ) to make provision about the processing of business datum to power to make provision about processing by third party recipient . amendment 128 , page 93 , line 12 , leave out " the use of " and insert " a third party recipient to use " . this amendment make clear that what be be refer to be the use of facility and service by third party recipient . amendment 129 , page 93 , line 14 , leave out " programme " and insert " programming " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 189 . amendment 130 , page 93 , line 15 , leave out from " require " to " for " in line 16 " a third party recipient to comply with specified standard , or participate in specify arrangement , " . this amendment make clear that a third party recipient may be require to comply with particular standard , or participate in particular arrangement , in connection with the processing of business datum . amendment 131 , page 93 , line 18 , leave out " the person " and insert " a third party recipient " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 127 . amendment 132 , page 93 , line 18 , after " for , " insert " specify " . this amendment make clear that regulation under Part 3 may require a person to provide , or arrange for , particular assistance . amendment 133 , page 93 , line 20 , at end insert — " ( ca ) provision about interface body ( see section ( interface body ) ) ; " . this amendment be consequential on new clause NC27 . Amendment 134 , page 93 , line 26 , leave out " an approved person " and insert " a third party recipient " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 118 . amendment 135 , page 93 , line 28 , leave out " approve person " and insert " third party recipient " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 118 . amendment 136 , page 93 , line 31 , leave out " decision - maker " and insert " third party recipient " . this amendment enable regulation under Part 3 to require third party recipient to implement procedure for handle complaint . it be also consequential on Amendment 140 , which insert separate provision about decision - maker ' procedure for handle complaint . amendment 137 , page 93 , line 41 , at end insert — " ( 11 ) in subsection ( 4 ) ( d ) and ( 7 ) ( c ) , reference to assistance include actual or contingent financial assistance ( such as , for example , a grant , loan , guarantee or indemnity or buy a company ' s share capital ) . " — ( Sir John Whittingdale . ) this amendment make clear that certain reference to assistance in connection with the establishment , maintenance or management of facility or service for the provision of datum include financial assistance . clause 70 - decision - maker Amendments make : 138 , page 94 , line 12 , leave out from begin to " include " and insert " the monitor power that may be confer on a decision - maker " . this tidy up the drafting of provision refer to a decision - maker ' s monitor power . amendment 139 , page 94 , line 13 , after " of " insert " document or " . this amendment make clear that regulation under Part 3 may confer power on decision - maker to require document ( as well as information ) to be provide . amendment 140 , page 94 , line 20 , at end insert — " ( 6a ) the regulation may make provision about complaint , include provision require a decision - maker to implement procedure for the handling of complaint . " this amendment enable regulation under Part 3 to require decision - maker to have procedure for handle complaint . amendment 141 , page 94 , line 22 , after second " specified " insert " document or " . this amendment make clear that regulation under Part 3 may impose duty on decision - maker to publish or provide document ( as well as information ) . amendment 142 , page 94 , line 25 , leave out " carry out by a specified person " and insert " exercise by another person " . this amendment and Amendment 153 make drafting change for consistency with other provision in Part 3 of the Bill which refer to power be exercise . amendment 143 , page 94 , line 38 , leave out " to produce and publish " and insert " — ( a ) to produce " . see the explanatory statement for Amendment 144 . amendment 144 , page 94 , line 41 , at end insert — " ( b ) to publish the guidance , and ( c ) to provide copy to specify person . " — ( Sir John Whittingdale . ) this amendment and Amendment 143 make clear that regulation under Part 3 may require a decision - maker to provide copy of its guidance . clause 71 - Enforcement of datum regulation Amendments make : 145 , page 95 , leave out line 4 to 7 and insert — " ( a ) for the purpose of monitor compliance with data regulation or requirement impose in exercise of a power confer by regulation under this Part , and ( b ) for the enforcement of datum regulation or such requirement , " include provision for monitoring or enforcement by a specified public authority ( an " enforcer " ) . " this amendment make clear that an enforcer ' s power may include power to monitor , as well as enforce , requirement . amendment 146 , page 95 , line 11 , after " of " insert " document or " . this amendment make clear that regulation under Part 3 may confer power on enforcer to require document ( as well as information ) to be provide . amendment 147 , page 95 , line 11 , after " information , " insert — " ( aa ) power to require an individual to attend at a place and answer question , " . this amendment enable regulation under Part 3 to confer power on an enforcer to require people to answer question in interview . amendment 148 , page 95 , line 28 , after " regulation " insert " , a requirement impose in exercise of a power confer by regulation under this Part " . this amendment enable regulation under Part 3 to confer power on an enforcer to publicly censure a person who fail to comply with a requirement impose on they in exercise of power confer by such regulation . amendment 149 , page 95 , line 29 , leave out from " with " to second " in " in line 30 and insert " an unlimited fine , or a fine not exceed a specified amount , " . this amendment remove word which be unnecessary give the definition of " specify " ( in clause 81 ) , which refer to matter specify in regulation under Part 3 . see also amendment 195 ( which amend that definition ) . amendment 150 , page 95 , line 34 , at end insert " , an interface body " . this amendment enable regulation under Part 3 to create an offence in respect of an act or omission which prevent an interface body ( see new clause NC27 ) from access information , document , equipment or other material . Amendment 151 , page 95 , line 41 , at end insert — " ( ba ) a failure to comply with a requirement impose in exercise of a power confer by regulation under this part ; " . this amendment enable regulation under Part 3 to provide for a financial penalty to be impose for a failure to comply with a requirement impose in exercise of a power confer by such regulation . amendment 152 , page 96 , line 13 , leave out " enforcement under the regulation " and insert " monitoring or enforcement describe in subsection ( 1 ) " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 145 . amendment 153 , page 96 , line 18 , leave out " carry out by a specified person " and insert " exercise by another person " . see the explanatory statement for Amendment 142 . amendment 154 , page 96 , line 28 , leave out " to produce and publish " and insert " — ( a ) to produce " . see the explanatory statement for Amendment 155 . amendment 155 , page 96 , line 31 , at end insert — " ( b ) to publish the guidance , and ( c ) to provide copy to specify person . " — ( Sir John Whittingdale . ) this amendment and Amendment 154 make clear that regulation under Part 3 may require an enforcer to provide copy of its guidance . clause 72 - restriction on power of investigation etc amendment make : 156 , page 96 , line 37 , after " decision - maker " insert " , an interface body " . this amendment and Amendment 157 be consequential on new clause NC27 , which enable regulation under Part 3 to confer monitor power ( include power to require information and document to be provide ) on interface body . amendment 157 , page 97 , line 29 , after " decision - maker " insert " , an interface body " — ( Sir John Whittingdale . ) see the explanatory statement for Amendment 156 . clause 73 - financial penalty Amendments make : 158 , page 98 , line 5 , leave out subsection ( 2 ) and insert — " ( 2 ) the regulation must provide for the amount of a financial penalty to be — ( a ) a specified amount or an amount determine in accordance with the regulation , or ( b ) an amount not exceed such an amount , unless section ( the FCA and financial service interface : penalty and levy ) confer power to provide otherwise . " this amendment make clear that regulation under Part 3 may specify the maximum amount of a financial penalty ( or a method for determine that ) instead of specify the amount itself ( or a method for determine that ) . it be also consequential on new clause NC30 . amendment 159 , page 98 , line 8 , leave out " issue " and insert " produce " . see the explanatory statement for Amendment 160 . amendment 160 , page 98 , line 11 , at end insert — " ( aa ) require an enforcer to publish the guidance and to provide copy to specify person ; " . this amendment and Amendment 159 make clear that regulation under Part 3 may require an enforcer to provide copy of its guidance . amendment 161 , page 98 , line 27 , leave out " circumstance specify in the regulation " and insert " specify circumstance " . this amendment simplify some wording which rely on the definition of " specify " in clause 81 . amendment 162 , page 98 , line 29 , leave out from " increase " to end of line 31 and insert " in the event of late payment by — ( i ) a specified amount or an amount determine in accordance with the regulation , or ( ii ) an amount not exceed such an amount ; " . — ( Sir John Whittingdale . ) this amendment make clear that regulation under Part 3 may specify the maximum amount by which a financial penalty may be increase in the event of late payment . clause 74 - fee Amendments make : 163 , page 99 , line 3 , at end insert — " ( ba ) interface body ; " . this amendment provide that regulation under Part 3 may make provision enable interface body ( see new clause NC27 ) to charge fee for perform duty , or exercise power , impose or confer by such regulation . amendment 164 , page 99 , line 20 , leave out subsection ( 5 ) and insert — " ( 5 ) regulation under subsection ( 1 ) may provide for the amount , or maximum amount , of a fee to increase at specify time and by — ( a ) a specified amount or an amount determine in accordance with the regulation , or ( b ) an amount not exceed such an amount . " — ( Sir John Whittingdale . ) this amendment make clear that regulation under Part 3 may specify the maximum amount by which fee may be increase . clause 75 - Levy Amendments make : 165 , page 99 , line 32 , leave out " body " and insert " authority " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 193 . amendment 166 , page 99 , line 33 , after " holder " insert " , authorise person or third party recipient " . this amendment enable a levy under clause 75 to be impose on authorise person ( as define in clause 66 ) and third party recipient ( as define in clause 68 ) , as well as on datum holder ( as define in clause 65 ) . amendment 167 , page 99 , line 34 , leave out " decision - maker or enforcer or by person " and insert " a person list in subsection ( 1A ) , or a person " . this amendment and Amendment 169 provide that regulation under Part 3 may impose a levy on data holder for the purpose of meeting expense incur by interface body ( see new clause NC27 ) and public authority subject to requirement impose under clause 68 ( 2A ) ( see Amendment 116 ) . amendment 168 , page 99 , line 35 , after " behalf " insert " , in perform duty , or exercise power , impose or confer by regulation under this Part " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 167 . it make clear that a levy under Part 3 can only be impose in connection with expense incur in the performance of duty , or the exercise of power , impose or confer by regulation under that part . Amendment 169 , page 99 , line 37 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) those person be — ( a ) decision - maker ; ( b ) interface body ; ( c ) enforcer ; ( d ) public authority subject to requirement impose by regulation make in reliance on section 68 ( 2A ) . " see the explanatory statement for Amendment 167 . amendment 170 , page 99 , line 39 , leave out " decision - maker or enforcer " and insert " a person " . this amendment be consequential on Amendments 167 and 169 . amendment 171 , page 99 , line 42 , leave out " decision - maker or enforcer " insert " person " . this amendment be consequential on Amendments 167 and 169 . amendment 172 , page 100 , line 1 , leave out " body " and insert " authority " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 193 . amendment 173 , page 100 , line 6 , leave out " body " and insert " public authority " . — ( Sir John Whittingdale . ) this amendment be consequential on Amendment 193 clause 76 - financial assistance Amendments make : 174 , page 100 , line 15 , leave out from " duty " to end of line 16 and insert " , or exercise power , impose or confer by regulation make under this part or exercise other function in connection with such regulation " . this amendment adjust the wording in clause 76 ( 1 ) for consistency with similar wording in clause 74 ( 1 ) and 75 ( 1 ) . amendment 175 , page 100 , line 17 , leave out subsection ( 2 ) and insert — " ( 2 ) but subsection ( 1 ) do not enable financial assistance to be provide to a person list in subsection ( 2A ) or to a person act on their behalf . ( 2A ) those person be — ( a ) data holder , ( b ) customer , ( c ) authorise person , or ( d ) third party recipient , other than a third party recipient that be a public authority subject to requirement impose by regulation make in reliance on section 68 ( 2A ) . " — ( Sir John Whittingdale . ) this amendment prevent the provision of financial assistance to people act on behalf of certain person . it also enable financial assistance to be provide to a public authority that be subject to requirement under clause 68 ( 2A ) ( see Amendment 116 ) . clause 78 - Regulations under this Part Amendments make : 176 , page 101 , line 11 , after " to " insert " standard , " . this amendment make clear that regulation under Part 3 may make provision by reference to publish standard . amendment 177 , page 101 , line 14 , at end insert " , and make provision in connection with the procedure for exercise the function ; " . this amendment make clear that regulation under Part 3 may make provision about the procedure for exercise function confer by the regulation . amendment 178 , page 101 , line 16 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) regulation under this Part may not require or enable a person to make rule impose requirement on a person , except as provide by section ( the FCA and financial service interface ) to ( the FCA and financial service interface : penalty and levy ) . " this amendment make clear that , subject to certain exception , regulation under Part 3 may not confer power to make rule . amendment 179 , page 101 , line 16 , at end insert — " ( 1b ) regulation under this Part may not require or enable a person to set the maximum amount of a fine , except that such regulation may make provision about the maximum amount refer to the standard scale , the statutory maximum or a similar amount . ( 1C ) regulation under this Part may not require or enable a person to set the amount or maximum amount of , or of an increase in , a penalty or fee or to set the method for determine such an amount , except as provide by subsection ( 1d ) and section ( the FCA and financial service interface : supplementary ) and ( the FCA and financial service interface : penalty and levy ) . ( 1D ) regulation under this part — ( a ) may make provision about the amount or method describe in subsection ( 1C ) refer to a published index , and ( b ) may require or enable a person to make decision , in accordance with a maximum amount or method set out in the regulation , about the amount of , or of an increase or reduction in , a penalty or fee payable in a particular case . " this amendment make clear that , subject to certain exception , amount of fine , penalty and fee must be set out on the face of regulation under Part 3 . amendment 180 , page 101 , line 18 , leave out " or repeal " and insert " , repeal or revoke " . this amendment and Amendment 185 be technical amendment . they make the power under clause 78 ( 2 ) to make regulation modify primary legislation consistent with the power under clause 114 . amendment 181 , page 101 , line 27 , leave out " and ( 2 ) " and insert " , ( 2 ) and ( 2A ) " . this amendment provide that the first regulation under new subsection ( 2A ) of clause 68 making provision about a particular description of business datum be subject to the affirmative resolution procedure . new subsection ( 2A ) be insert by amendment 116 . amendment 182 , page 101 , line 30 , at end insert " or interface body " . this amendment provide that regulation under clause 66 or 68 which make requirement more onerous for interface body ( see new clause NC27 ) be subject to the affirmative resolution procedure . amendment 183 , page 101 , line 31 , after " 70 ( 4 ) , " insert " ( interface body ) , " . this amendment provide that regulation confer monitor power on interface body ( see new clause NC27 ) be subject to the affirmative resolution procedure . amendment 184 , page 101 , line 31 , leave out " or 75 " and insert " , 75 , ( the FCA and financial service interface ) , ( the FCA and financial service interface : penalty and levy ) or ( liability in damage ) " . this amendment provide that regulation make under new clause NC28 , NC31 and NC31 be subject to the affirmative resolution procedure . amendment 185 , page 101 , line 32 , leave out " or repeal " and insert " , repeal or revoke " . see the explanatory statement for Amendment 180 . amendment 186 , page 101 , line 38 , at end insert " or representative of such person " . clause 78 ( 5 ) require the Secretary of State and the Treasury , where they consider it appropriate , to consult certain person before make regulation under Part 3 that be subject to the affirmative procedure . this amendment add representative of person likely to be affect by the regulation to the list of person to be consult . amendment 187 , page 102 , line 4 , leave out paragraph ( e ) . — ( Sir John Whittingdale . ) this amendment and Amendment 199 remove retain direct principal EU legislation from definition of " primary legislation " in provision about regulation - make power , reflect change to the status of retain direct EU legislation make by the Retained EU Law ( Revocation and Reform ) Act 2023 ( see section 9 and paragraph 13 of Schedule 3 ) . clause 81 - interpretation of this Part Amendments make : 188 , page 102 , line 28 , after " Part " insert " ( in addition to the term define in section 65 ) " . clause 81 list term define for Part 3 of the Bill . this amendment add a reference to term define for that Part in clause 65 . amendment 189 , page 102 , leave out line 29 and 30 and insert — " " application programming interface " mean a facility for allow software to make use of facility contain in other software ; " . this amendment replace the definition of " application programme interface " . amendment 190 , page 102 , leave out line 31 . this amendment remove the definition of " approve person " and be consequential on Amendment 118 . amendment 191 , page 103 , line 7 , at end insert — " " the FCA " have the meaning give by section ( the FCA and financial service interface ) ; " FCA additional requirement " have the meaning give by section ( the FCA and financial service interface ) ; " FCA interface rule " have the meaning give by section ( the FCA and financial service interface ) ; " . this amendment insert definition of " the FCA " , " FCA additional requirement " and " FCA interface rule " , cross - refer to new clause NC28 , which define those term to mean the Financial Conduct Authority and certain requirement impose , and rule make , by that Authority . Amendment 192 , page 103 , line 7 , at end insert — " " interface arrangement " have the meaning give by section ( interface body ) ; " interface body " have the meaning give by section ( interface body ) ; " interface standard " have the meaning give by section ( interface body ) ; " . this amendment insert into the interpretation clause for Part 3 definition of term introduce in new clause NC27 . amendment 193 , page 103 , line 15 , leave out " body " mean a body or other " and insert " authority " mean a " . this amendment change a definition of " public body " to a definition of " public authority " , to reflect the fact that the definition include person other than body . amendment 194 , page 103 , leave out line 18 and 19 . this amendment remove an unnecessary qualification of the definition of " public body " relate to person whose function include , but be not limit to , function of a public nature . amendment 195 , page 103 , line 24 , at end insert " , or in exercise of a power confer by such regulation , except to the extent otherwise provide in this Part " . this amendment amend the definition of " specify " to make clear that that term generally include something specify in exercise of a power confer by regulation under Part 3 . amendment 196 , page 103 , line 25 , leave out " 68 ( 1 ) ( b ) " and insert " 68 ( 1A ) " . — ( Sir John Whittingdale . ) this amendment be consequential on Amendments 114 and 115 . clause 87 - direct marketing for the purpose of democratic engagement Amendment propose : 218 , page 110 , line 1 , leave out clause 87 . — ( Sir Chris Bryant . ) question put , that the amendment be make . Debbie Abrahams Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Jon Ashworth Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Hilary Benn Ian Blackford Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Nick Brown Chris Bryant Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Daisy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Neil Coyle Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Ashley Dalton Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Martin Docherty Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Jonathan Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Chris Elmore Bill Esterson Chris Evans Marion Fellows Colleen Fletcher Richard Foord Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Paulette Hamilton Carolyn Harris draw Hendry Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Darren Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Peter Kyle Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood David Linden Tony Lloyd Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Kenny MacAskill Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Ian Murray James Murray Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Matthew Pennycook Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Lucy Powell Angela Rayner Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Liz Saville - Roberts Michael Shanks Virendra Sharma Tommy Sheppard Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Nick Smith Alex Sobel John Spellar Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Alistair Strathern Zarah Sultana Alison Thewliss Gareth Thomas Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Andrew Western Gerald Jones Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Scott Benton Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Karen Bradley Suella Braverman Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Alberto Costa Geoffrey Cox Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Lucy Frazer George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Green Damian Green James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Adam Holloway Paul Holmes Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Alister Jack Ranil Jayawardena Mark Jenkinson Andrea Jenkyns Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger Kwasi Kwarteng John Lamont Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Mark Menzies Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Mary Robinson Lee Rowley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chris Skidmore Chloe Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Gary Streeter Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Robert Largan Gagan Mohindra the House divide : Ayes 194 , Noes 275 . question accordingly negative . amendment make : 253 , page 110 , line 4 , leave out paragraph ( a ) and insert — " ( a ) fall within subsection ( 2 ) , and " . this amendment and Amendment 254 be consequential on the insertion of a new definition of " democratic engagement " by Amendment 256 . amendment 254 , page 110 , leave out line 6 and 7 and insert — " ( 2 ) communication activity fall within this subsection if — " . see the explanatory statement for Amendment 253 . amendment 255 , page 110 , line 13 , leave out sub - paragraph ( i ) and ( ii ) and insert — " ( i ) by , or at the instigation of , a register political party , and ( ii ) for the purpose of the party ' s election activity or democratic engagement activity , " . — ( Sir John Whittingdale . ) this amendment clarify the type of processing by a register political party that fall within clause 87 ( 2 ) ( processing that may be the subject of an exception from a direct marketing provision in the PEC Regulations ( define in clause 82 ) ) . see also the definition insert by Amendments 256 , 260 and 261 . clause 88 - meaning of expression in section 87 Amendments make : 256 , page 111 , leave out line 7 and insert — " ( A1 ) for the purpose of section 87 ( 2 ) ( a ) and ( b ) — ( a ) " democratic engagement activity " mean activity whose purpose be to support or promote democratic engagement ; ( b ) " democratic engagement " mean engagement by the public , a section of the public or a particular person with , or with an aspect of , an electoral system or other democratic process in the United Kingdom , either generally or in connection with a particular matter , whether by participate in the system or process or engage with it in another way ; ( c ) example of democratic engagement activity include activity whose purpose be — ( i ) to promote the registration of individual as elector ; ( ii ) to increase the number of elector participate in election for elect representative , referendum or process for recall petition in which they be entitle to participate ; ( iii ) to support an elect representative or register political party in discharge function , or carry on other activity , describe in section section 87 ( 2 ) ( a ) or ( b ) ; ( iv ) to support a person to become a candidate for election as an elect representative ; ( v ) to support a campaign or campaigning refer to in section 87 ( 2 ) ( c ) , ( d ) or ( e ) ; ( vi ) to raise fund to support activity whose purpose be describe in sub - paragraph ( i ) to ( v ) ; ( d ) example of activity that may be democratic engagement activity include — ( i ) gather opinion , whether by carry out a survey or by other mean ; ( ii ) communicate with elector . ( 1 ) in section 87 and this section — " this amendment clarify the meaning of " democratic engagement activity " in clause 87 , which confer power on the Secretary of State to create exception from direct marketing provision in the PEC Regulations ( define in clause 82 ) for certain communication activity . amendment 257 , page 111 , leave out line 18 and 19 . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 256 . Amendment 258 , page 111 , line 26 , after " ( 4 ) " insert " and ( 4A ) " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 264 . amendment 259 , page 111 , line 26 , leave out " and ( 5 ) " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 265 . amendment 260 , page 111 , line 26 , at end insert — " " election activity " , in relation to a register political party , mean — ( a ) campaigning in connection with an election for an elect representative , and ( b ) activity whose purpose be to enhance the standing of the party , or of a candidate stand for election in its name , with elector ; " elector " mean a person who be entitle to vote in an election for an elect representative or in a referendum ; " this amendment insert definition of term use in provision insert by Amendments 255 and 256 . Amendment 261 , page 111 , line 33 , at end insert — " " register political party " mean a person or organisation include in a register maintain under section 23 of the Political Parties , Elections and Referendums Act 2000 ; " successful " , in relation to a recall petition , have the same meaning as in the Recall of MPs Act 2015 ( see section 14 of that Act ) . " this amendment insert a definition of term use in provision insert by Amendments 255 , 256 and 264 . Amendment 262 , page 112 , line 39 , at end insert — " ( ga ) a mayor for the area of a combine county authority establish under section 9 of the Levelling - up and Regeneration Act 2023 section 118a of the Representation of the People Act 1983 , as apply by the Combined Authorities ( Mayoral Elections ) Order 2017 ( S . I . 2017 / 67 ) " this amendment add mayor for the area of a combine county authority establish under section 9 of the Levelling - up and Regeneration Act 2023 to the list of elect representative for the purpose of clause 87 ( exception from direct marketing provision under the PEC Regulations ) . Amendment 263 , page 113 , line 31 , leave out " period of 30 day begin with the day after the " . this amendment decrease the period for which former mp and member of the devolved legislature continue to be treat as " elect representative " for the purpose of clause 87 ( exception from direct marketing provision under the PEC Regulations ) follow a general election . amendment 264 , page 113 , line 32 , at end insert — " ( 4A ) for the purpose of the definition of " elect representative " in subsection ( 1 ) , where a member of the House of Commons ' s seat become vacant as a result of a successful recall petition , that person be to be treat as if they be a member of the House of Commons until the end of the day on which the result by - election be hold or , if early , the day on which the next general election in relation to Parliament be hold . " this amendment extend the period for which a member of the House of Commons who be the subject of a successful recall petition continue to be treat as an " elect representative " for the purpose of clause 87 ( exception from direct marketing provision under the PEC Regulations ) . amendment 265 , page 113 , line 33 , leave out subsection ( 5 ) . — ( Sir John Whittingdale . ) this amendment remove the extension of the period for which former elect member of the Common Council of the City of London be treat as continue to be " elect representative " for the purpose of clause 87 ( exception from direct marketing provision under the PEC Regulations ) follow the annual Wardmotes . clause 98 - disclosure of information to improve public service delivery to undertaking Amendment make : 197 , page 125 , line 14 , leave out " the law in Scotland and " and insert " part of the law of Scotland or " . — ( Sir John Whittingdale . ) this amendment make a minor change , replace a reference to section 35 of the Digital Economy Act 2017 form the law in Scotland and Northern Ireland with a reference to that section form part of the law of Scotland or Northern Ireland . clause 109 - transfer of function to the Information Commission Amendment make : 198 , page 131 , line 37 , leave out " retain direct EU " and insert " assimilate direct " . — ( Sir John Whittingdale . ) this amendment replace a reference to " retain direct EU legislation " in a definition of " enactment " with a reference to " assimilate direct legislation " , reflect change make by section 5 of the Retained EU Law ( Revocation and Reform ) Act 2023 . clause 114 - power to make consequential amendment Amendment make : 199 , page 137 , line 29 , leave out paragraph ( e ) . — ( Sir John Whittingdale . ) see the explanatory statement for Amendment 187 . clause 118 - Extent Amendment make : 200 , page 138 , line 35 , at end insert — " ( aa ) section ( National Underground Asset Register ) and Schedule ( National Underground Asset Register : monetary penalty ) ( National Underground Asset Register ) ; ( ab ) section ( pre - commencement consultation ) and ( transfer of certain function to Secretary of State ) ( other provision in connection with National Underground Asset Register ) ; " . — ( Sir John Whittingdale . ) this amendment amend clause 118 of the Bill ( extent ) to provide that the new clause insert by amendment NC39 , NC41 and NC42 and the new Schedule insert by amendment NS2 extend to England and Wales only . clause 119 - Commencement Amendments make : 201 , page 139 , line 7 , at end insert — " ( za ) section ( search in response to data subject ' request ) ( search in response to data subject ' request ) ; " . this amendment provide for new clause NC7 to come into force on Royal Assent . amendment 202 , page 139 , line 9 , at end insert — " ( ba ) section ( retention of biometric datum and recordable offence ) ( retention of biometric datum and recordable offence ) ; " . this amendment provide for new clause NC36 to come into force on Royal Assent . amendment 203 , page 139 , line 9 , at end insert — " ( bb ) section ( retention of pseudonymise biometric datum ) ( retention of pseudonymise biometric datum ) ; " . this amendment provide for new clause NC37 to come into force on Royal Assent . amendment 204 , page 139 , line 9 , at end insert — " ( bc ) section ( retention of biometric datum from INTERPOL ) ( retention of biometric datum from INTERPOL ) ; " . this amendment provide for new clause NC38 to come into force on Royal Assent . amendment 205 , page 139 , line 11 , after " Act " insert " ( include provision modify other legislation ) " . this amendment make clear that the provision bring into force by clause 119 ( 2 ) ( d ) on the day on which the Bill be pass ( regulation - make power and associate provision ) include provision insert into other legislation by the Bill . amendment 206 , page 139 , line 19 , at end insert — " ( ca ) section ( notice from the Information Commissioner ) ( notice from the Information Commissioner ) ; " . this amendment provide for new clause nc8 to come into force 2 month after Royal Assent . amendment 207 , page 139 , line 20 , at end insert — " ( da ) section ( power to require information for social security purpose ) and Schedule ( Power to require information for social security purpose ) ( power to require information for social security purpose ) ; " . — ( Sir John Whittingdale . ) this amendment provide for new clause NC34 and new Schedule ns1 to come into force two month after Royal Assent . new Schedule 1 - power to require information for social security purpose " Part 1 - Social security administration act 1992 1 the Social Security Administration Act 1992 be amend as follow . 2 in section 109B ( power to require information ) , after subsection ( 6 ) insert — " ( 6a ) nothing in this section limit the power confer on the Secretary of State by Schedule 3b . " 3 in section 111 ( delay , obstruction etc of inspector ) , in subsection ( 1 ) ( b ) , after " otherwise than " insert " under schedule 3b or " . 4 in Part 7 ( information ) , before section 121e ( and the italic head before it ) insert — " account information 121DB Power to require account information schedule 3b make provision about a power for the Secretary of State to obtain account information . " 5 in section 190 ( parliamentary control of order and regulation ) , in subsection ( 1 ) , omit the " or " after paragraph ( ab ) and after paragraph ( b ) insert " , or ( c ) regulation under paragraph 1 ( 1 ) , 9 ( 3 ) ( a ) or 12 of schedule 3b , " 6 after Schedule 3A insert — " schedule 3b - Power of secretary of state to require account information Part 1 - power to require account information power to give account information notice ( 1 ) the Secretary of State may give an account information notice to a person of a prescribed description require the person to provide information as set out in paragraph 2 in connection with account that the person administer or to which the person have access . ( 2 ) the power may be exercise only for the purpose of assist the Secretary of State in identify case which merit further consideration to establish whether relevant benefit be be pay or have be pay in accordance with the enactment and rule of law relate to those benefit . account information notice 2 ( 1 ) an account information notice be a notice require a person to give the Secretary of State — ( a ) the name of the holder of account that the person identify as be match account in relation to a specified relevant benefit , ( b ) other specify information relate to the holder of those account , and ( c ) such further information in connection with those account as may be specify . ( 2 ) an account information notice — ( a ) may require information relate to a person who hold a matching account even if the person do not claim a relevant benefit ; ( b ) may not require information relate to any person who do not hold a matching account . ( 3 ) " matching account " , in relation to a specified relevant benefit , be account — ( a ) link to the receipt of that benefit , and ( b ) in relation to which specify criterion relevant to that benefit , or specify criterion include such criterion , be meet ( for example , criterion about account balance or transaction outside the United Kingdom ) . ( 4 ) depend on the provision make by an account information notice , an account link to the receipt of a relevant benefit may be a matching account if specify criterion be meet in relation to a combination of account that include that account . ( 5 ) an account be to be regard as link to the receipt of a particular relevant benefit if it be — ( a ) an account into which the benefit be ( or be to be ) pay , ( b ) an account into which the benefit have be pay , or ( c ) an account link to an account within paragraph ( a ) or ( b ) . ( 6 ) an account be to be regard as link to another if the same person hold both account . ( 7 ) an account information notice may not be frame in such a way as to require a person to interrogate historic datum . ( 8 ) Data be historic , in relation to a day when a person carry out a process to identify matching account , if it relate to a time before the beginning of the period of one year end with that day . ( 9 ) information provide to the Secretary of State on a particular day in response to an account information notice must relate to account identify by mean of a process carry out no more than seven day before that day . ( 10 ) in this paragraph and paragraph 3 " specified " mean — ( a ) in the case of a relevant benefit , specify or denote by a code in an account information notice ; ( b ) in every other case , specify or describe in an account information notice . further provision about account information notice 3 ( 1 ) an account information notice may require the provision of document , include the provision of a legible and intelligible copy of information record otherwise than in a legible form , and reference in this schedule to the provision of information be to be read accordingly . ( 2 ) an account information notice may require information to be provide at specify interval for a period not exceed one year from the date of the notice . ( 3 ) an account information notice other than one within sub - paragraph ( 2 ) must state the date by which or the period within which the information must be provide . ( 4 ) an account information notice must give detail about — ( a ) right of appeal , and ( b ) the consequence of not comply with the notice . ( 5 ) an account information notice may require information — ( a ) to be compile or collate in a specified manner ; ( b ) to be provide in a specify way ( include by electronic transmission to a specified address or portal ) . ( 6 ) the Secretary of State may vary or cancel an account information notice by notice to the person to whom it be give . restriction on processing and data protection ( 1 ) except as provide by sub - paragraph ( 2 ) , processing of information carry out in compliance with an account information notice do not breach — ( a ) any obligation of confidence owe by the person process the information , or ( b ) any other restriction on the processing of information ( however impose ) . ( 2 ) the power confer by paragraph 1 do not authorise , and be not exercisable to require — ( a ) processing of personal datum that would contravene the data protection legislation ( but in determine whether processing of personal datum would do so , that power be to be take into account ) ; ( b ) processing of information that be prohibit by any of Parts 1 to 7 or chapter 1 of Part 9 of the Investigatory Powers Act 2016 . use of information 5 ( 1 ) information provide to the Secretary of State in response to an account information notice may be use by the Secretary of State only for the purpose of , or for any purpose connect with , the exercise of departmental function . ( 2 ) " departmental function " have the same meaning as in section 127 of the Welfare Reform Act 2012 . part 2 - Code of practice Code of practice 6 ( 1 ) the Secretary of State may issue a code of practice in connection with account information notice . ( 2 ) such a code may , in particular , include — ( a ) provision about consideration relevant to — ( i ) the exercise of power confer by Part 1 ; ( ii ) the imposition of penalty under Part 3 ; ( b ) provision design to assist person give account information notice in comply with such notice ; ( c ) provision about complaint in connection with such notice . ( 3 ) if the Secretary of State decide to issue a code of practice , the Secretary of State must first prepare and publish a draft of the code of practice . ( 4 ) if the Secretary of State consider it appropriate to proceed after consider any representation make concern the draft and make any change that the Secretary of State consider appropriate , the Secretary of State must — ( a ) issue the code of practice , and ( b ) lie it before Parliament . ( 5 ) the code of practice come into force on the day on which it be issue . code of practice : revision 7 ( 1 ) the Secretary of State may from time to time revise and re - issue the code of practice . ( 2 ) sub - paragraph ( 3 ) to ( 5 ) of paragraph 6 apply in relation to a re - issue of the code of practice as they apply in relation to the first code of practice . ( 3 ) but sub - paragraph ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) of paragraph 6 do not apply if the only change to be make to the code of practice be — ( a ) update of reference to legislation or document which have become out of date , or ( b ) other minor correction . ( 4 ) the Secretary of State may withdraw a code of practice . code of practice : further provision 8 ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must have regard to a code of practice that be for the time be in force under this Part in exercise , or decide whether to exercise , any function to which the code of practice be relevant . ( 2 ) a person ' s failure to observe any provision of a code of practice do not of itself make the person liable to any legal proceeding . ( 3 ) a code of practice be admissible in evidence in any legal proceeding . part 3 - penalty Penalties for failure to comply 9 ( 1 ) if the Secretary of State consider that a person who have be give an account information notice have fail to comply with it , the Secretary of State must give the person an opportunity to make representation about the failure . ( 2 ) sub - paragraph ( 3 ) apply if , have consider any representation that be make , the Secretary of State have reasonable ground to believe that the person have fail to comply with the account information notice and have no reasonable excuse for the failure . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State may give the person — ( a ) a notice require the person to pay a penalty of a prescribed amount ( a " fix penalty " ) ; ( b ) a notice require the person to pay a penalty calculate by reference to a daily rate ( a " daily rate penalty " ) ; ( c ) a notice require the person to pay a fix penalty and a daily rate penalty . ( 4 ) a notice under sub - paragraph ( 3 ) be refer to in this schedule as a penalty notice . ( 5 ) a penalty notice impose a fix penalty must state — ( a ) the amount of the penalty , and ( b ) the period within which it must be pay . ( 6 ) a penalty notice impose a daily rate penalty must — ( a ) state the daily rate of the penalty , ( b ) state the date from which the penalty will begin to be payable , which must not be early than the day after the last date on which an appeal against the penalty may be bring under paragraph 14 , and ( c ) state that the penalty will continue to be payable at the daily rate until the date on which the person comply with the account information notice or such early date as may be specify . ( 7 ) a penalty notice must also include information as to — ( a ) the failure to which the penalty relate , ( b ) how payment may be make , ( c ) right of appeal , and ( d ) the consequence of non - payment ( include , in the case of a daily rate penalty , the potential for the penalty to be increase as describe in paragraph 10 ) . ( 8 ) the Secretary of State may vary or cancel a penalty notice by notice to the person to whom it be give . ( 9 ) the maximum amount of a fix penalty that may be prescribe be £ 1 , 000 . ( 10 ) subject to paragraph 10 , the daily rate of a daily rate penalty be to be such rate as the Secretary of State consider appropriate but it must not exceed £ 40 . increase daily rate penalty 10 ( 1 ) this paragraph apply if — ( a ) a daily rate penalty be impose on a person by a penalty notice , and ( b ) the failure to which the penalty relate continue for more than 30 day begin with the first date on which the daily rate penalty be payable . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State may make an application to the Tribunal for an increase daily rate penalty to be payable by the person . ( 3 ) the Tribunal may determine that an increase daily rate penalty should be payable , and in that case , must determine the increase daily rate and the date from which the increase penalty will begin to be payable . ( 4 ) in decide the increase daily rate , the Tribunal must , in particular , have regard to — ( a ) the likely cost to the person of not comply with the account information notice , ( b ) any benefit to the person of not comply with it , and ( c ) any benefit to anyone else result from the person ' s non - compliance . ( 5 ) the Tribunal may not determine a daily rate that exceed £ 1 , 000 . ( 6 ) the Secretary of State must notify the person of the Tribunal ' s determination . recovery of penalty 11 ( 1 ) in England and Wales , a penalty be recoverable — ( a ) if the county court so order , as if it be payable under an order of that court ; ( b ) if the High Court so order , as if it be payable under an order of that court . ( 2 ) in Scotland , a penalty may be enforce in the same manner as an extract register decree arbitral bear a warrant for execution issue by the sheriff court of any sheriffdom in Scotland . ( 3 ) in this paragraph " penalty " mean a penalty impose by a penalty notice . power to change maximum amount of penalty 12 Regulations may amend the amount for the time be specify in paragraph 9 ( 9 ) or ( 10 ) or 10 ( 5 ) to reflect a change in the value of money . part 4 - Appeals Appeals against account information notice 13 ( 1 ) a person who be give an account information notice may appeal to the Tribunal against the notice , or any requirement of it , on any of the follow ground — ( a ) the person be not a person to whom a notice may be give , ( b ) a requirement of the notice be inconsistent with provision make by paragraph 2 , or ( c ) it be unduly onerous to comply with the notice or requirement . ( 2 ) notice of an appeal under sub - paragraph ( 1 ) must be give before the end of the period of 30 day begin with the date on which the account information notice be give . ( 3 ) on an appeal under sub - paragraph ( 1 ) , the Tribunal may confirm , vary or quash the account information notice or a requirement of it , include by vary the period within which , or the frequency with which , information be to be provide . ( 4 ) if an appeal be bring against an account information notice or any requirement of it , the notice or requirement ( as the case may be ) be of no effect until the appeal be determine or withdraw , unless the Tribunal order otherwise . appeal against penalty notice 14 ( 1 ) a person who be give a penalty notice may appeal to the Tribunal against — ( a ) the notice , ( b ) the amount of the penalty , or ( c ) in the case of a daily rate penalty , the period during which the daily amount be payable . ( 2 ) but sub - paragraph ( 1 ) ( b ) do not give a right of appeal against the amount of an increase daily rate penalty determine by the Tribunal under paragraph 10 . ( 3 ) notice of an appeal under sub - paragraph ( 1 ) must be give before the end of the period of 30 day begin with the date on which the penalty notice be give . ( 4 ) on an appeal under sub - paragraph ( 1 ) , the Tribunal may — ( a ) confirm or quash the decision to impose the penalty , ( b ) confirm or vary the amount of the penalty , ( c ) confirm or vary the period within which all or part of the penalty be to be pay . ( 5 ) if an appeal be bring under sub - paragraph ( 1 ) , the penalty which be the subject of the appeal be not payable until the appeal be determine or withdraw . appeal : further provision 15 ( 1 ) if the Tribunal confirm or vary an account information notice or a penalty notice on an appeal under this Part , the person to whom the notice be give must comply with the notice — ( a ) within such period as may be specify by the Tribunal , or ( b ) if the Tribunal do not specify a period , within such period as may be specify by the Secretary of State and notify to the person . ( 2 ) a decision by the Tribunal on an appeal under this Part be final ( despite the provision of section 11 and 13 of the Tribunals , Courts and Enforcement Act 2007 ) . part 5 - General provision and interpretation relevant benefit 16 in this Schedule " relevant benefit " mean any of the following — ( a ) a relevant social security benefit as define in section 121DA ( 7 ) ; ( b ) a child tax credit or work tax credit under the Tax Credits Act 2002 ; ( c ) a payment , as mention in subsection ( 2 ) ( d ) of section 2 of the Employment and Training Act 1973 , under arrangement make under that section . account 17 in this schedule any reference to a person who hold an account include a reference to — ( a ) a person who hold an account jointly with one or more other person , and ( b ) a person who be a signatory , or one of the signatory , to an account , and " holder " be to be construe accordingly . general interpretation 18 in this schedule — " account " include a financial product ; " account information notice " have the meaning give in paragraph 2 ; " benefit " include any allowance , payment , credit or loan ; " cryptoasset " mean a cryptographically secure digital representation of value or contractual right that — ( a ) can be transfer , store or trade electronically , and ( b ) use technology support the recording or storage of datum ( which may include distribute ledger technology ) ; " the data protection legislation " have the same meaning as in the Data Protection Act 2018 ( see section 3 ( 9 ) of that Act ) ; " document " mean anything in which information ( in whatever form ) be record ; " financial product " include a cryptoasset ; " notice " mean notice in writing , and " notify " be to be read accordingly ; " penalty notice " be define in paragraph 9 ( 4 ) ; " personal datum " have the same meaning as in the Data Protection Act 2018 ( see section 3 ( 2 ) of that Act ) ; " process " have the same meaning as in that Act ( see section 3 ( 4 ) of that Act ) ; " the Tribunal " mean the first - tier Tribunal . relationship with other power 19 nothing in this schedule limit the power confer on the Secretary of State by section 109B ( power to require information ) . " part 2 - Social security administration ( northern ireland ) act 1992 7 the Social Security Administration ( Northern Ireland ) Act 1992 be amend as follow . 8 in section 103b ( power to require information ) , after subsection ( 6 ) insert — " ( 6a ) nothing in this section limit the power confer on the Department by Schedule 3b . " 9 in section 105 ( delay , obstruction etc of inspector ) , in subsection ( 1 ) ( b ) , after " otherwise than " insert " under schedule 3b or " . 10 in Part 7 ( information ) , before section 115d ( and the italic head before it ) insert — " account information 115CB Power to require account information schedule 3b make provision about a power for the Department to obtain account information . " 11 in section 166 ( Assembly , etc . control of order and regulation ) , after subsection ( 2 ) ( b ) insert — " ( c ) to any regulation under paragraph 1 ( 1 ) , 9 ( 3 ) ( a ) or 12 of schedule 3b . " 12 after Schedule 3A insert — " schedule 3b - Power of department to require account information Part 1 - power to require account information power to give account information notice ( 1 ) the Department may give an account information notice to a person of a prescribed description require the person to provide information as set out in paragraph 2 in connection with account that the person administer or to which the person have access . ( 2 ) the power may be exercise only for the purpose of assist the Department in identify case which merit further consideration to establish whether relevant benefit be be pay or have be pay in accordance with the statutory provision and rule of law relate to those benefit . account information notice 2 ( 1 ) an account information notice be a notice require a person to give the Department — ( a ) the name of the holder of account that the person identify as be match account in relation to a specified relevant benefit , ( b ) other specify information relate to the holder of those account , and ( c ) such further information in connection with those account as may be specify . ( 2 ) an account information notice — ( a ) may require information relate to a person who hold a matching account even if the person do not claim a relevant benefit ; ( b ) may not require information relate to any person who do not hold a matching account . ( 3 ) " matching account " , in relation to a specified relevant benefit , be account — ( a ) link to the receipt of that benefit , and ( b ) in relation to which specify criterion relevant to that benefit , or specify criterion include such criterion , be meet ( for example , criterion about account balance or transaction outside the United Kingdom ) . ( 4 ) depend on the provision make by an account information notice , an account link to the receipt of a relevant benefit may be a matching account if specify criterion be meet in relation to a combination of account that include that account . ( 5 ) an account be to be regard as link to the receipt of a particular relevant benefit if it be — ( a ) an account into which the benefit be ( or be to be ) pay , ( b ) an account into which the benefit have be pay , or ( c ) an account link to an account within paragraph ( a ) or ( b ) . ( 6 ) an account be to be regard as link to another if the same person hold both account . ( 7 ) an account information notice may not be frame in such a way as to require a person to interrogate historic datum . ( 8 ) Data be historic , in relation to a day when a person carry out a process to identify matching account , if it relate to a time before the beginning of the period of one year end with that day . ( 9 ) information provide to the Department on a particular day in response to an account information notice must relate to account identify by mean of a process carry out no more than seven day before that day . ( 10 ) in this paragraph and paragraph 3 " specified " mean — ( a ) in the case of a relevant benefit , specify or denote by a code in an account information notice ; ( b ) in every other case , specify or describe in an account information notice . further provision about account information notice 3 ( 1 ) an account information notice may require the provision of document , include the provision of a legible and intelligible copy of information record otherwise than in a legible form , and reference in this schedule to the provision of information be to be read accordingly . ( 2 ) an account information notice may require information to be provide at specify interval for a period not exceed one year from the date of the notice . ( 3 ) an account information notice other than one within sub - paragraph ( 2 ) must state the date by which or the period within which the information must be provide . ( 4 ) an account information notice must give detail about — ( a ) right of appeal , and ( b ) the consequence of not comply with the notice . ( 5 ) an account information notice may require information — ( a ) to be compile or collate in a specified manner ; ( b ) to be provide in a specify way ( include by electronic transmission to a specified address or portal ) . ( 6 ) the Department may vary or cancel an account information notice by notice to the person to whom it be give . restriction on processing and data protection ( 1 ) except as provide by sub - paragraph ( 2 ) , processing of information carry out in compliance with an account information notice do not breach — ( a ) any obligation of confidence owe by the person process the information , or ( b ) any other restriction on the processing of information ( however impose ) . ( 2 ) the power confer by paragraph 1 do not authorise , and be not exercisable to require — ( a ) processing of personal datum that would contravene the data protection legislation ( but in determine whether processing of personal datum would do so , that power be to be take into account ) ; ( b ) processing of information that be prohibit by any of Parts 1 to 7 or chapter 1 of Part 9 of the Investigatory Powers Act 2016 . use of information 5 ( 1 ) information provide to the Department in response to an account information notice may be use by the Department only for the purpose of , or for any purpose connect with , the exercise of departmental function . ( 2 ) " departmental function " have the same meaning as in section 127 of the Welfare Reform Act 2012 . part 2 - Code of practice Code of practice 6 ( 1 ) the Department may issue a code of practice in connection with account information notice . ( 2 ) such a code may , in particular , include — ( a ) provision about consideration relevant to — ( i ) the exercise of power confer by Part 1 ; ( ii ) the imposition of penalty under Part 3 ; ( b ) provision design to assist person give account information notice in comply with such notice ; ( c ) provision about complaint in connection with such notice . ( 3 ) if the Department decide to issue a code of practice , the Department must first prepare and publish a draft of the code of practice . ( 4 ) if the Department consider it appropriate to proceed after consider any representation make concern the draft and make any change that the Department consider appropriate , the Department must — ( a ) issue the code of practice , and ( b ) lie it before the Assembly . ( 5 ) the code of practice come into force on the day on which it be issue . code of practice : revision 7 ( 1 ) the Department may from time to time revise and re - issue the code of practice . ( 2 ) sub - paragraph ( 3 ) to ( 5 ) of paragraph 6 apply in relation to a re - issue of the code of practice as they apply in relation to the first code of practice . ( 3 ) but sub - paragraph ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) of paragraph 6 do not apply if the only change to be make to the code of practice be — ( a ) update of reference to legislation or document which have become out of date , or ( b ) other minor correction . ( 4 ) the Department may withdraw a code of practice . code of practice : further provision 8 ( 1 ) the Department must have regard to a code of practice that be for the time be in force under this Part in exercise , or decide whether to exercise , any function to which the code of practice be relevant . ( 2 ) a person ' s failure to observe any provision of a code of practice do not of itself make the person liable to any legal proceeding . ( 3 ) a code of practice be admissible in evidence in any legal proceeding . part 3 - penalty Penalties for failure to comply 9 ( 1 ) if the Department consider that a person who have be give an account information notice have fail to comply with it , the Department must give the person an opportunity to make representation about the failure . ( 2 ) sub - paragraph ( 3 ) apply if , have consider any representation that be make , the Department have reasonable ground to believe that the person have fail to comply with the account information notice and have no reasonable excuse for the failure . ( 3 ) the Department may give the person — ( a ) a notice require the person to pay a penalty of a prescribed amount ( a " fix penalty " ) ; ( b ) a notice require the person to pay a penalty calculate by reference to a daily rate ( a " daily rate penalty " ) ; ( c ) a notice require the person to pay a fix penalty and a daily rate penalty . ( 4 ) a notice under sub - paragraph ( 3 ) be refer to in this schedule as a penalty notice . ( 5 ) a penalty notice impose a fix penalty must state — ( a ) the amount of the penalty , and ( b ) the period within which it must be pay . ( 6 ) a penalty notice impose a daily rate penalty must — ( a ) state the daily rate of the penalty , ( b ) state the date from which the penalty will begin to be payable , which must not be early than the day after the last date on which an appeal against the penalty may be bring under paragraph 14 , and ( c ) state that the penalty will continue to be payable at the daily rate until the date on which the person comply with the account information notice or such early date as may be specify . ( 7 ) a penalty notice must also include information as to — ( a ) the failure to which the penalty relate , ( b ) how payment may be make , ( c ) right of appeal , and ( d ) the consequence of non - payment ( include , in the case of a daily rate penalty , the potential for the penalty to be increase as describe in paragraph 10 ) . ( 8 ) the Department may vary or cancel a penalty notice by notice to the person to whom it be give . ( 9 ) the maximum amount of a fix penalty that may be prescribe be £ 1 , 000 . ( 10 ) subject to paragraph 10 , the daily rate of a daily rate penalty be to be such rate as the Department consider appropriate but it must not exceed £ 40 . increase daily rate penalty 10 ( 1 ) this paragraph apply if — ( a ) a daily rate penalty be impose on a person by a penalty notice , and ( b ) the failure to which the penalty relate continue for more than 30 day begin with the first date on which the daily rate penalty be payable . ( 2 ) the Department may make an application to the Tribunal for an increase daily rate penalty to be payable by the person . ( 3 ) the Tribunal may determine that an increase daily rate penalty should be payable , and in that case , must determine the increase daily rate and the date from which the increase penalty will begin to be payable . ( 4 ) in decide the increase daily rate , the Tribunal must , in particular , have regard to — ( a ) the likely cost to the person of not comply with the account information notice , ( b ) any benefit to the person of not comply with it , and ( c ) any benefit to anyone else result from the person ' s non - compliance . ( 5 ) the Tribunal may not determine a daily rate that exceed £ 1 , 000 . ( 6 ) the Department must notify the person of the Tribunal ' s determination . recovery of penalty 11 a penalty impose by a penalty notice be recoverable — ( a ) if a county court so order , as if it be payable under an order of that court ; ( b ) if the High Court so order , as if it be payable under an order of that Court . power to change maximum amount of penalty 12 Regulations may amend the amount for the time be specify in paragraph 9 ( 9 ) or ( 10 ) or 10 ( 5 ) to reflect a change in the value of money . part 4 - Appeals Appeals against account information notice 13 ( 1 ) a person who be give an account information notice may appeal to the Tribunal against the notice , or any requirement of it , on any of the follow ground — ( a ) the person be not a person to whom the notice may be give , ( b ) a requirement of the notice be inconsistent with provision make by paragraph 2 , or ( c ) it be unduly onerous to comply with the notice or requirement . ( 2 ) notice of an appeal under sub - paragraph ( 1 ) must be give before the end of the period of 30 day begin with the date on which the account information notice be give . ( 3 ) on an appeal under sub - paragraph ( 1 ) , the Tribunal may confirm , vary or quash the account information notice or a requirement of it , include by vary the period within which , or the frequency with which , information be to be provide . ( 4 ) if an appeal be bring against an account information notice or any requirement of it , the notice or requirement ( as the case may be ) be of no effect until the appeal be determine or withdraw , unless the Tribunal order otherwise . appeal against penalty notice 14 ( 1 ) a person who be give a penalty notice may appeal to the Tribunal against — ( a ) the notice , ( b ) the amount of the penalty , or ( c ) in the case of a daily rate penalty , the period during which the daily amount be payable . ( 2 ) but sub - paragraph ( 1 ) ( b ) do not give a right of appeal against the amount of an increase daily rate penalty determine by the Tribunal under paragraph 10 . ( 3 ) notice of an appeal under sub - paragraph ( 1 ) must be give before the end of the period of 30 day begin with the date on which the penalty notice be give . ( 4 ) on an appeal under sub - paragraph ( 1 ) , the Tribunal may — ( a ) confirm or quash the decision to impose the penalty , ( b ) confirm or vary the amount of the penalty , ( c ) confirm or vary the period within which all or part of the penalty be to be pay . ( 5 ) if an appeal be bring under sub - paragraph ( 1 ) , the penalty which be the subject of the appeal be not payable until the appeal be determine or withdraw . appeal : further provision 15 ( 1 ) if the Tribunal confirm or vary an account information notice or a penalty notice on an appeal under this Part , the person to whom the notice be give must comply with the notice — ( a ) within such period as may be specify by the Tribunal , or ( b ) if the Tribunal do not specify a period , within such period as may be specify by the Department and notify to the person . ( 2 ) a decision by the Tribunal on an appeal under this Part be final ( despite the provision of section 11 and 13 of the Tribunals , Courts and Enforcement Act 2007 ) . part 5 - General provision and interpretation relevant benefit 16 in this Schedule " relevant benefit " mean any of the following — ( a ) a relevant social security benefit as define in section 115CA ( 7 ) ; ( b ) a child tax credit or work tax credit under the Tax Credits Act 2002 ; ( c ) a payment , as mention in subsection ( 1A ) ( d ) of section 1 of the Employment and Training Act ( Northern Ireland ) 1950 , under arrangement make under that section . account 17 in this schedule any reference to a person who hold an account include a reference to — ( a ) a person who hold an account jointly with one or more other person , and ( b ) a person who be a signatory , or one of the signatory , to an account , and " holder " be to be construe accordingly . general interpretation 18 in this schedule — " account " include a financial product ; " account information notice " have the meaning give in paragraph 2 ; " benefit " include any allowance , payment , credit or loan ; " cryptoasset " mean a cryptographically secure digital representation of value or contractual right that — ( a ) can be transfer , store or trade electronically , and ( b ) use technology support the recording or storage of datum ( which may include distribute ledger technology ) ; " the data protection legislation " have the same meaning as in the Data Protection Act 2018 ( see section 3 ( 9 ) of that Act ) ; " document " mean anything in which information ( in whatever form ) be record ; " financial product " include a cryptoasset ; " notice " mean notice in writing , and " notify " be to be read accordingly ; " penalty notice " be define in paragraph 9 ( 4 ) ; " personal datum " have the same meaning as in the Data Protection Act 2018 ( see section 3 ( 2 ) of that Act ) ; " process " have the same meaning as in that Act ( see section 3 ( 4 ) of that Act ) ; " the Tribunal " mean the first - tier Tribunal . relationship with other power 19 nothing in this schedule limit the power confer on the Department by section 103b ( power to require information ) . " part 3 - proceed of crime act 2002 13 ( 1 ) the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 330 ( failure to disclose : regulate sector ) , after subsection ( 7d ) insert — " ( 7E ) nor do a person commit an offence under this section if — ( a ) the information or other matter mention in subsection ( 3 ) consist of or include information that be obtain only in consequence of the carrying out of a process to identify matching account in response to an account information notice give to the person under paragraph 1 of schedule 3b to the Social Security Administration Act 1992 or paragraph 1 of schedule 3b to the Social Security Administration ( Northern Ireland ) Act 1992 , and ( b ) but for the information so obtain the person would not have reasonable ground for know or suspect that another person be engage in money laundering . " ( 3 ) in section 331 ( failure to disclose : nominate officer in the regulated sector ) , after subsection ( 6B ) insert — " ( 6c ) nor do a person commit an offence under this section if — ( a ) the information or other matter disclose to the person under section 330 consist of or include information that be obtain only in consequence of the carrying out of a process to identify matching account in response to an account information notice give to the person under paragraph 1 of schedule 3b to the Social Security Administration Act 1992 or paragraph 1 of schedule 3b to the Social Security Administration ( Northern Ireland ) Act 1992 , and ( b ) but for the information so obtain the person would not have reasonable ground for know or suspect that another person be engage in money laundering . " " — ( Sir John Whittingdale . ) this new schedule amend social security legislation to give the Secretary of State or , in Northern Ireland , the Department for Communities , a new power to give an information notice to certain body ( to be specify in regulation ) that administer account , require they to provide information about account in receipt of social security benefit ( etc ) which match criterion set out in the notice . bring up , and read the first and second time . question put , that the schedule be add to the Bill . Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Scott Benton Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Karen Bradley Suella Braverman Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Alberto Costa Geoffrey Cox Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Lucy Frazer George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Green Damian Green James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Adam Holloway Paul Holmes Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Alister Jack Ranil Jayawardena Mark Jenkinson Andrea Jenkyns Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger Kwasi Kwarteng John Lamont Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Mark Menzies Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Mary Robinson Lee Rowley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chris Skidmore Chloe Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Charles Walker Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Robert Largan Gagan Mohindra Ian Blackford Steven Bonnar Deidre Brock Alan Brown Richard Burgon Ian Byrne Amy Callaghan Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Daisy Cooper Ronnie Cowan Martyn Day Martin Docherty Allan Dorans Sarah Dyke Jonathan Edwards Marion Fellows Richard Foord Marcus Fysh Patricia Gibson Patrick Grady Drew Hendry Wera Hobhouse David Linden Caroline Lucas Kenny MacAskill Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Anne McLaughlin Carol Monaghan Layla Moran John Nicolson Brendan O ' Hara Kirsten Oswald Bell Ribeiro - Addy Liz Saville - Roberts Tommy Sheppard Alyn Smith Jamie Stone Zarah Sultana Alison Thewliss Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Claudia Webbe Philippa Whitford Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart Gavin Newlands Peter Grant the House divide : Ayes 274 , Noes 52 . question accordingly agree to . new schedule 1 read a second time , and add to the Bill . proceeding interrupt ( Programme Order , 17 April ) . the Deputy Speaker put forthwith the Questions necessary for the disposal of the business to be conclude at that time ( Standing Order no . 83e ) . new Schedule 2 - National Underground Asset Register : monetary penalty ' in the New Roads and Street Works Act 1991 , after Schedule 5 insert — " schedule 5a - monetary penalty in relation to requirement under Part 3a Power to impose monetary penalty 1 ( 1 ) the Secretary of State may give a notice ( a " penalty notice " ) impose a penalty on a person if satisfied on the balance of probability that the person — ( a ) have fail to comply with a requirement impose on the person to — ( i ) pay a fee in accordance with regulation under section 106c ( 1 ) , or ( ii ) provide information in accordance with regulation under section 106D ( 1 ) or ( 2 ) , or ( b ) have , in purport compliance with a requirement impose on the person under regulation under section 106D ( 1 ) or ( 2 ) , provide information that be false or misleading in a material respect . ( 2 ) the amount of a penalty impose by a penalty notice must be such amount as be specify in , or determine in accordance with , regulation make by the Secretary of State . ( 3 ) a penalty impose by a penalty notice must be pay to the Secretary of State within such period as may be specify in the notice . ( 4 ) the Secretary of State may not give more than one penalty notice to a person in respect of the same failure or conduct . ( 5 ) regulation under this paragraph be subject to the affirmative procedure . warning notice 2 ( 1 ) where the Secretary of State propose to give a penalty notice to a person the Secretary of State must give the person a notice ( a " warning notice " ) notify the person of the Secretary of State ' s proposal . ( 2 ) a warning notice must — ( a ) state the name and address of the person to whom the Secretary of State propose to give a penalty notice ; ( b ) give reason why the Secretary of State propose to give the person a penalty notice ; ( c ) state the amount of the propose penalty ; ( d ) specify the date before which the person may make write representation to the Secretary of State . ( 3 ) the date specify under sub - paragraph ( 2 ) ( d ) must be a date fall at least 28 day after the day on which the warning notice be give . penalty notice 3 ( 1 ) within the period of six month begin with the day on which a warning notice be give to a person the Secretary of State must give to the person — ( a ) a notice state that the Secretary of State have decide not to give a penalty notice to the person , or ( b ) a penalty notice . ( 2 ) but the Secretary of State may not give a penalty notice to a person before the end of the period specify in the warning notice for make write representation . ( 3 ) a penalty notice give to a person must — ( a ) state the name and address of the person ; ( b ) give detail of the warning notice give to the person ; ( c ) state whether or not the Secretary of State have receive write representation in accordance with that notice ; ( d ) give reason for the Secretary of State ' s decision to impose a penalty on the person ; ( e ) state the amount of the penalty ; ( f ) give detail of how the penalty may be pay ; ( g ) specify the date before which the penalty must be pay ; ( h ) give detail about the person ' s right of appeal ; ( i ) give detail about the consequence of non - payment . ( 4 ) the date specify under sub - paragraph ( 3 ) ( g ) must be a date fall at least 28 day after the day on which the penalty notice be give . ( 5 ) the Secretary of State may cancel a penalty notice by give a notice to that effect to the person to whom the penalty notice be give . ( 6 ) if a penalty notice be cancel the Secretary of State — ( a ) may not give a further penalty notice in relation to the failure or conduct to which the notice relate , and ( b ) must repay any amount that have be pay in accordance with the notice . enforcement 4 if a person do not pay the whole or any part of a penalty which the person be liable to pay under this Schedule the penalty or part of the penalty be recoverable — ( a ) if the county court so order , as if it be payable under an order of that court ; ( b ) if the High Court so order , as if it be payable under an order of that court . appeal 5 ( 1 ) a person who be give a penalty notice may appeal to the first - tier Tribunal ( " the Tribunal " ) against the decision to give the notice or any requirement of it . ( 2 ) an appeal may be on the ground that the decision or requirement — ( a ) be base on an error of fact , ( b ) be wrong in law , or ( c ) be unreasonable . ( 3 ) but an appeal against the amount of a penalty may not be make on the ground mention in sub - paragraph ( 2 ) ( c ) . ( 4 ) an appeal under this paragraph must be make before the end of the period of 28 day begin with the day on which the penalty notice be give . ( 5 ) on an appeal the Tribunal may — ( a ) confirm or quash the decision to give the penalty notice , or ( b ) confirm or vary any requirement of it . ( 6 ) in determine an appeal the Tribunal may — ( a ) review any determination of fact on which the decision or requirement appeal against be base , and ( b ) take into account evidence which be not available to the Secretary of State when give the notice . ( 7 ) where an appeal in respect of a penalty notice be make under this paragraph the notice be of no effect until the appeal be determine or withdraw . ( 8 ) where an appeal be or may be make to the Upper Tribunal in relation to a decision of the Tribunal under this paragraph , the Upper Tribunal may suspend the notice to which the appeal relate until the appeal be determine or withdraw . ( 9 ) if the Tribunal confirm or vary a decision or requirement appeal against under this paragraph , the person to whom the penalty notice be give must comply with the notice or the notice as varied ( as the case may be ) — ( a ) within such period as may be specify by the Tribunal , or ( b ) if the Tribunal do not specify a period , within such period as may be specify by the Secretary of State and notify to the person . " . ' — ( Sir John Whittingdale . ) this amendment insert a new schedule 5a into the New Roads and Street Works Act 1991 which make provision about the imposition of monetary penalty in relation to requirement contain in new Part 3A of that Act ( see Amendment NC39 ) . bring up , and add to the Bill . schedule 1 - lawfulness of processing : recognise legitimate interest Amendments make : 266 , page 141 , line 23 , leave out from " processing " to end and insert " fall within paragraph 10 " . this amendment and Amendment 267 be consequential on the insertion of a new definition of " democratic engagement " by Amendment 269 . amendment 267 , page 141 , leave out line 26 and 27 and insert — " 10 . processing fall within this paragraph if — " . see the explanatory statement for Amendment 266 . amendment 268 , page 141 , line 35 , leave out from begin to end of line 5 on page 142 and insert — " ( i ) be carry out by a register political party , and ( ii ) be necessary for the purpose of the party ' s election activity or democratic engagement activity , " . this amendment clarify the type of processing by a register political party that fall within paragraph 10 of new Annex 1 to the UK GDPR ( lawfulness of processing : recognise legitimate interest ) . see also the definition insert by Amendments 269 , 273 and 274 . amendment 269 , page 142 , line 19 , at end insert — " 10a . for the purpose of paragraph 10 ( a ) and ( b ) — ( a ) " democratic engagement activity " mean activity whose purpose be to support or promote democratic engagement ; ( b ) " democratic engagement " mean engagement by the public , a section of the public or a particular person with , or with an aspect of , an electoral system or other democratic process in the United Kingdom , either generally or in connection with a particular matter , whether by participate in the system or process or engage with it in another way ; ( c ) example of democratic engagement activity include activity whose purpose be — ( i ) to promote the registration of individual as elector ; ( ii ) to increase the number of elector participate in election for elect representative , referendum or process for recall petition in which they be entitle to participate ; ( iii ) to support an elect representative or register political party in discharge function , or carry on other activity , describe in paragraph 10 ( a ) or ( b ) ; ( iv ) to support a person to become a candidate for election as an elect representative ; ( v ) to support a campaign or campaigning refer to in paragraph 10 ( c ) , ( d ) or ( e ) ; ( vi ) to raise fund to support activity whose purpose be describe in point ( i ) to ( v ) ; ( d ) example of activity that may be democratic engagement activity include — ( i ) gather opinion , whether by carry out a survey or by other mean ; ( ii ) communicate with elector . " this amendment clarify the meaning of " democratic engagement activity " in new Annex 1 to the UK GDPR ( which describe circumstance in which processing of personal datum meet the requirement for lawfulness under Article 6 of the UK GDPR ) . amendment 270 , page 142 , leave out line 20 and insert — " 11 . in paragraph 9 to 14 — " . this amendment be consequential on Amendments 269 , 273 and 277 . amendment 271 , page 142 , leave out line 26 and 27 . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 269 . amendment 272 , page 142 , line 29 , after " 13 " insert " , 13a " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 277 . amendment 273 , page 142 , line 29 , at end insert — " " election activity " , in relation to a register political party , mean — ( a ) campaigning in connection with an election for an elect representative , and ( b ) activity whose purpose be to enhance the standing of the party , or of a candidate stand for election in its name , with elector ; " elector " mean a person who be entitle to vote in an election for an elect representative or in a referendum ; " . this amendment insert definition of term use in provision insert by Amendments 268 and 269 . amendment 274 , page 142 , line 36 , at end insert — " " register political party " mean a person or organisation include in a register maintain under section 23 of the Political Parties , Elections and Referendums Act 2000 ; " successful " , in relation to a recall petition , have the same meaning as in the Recall of MPs Act 2015 ( see section 14 of that Act ) . " this amendment insert definition of term use in provision insert by Amendments 268 , 269 and 277 . amendment 275 , page 142 , line 37 , after " in " insert " the definition of " candidate " and " elect representative " in " . this minor amendment insert word specify that the table in paragraph 12 of new Annex 1 to the UK GDPR be relevant for the purpose of certain definition in paragraph 11 of that Annex . Amendment 276 , page 143 , line 36 , at end insert — " ( ga ) a mayor for the area of a combine county authority establish under section 9 of the Levelling - up and Regeneration Act 2023 section 118a of the Representation of the People Act 1983 , as apply by the Combined Authorities ( Mayoral Elections ) Order 2017 ( S . I . 2017 / 67 ) " . this amendment add mayor for the area of a combine county authority establish under section 9 of the Levelling - up and Regeneration Act 2023 to the list of elect representative in new Annex 1 to the UK GDPR ( lawfulness of processing : recognise legitimate interest ) . amendment 277 , page 144 , line 30 , at end insert — " 13a . for the purpose of the definition of " elect representative " in paragraph 11 , where a member of the House of Commons ' s seat become vacant as a result of a successful recall petition , that person be to be treat as if they be a member of the House of Commons until the end of the period of 30 day begin with the day after — ( a ) the day on which the result by - election be hold , or ( b ) if early , the day on which the next general election in relation to Parliament be hold . " — ( Sir John Whittingdale . ) this amendment extend the period for which a member of the House of Commons who be the subject of a successful recall petition be treat as an " elect representative " for the purpose of paragraph of new Annex 1 to the UK GDPR ( lawfulness of processing : recognise legitimate interest ) relate to democratic engagement . schedule 2 - purpose limitation : process to be treat as compatible with original purpose Amendments make : 208 , page 145 , line 20 , at end insert — " disclosure for the purpose of archive in the public interest 1A . this condition be meet where — ( a ) the processing — ( i ) be necessary for the purpose of make a disclosure of personal datum to another person ( " r " ) in response to a request from r , and ( ii ) be carry out in accordance with article 84b , ( b ) the controller in relation to the processing collect the personal datum base on Article 6 ( 1 ) ( a ) ( datum subject ' s consent ) , ( c ) the request from R state that r intend to process the personal datum only for the purpose of archive in the public interest , and ( d ) the controller reasonably believe that r will carry out that processing in accordance with generally recognise standard relevant to r ' s archive in the public interest . " this amendment enable certain further processing of personal datum , for the purpose of archive in the public interest , where the original processing be base on consent of the data subject . amendment 209 , page 146 , line 29 , leave out " carry out " and insert " necessary " . — ( Sir John Whittingdale . ) this amendment amend a condition which , if meet , result in processing of personal datum for a new purpose be treat as compatible with the original purpose for which it be collect . it provide that , in order for process to meet the condition , it must be necessary for the purpose describe ( assessment or collection of tax ) . schedule 4 - obligation of controller and processor : consequential amendment Amendments make : 210 , page 149 , line 23 , leave out paragraph 8 and insert — " 8 in article 49 ( derogation for specific authority ) , for paragraph 6 substitute — " 6 . the controller or processor must — ( a ) maintain appropriate record of the assessment and safeguard refer to in the second subparagraph of paragraph 1 , and ( b ) make the record available to the Commissioner on request . " " this amendment maintain the duty to keep record of assessment make , and safeguard provide , in accordance with Article 49 of the UK GDPR , but remove the requirement to keep they as part of the general record of processing ( see Article 30 , which be to be replace by new Article 30a insert by clause 16 ) . amendment 211 , page 151 , line 11 , leave out paragraph 21 and insert — " 21 for paragraph 41 of Schedule 1 ( additional safeguard for processing of special category of personal datum etc : record of processing ) substitute — " 41 " ( 1 ) a controller must maintain appropriate record of processing of personal datum carry out in reliance on a condition describe in paragraph 38 . ( 2 ) the record must include the follow information — ( a ) which condition be rely on , ( b ) how the processing satisfie Article 6 of the UK GDPR ( lawfulness of processing ) , and ( c ) whether the personal datum be retain and erase in accordance with the policy describe in paragraph 39 ( b ) and , if it be not , the reason for not follow those policy . ( 3 ) the controller must make the record available to the Commissioner on request . " " — ( Sir John Whittingdale . ) this amendment maintain the duty to keep record of processing in reliance on certain condition in Schedule 1 to the Data Protection Act 2018 , but remove the requirement to keep they as part of the general record of processing ( see Article 30 , which be to be replace by new Article 30a insert by clause 16 ) . schedule 10 - privacy and electronic communication : Commissioner ' s enforcement power Amendment make : 212 , page 181 , line 12 , leave out " 141 " and insert " 141A " . — ( Sir John Whittingdale . ) this amendment be consequential on Amendment NC8 . Title Amendments make : 213 , line 10 , after " purpose ; " insert " to make provision for a power to obtain information for social security purpose ; " . this amendment be consequential on new clause NC34 and new Schedule ns1 . Amendment 214 , line 10 , after " purpose ; " insert " to make provision about the retention of information by provider of internet service in connection with investigation into child death ; " . this amendment be consequential on new clause NC35 . Amendment 215 , line 11 , after " death ; " insert " to make provision about the recording and sharing , and keeping of a register , of information relate to apparatus in street ; " . this amendment be consequential on Amendments NC39 , NC40 and NS2 . amendment 216 , line 13 , after " about " insert " retention and " . — ( Sir John Whittingdale . ) this amendment be consequential on new clause NC36 , NC37 and NC38 . third read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read the third time . this Bill will deliver tangible benefit to british consumer and business alike , which would not have be possible if Britain have still be a member of the European Union . it deliver a more flexible and less burdensome data protection regime that maintain high standard of privacy protection while promote growth and boost innovation . it do so with the support of the Information Commissioner , and without jeopardise the UK ' s European Union datum adequacy . I would like to thank all member who contribute during the passage of the Bill , and all those who have help get it right . I now commend it to the House on its onward passage to the other place . I call the shadow Minister . I , too , would like to thank the Clerks for their help . they be always enormously helpful , especially to Opposition Members , and sometimes to Government Members as well . I would like to commend my close friend , my hon . friend the Member for Barnsley East ( Stephanie Peacock ) , who take the Bill through Committee for our side . I think the Minister suggest that it be rather more fun have she up against he than I , which be very cruel and unkind of he . we support the Bill , although I suspect that regulatory divergence be a bit of a chimera , and that regulatory convergence in this field will give UK business great stability and certainty , but that be for another day . I also worry about the extensive power that minister be give themselves , and the suggestion that they will switch off the rule on direct marketing in the run - up to a general election . then there be new schedule 1 . I repeat the offer I have make several time , which be that we stand ready to knock that into far well shape , whether in meeting we have privately or through our colleague in the House of Lords . I feel ashamed to say it , but I hope the Lords be able to do the line - by - line scrutiny that we have be prevent from do today . I call the SNP spokesperson . the Minister say that this Bill would not have be possible without Brexit . I think the expression he be look for be that this Bill would not have be necessary if it have not be for Brexit . this be yet another example of the Government have to play catch - up and have to get themselves out of the hole they dig themselves into through an ill - thought - out Brexit and drive for the hard possible exit from the European Union . that say , I do want to echo the thank give and the tribute pay to the Bill team , and to the Clerks , who have have to work particularly hard in recent day give the significant number of Government amendment table at the last minute . I also thank my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow North West ( Carol Monaghan ) for her work on Second Reading and in Committee , as well as our research team , especially Josh Simmons - Upton and the many stakeholder who have provide briefing and research , particularly the team at the Public Law Project , who have do excellent work in draw out some of the most concern aspect of the Bill . it always concern I when the briefing come in , entitle " PLP briefing " — I do a doubletake as I think I be on somebody else ' s mailing list . although some of what be in the Bill be necessary , particularly follow the UK ' s withdrawal from the European Union , much of it represent a further power grab by the executive and risk do exactly the opposite of what the Government say they want it to achieve : make life easy for business , and improve public confidence in datum handling and the use of artificial intelligence . the SNP will oppose the Bill , and the Government should take the opportunity to start from scratch with a process that listen to consultation response and involve genuine and detailed parliamentary scrutiny . if the Bill proceed to the Lords , it will once again fall to the unelected House to more fully interrogate it . that will no doubt lead to several round of ping - pong in due course , almost certainly as a result of amendment both from the Government and from the Opposition or Cross - Benchers in the Upper House . that be sub - optimal , as be the case with so much of what seem to happen down here these day . the soon Scotland have power over this area , and indeed all aspect of legislation , as an independent country , the well . question put , that the Bill be now read the third time . Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Scott Benton Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Karen Bradley Suella Braverman Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Alberto Costa Geoffrey Cox Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Lucy Frazer George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Green Damian Green James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Adam Holloway Paul Holmes Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Alister Jack Ranil Jayawardena Mark Jenkinson Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger Kwasi Kwarteng John Lamont Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Esther McVey Mark Menzies Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft Sheryll Murray Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Mark Pawsey John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Mary Robinson Lee Rowley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Mel Stride Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Charles Walker Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale James Wild Gavin Williamson Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Robert Largan Gagan Mohindra Steven Bonnar Deidre Brock Alan Brown Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Ronnie Cowan Martyn Day Martin Docherty Jonathan Edwards Marcus Fysh Patricia Gibson Patrick Grady Peter Grant Drew Hendry David Linden Caroline Lucas Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald Anne McLaughlin Brendan O ' Hara Kirsten Oswald Liz Saville - Roberts Tommy Sheppard Alyn Smith Alison Thewliss Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Claudia Webbe Hywel Williams Pete Wishart Hannah Bardell Gavin Newlands the House divide : Ayes 269 , Noes 31 . question accordingly agree to . Bill read the third time and pass . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Health Services that the draft Health Care Services ( Provider Selection Regime ) Regulations 2023 which be lay before this House on 19 October , in the last session of Parliament , be approve . — ( Scott Mann . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Financial Services that the draft Financial Services and Markets Act 2023 ( resolution of Central Counterparties : Partial Property Transfers and safeguarding of Protected Arrangements ) Regulations 2023 , which be lay before this House on 16 October , in the last session of Parliament , be approve . — ( Scott Mann . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Financial Services that the draft Resolution of Central Counterparties ( Modified Application of Corporate Law and Consequential Amendments ) Regulations 2023 , which be lay before this House on 16 October , in the last session of Parliament , be approve . — ( Scott Mann . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Financial Services and Markets that the draft Payment and Electronic Money Institution Insolvency ( Amendment ) Regulations 2023 , which be lay before this House on 25 October , in the last session of Parliament , be approve . — ( Scott Mann . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Retained EU Law Reform that the draft Plant Protection Products ( Miscellaneous Amendments ) Regulations 2023 , which be lay before this House on 23 October , in the last session of Parliament , be approve . — ( Scott Mann . ) question agree to . business of the House ( private Members ' Bills ) order , that private Members ' bill shall have precedence over Government business on 19 January , 26 January , 2 February , 23 February , 1 March , 15 March , 22 March , 19 April , 26 April , 17 May , 7 June , 14 June and 21 June 2024 . — ( Penny Mordaunt . ) Petition - Ceasefire in Palestine 6 . 17 pm in recent day , we have have a pause in the violence in Palestine . that pause have allow some aid to get through , and some Israelis and some Palestinians to be release . instead of people be bomb or shoot , maim or kill , they have be reunite with their family . nobody could fail to be move by the scene of family cry with relief on our television screen , just as nobody could fail to be horrify by the killing of so many thousand of innocent people . my constituent want to see more of the former and no more of the latter . they want to see aid reach everyone who need it , and they want to see mother and father on all side get their child back . the petition state : the petition of resident of the United Kingdom , declare that the only and quick route to last peace in Palestine be for all side to support and adhere to full ceasefire ; condemn violence against people for simply be israeli , equally condemn violence against people simply for be palestinian ; mourn the grow death toll of woman , man and child and grieve for the thousand more traumatise by what they have witness and experience . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to add its voice to international call for an immediate and permanent ceasefire so that aid can continue to reach Palestinians ; bomb out home , university and hospital in Palestine can be rebuild and the process to find last peace with a two state solution can begin . and the petitioner remain , etc . [ P002882 ] Refugee Family Reunion Routes : Sudan Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Scott Mann . ) I be grateful to have the opportunity to draw the House ' s attention to the catastrophic situation in Sudan and to highlight the circumstance of the people in danger there , some of whom have family member recognise as refugee here in the United Kingdom . I hope to take this time to illustrate how the UK ' s family reunion rule make it incredibly difficult for those individual — most of they child — to join their family member here . finally , I want to ask the Government to think again about how they apply the family reunion rule , give the horrendous circumstance that those individual face , and to urge the Minister and his colleague to think about a new approach to facilitate and support reunion with family member here rather than hinder it , as seem to be the case in too many instance . I turn , first , to the circumstance in Sudan . what be unfold there have be describe by the United Nations as one of the " bad humanitarian nightmare in recent history . " since fighting break out between the sudanese armed force and the paramilitary Rapid Support Forces , more than 9 , 000 have be kill . horrific report of rape and sexual violence continue to emerge , and clash be increasingly along ethnic line , particularly in Darfur . every hour child be kill , injure or abduct . many hospital have have to suspend operation ; other have be bomb or turn into military basis . last month , the Minister for Africa say that the violence there bear " all the hallmark of ethnic cleansing " . the fighting that commence in mid - April have lead to more than 1 million people flee Sudan altogether to neighbour Chad , Egypt , Ethiopia , South Sudan and the Central African Republic . meanwhile , more than 5 million have be force from their home , internally displace within Sudan . among those displace be almost 1 . 5 million refugee and asylum seeker from other country , who have already have to flee persecution in their home territory to Sudan , particularly eritrean national . More than 6 million people be on the edge of famine , and more than 20 million face acute food insecurity . More than 4 million woman and girl face the risk of gender - base violence , with limited or no access to protection service and support . against that background , I have have the pleasure of work with the Refugee and Migrant Forum of Essex and London — RAMFEL — which have a number of refugee client here in the UK with family member stick in Sudan who want to get here . altogether , ramfel represent 14 individual — a tiny sample of that country — who have be struggle to leave Sudan to join their family here . seven month on from the start of the most recent conflict , only two have make it here so far . of those two , one — a child — be successful only after an appeal . of the 12 who have not yet make it here , all be child under 18 . ten be eritrean , and two be sudanese . of those 12 , eight be still in Sudan itself — child in a war zone , face extreme danger . the other four have make it to neighbouring country but , as we will see , they be not out of danger yet . to all reasonable observer , give the circumstance of those child , reunion with their family member in the United Kingdom must be appropriate and the right thing to do . be it not precisely for such situation that we have family reunion policy at all ? family reunion would provide a safe legal route to the UK , allow both the individual here and those come here to get on with rebuild their life . it would remove any temptation to seek assistance from people smuggler — break the business model , to borrow that expression . most fundamentally , those child would be safe . I commend the hon . member for Cumbernauld , Kilsyth and Kirkintilloch East ( Stuart C . McDonald ) on secure this debate — that constituency be quite a mouthful , and I hope I pronounce it right . he be at the fore in address this issue . in Sudan , 4 . 3 million people have be displace , and 1 . 1 million be live in five neighbouring country . the British Red Cross have be instrumental in reunite more than 10 , 000 displace people and their family . it can offer support with visa application if the individual be base in London , Liverpool , Preston or Plymouth , accord to its website . do he agree that it be important to have visa assistance hub throughout the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , with at least one for the devolved institution in Northern Ireland . the hon . Gentleman make perfect sense . organisation such as the Red Cross and RAMFEL , which I have be work with on this topic , be fantastic . the more support we can give they and people across the United Kingdom , the well . these be precisely the circumstance in which we should have refugee family reunion rule . I regret to report that , unfortunately , the rule and process be make it hard for these people than it should be . in particular , while UK rule be pretty generous for spouse , partner and child — I acknowledge that — they be more restrictive for other category of relative , include sibling . Most of the child I be talk about today have lose their parent , and it be an old sibling here in the UK that they be seek to join . furthermore , the rule require enrolment of biometric information before an application will even be look at . that mean the child can not even get over the starting line , because the visa application centre in Sudan , understandably , have to close after the outbreak of the conflict . if there be no way to safely provide biometric information , surely we should stop ask for it in advance ? I will set out precisely how the application of the family reunion rule and procedure have impact on the child . I be use pseudonym to protect the identity of individual . sixteen - year - old Adila flee to Sudan to escape persecution in Eritrea , include force conscription into the army . as a lone 16 - year - old girl in a war zone , she clearly face significant risk . she have already be displace from Khartoum to a city in eastern Sudan and be struggle severely with her mental health . she seek family reunion with her old brother , who be a recognise refugee here in the UK . however , hers be one of a number of case that can not get off the ground because the Home Office insist she attend a visa application centre to enrol biometric information . the centre in Sudan be close , so that would mean have to make an irregular and dangerous journey to a neighbouring country to do it there . I acknowledge that the Home Office do consider application to defer enrolment of biometric information until the person either arrive at or be at least en route to the UK , so that the application can proceed . but even a cursory look at the relevant policy document show that it be only in very few circumstance indeed where the Home Office allow that to happen . when 16 - year - old Adila ask to defer enrolment , she be refuse that application . the Home Office say she have not prove her identity with reasonable certainty and assert that have cross one border irregularly — flee Eritrea to get to Sudan — she could obviously manage to do so again . I do not believe that that be a fair approach to take to a 16 - year - old girl in Sudan . Allowance have to be make for the fact that eritrean refugee in Sudan will almost certainly not be able to produce passport . a degree of latitude be therefore require . the idea that because someone flee over a border in fear of persecution , they can just be call on to make another dangerous and irregular journey be in itself a dangerous idea . it ride a coach and horse through the Home Office ' s own policy . it would not be worth the paper it be write on . if an unaccompanied 16 - year - old girl in a war zone can not avail herself of the deferral policy , who on earth can ? seven of the other individual be in a similar situation . they can not apply because they be in Sudan and there be no place to go to enrol their biometric information . even among those who have make it out of Sudan , similar issue can arise . for example , Fatima , a 15 - year - old eritrean girl , have originally make a family application to join her brother in the UK just prior to the outbreak of the war in Sudan . she have get as far as book an appointment at the visa application centre in Khartoum . that , of course , have to be cancel when the centre close after the outbreak of fighting . Fatima end up trafficked from Khartoum to South Sudan some week after the outbreak of war , and be release only on the payment of a ransom . she clearly remain at severe risk of kidnapping , sexual exploitation and all other manner of harm . there be no visa application centre in South Sudan , but again the Home Office refuse to defer biometric enrolment . ramfel ask the Home Office if , as an alternative , mobile biometric enrolment could take place — someone would travel to South Sudan from a regional VAC to take the biometric there . if require , RAMFEL would offer to pay , but even that reasonable offer be refuse . I ask the question again : if those circumstance do not merit the deferral of biometric enrolment or other compromise action , what on earth do ? be that not the problem with the hostile environment ? there be no circumstance ; they do not want people to come . it do not matter how dreadful the circumstance be that people be live in . it do not matter that this be the country where they have family member who can make they feel at home and welcome , and help they to start to overcome the trauma they have go through . the Home Office do not want to know . computer say no . the door be close . " computer say no " be pretty close to the bone . the Home Office have a policy on biometric enrolment , and it stick rigidly to it even when dramatic circumstance such as those persist in Sudan mean that a different approach should be take . the Home Office can take a different approach , and it have do so in certain circumstance . the Minister would not like it if I make a comparison with Ukraine , and I do not want to do so , but I simply point out that , in those incredible circumstance , the Home Office be able to take a different approach . I be not ask for anything remotely approach what be do in that situation ; I be just ask the Home Office to be a little more deft , a wee bit more responsive , and to think about the consideration that should apply for people apply from Sudan . I be sure my hon . friend be aware that there be a big sudanese community in Glasgow , and I remember a meeting I have with a number of sudanese people who make that very point about Ukraine . they say , " we want this country to look after Ukrainians . of course , it have to look after they ; they be go through a terrible war and they be be attack — but so be our family . what be the difference ? " do my hon . friend understand how important this debate will be to sudanese people live in this country ? at last , somebody be talk about their pain and care enough to secure a debate in the House of Commons . I know they really appreciate everything he be try to do . I be grateful to my hon . friend for her remark , but the tribute should be pay to RAMFEL and the other organisation out there that do amazing work on behalf of the sudanese community . there be people who would make a legitimate argument that there should be some sort of equivalence in the treatment of Ukraine and Sudan , but that be not the case I be make tonight . I be simply say that the Home Office show in the case of Ukraine that it be willing to apply different rule , or to apply the same rule differently . it be able to be nimble and to respond accordingly to a grave situation . this , too , be a grave situation and there should be some sort of flexibility in the response . on this point , the solution be pretty obvious : we need a more generous set of exception to the rule that require biometric information be provide in advance . I be not the only one say that . the House of Lords Justice and Home Affairs Committee recently report on family migration : " the Home Office should exercise its discretion to lift or delay the requirement to submit biometric when this would involve travel in dangerous condition or outside the applicant ' s country of residence . the Home Office should allow biometric to be complete on arrival in the UK for a wide range of nationality in crisis situation . " that seem to be the compassionate and common - sense thing to do . if the Minister be not willing to go as far as the Committee suggest , surely he must see that the application of the rule in the type of circumstance I have describe be gravely unsettling and must be revisit in some form . I turn next to rule in relation to sibling . even those who ultimately be able to jump through the first administrative hoop be far from guarantee success in their family reunion application . exist rule focus on family reunion for spouse and for child under 18 . I have speak in previous debate about various problem with what I regard as the overly restrictive category of relationship that can benefit from family reunion without further test apply , but today I will focus on sibling . give the situation prevail in Sudan and neighbouring country , many child find themselves either orphan or without any contact with their parent . for these kid , their sibling here in the UK be essentially their only remain family . that say , if a 15 - year - old seek to join their 20 - year - old brother here , they must first pay a fee and a health surcharge , unless they be grant a waiver , which add an additional hurdle . then , as well as prove their relationship , they must show that there be exceptional circumstance and that the refusal of their application would result in unjustifiably harsh consequence for the applicant . meet those test can be surprisingly difficult . it often seem that the general country situation , however hellish , will never be enough to make a person ' s circumstance — even a child ' s circumstance — exceptional enough to overcome that hurdle . a person seem to need to be able to show that their circumstance be exceptional , even compare with other individual in that country — in that warzone . that be a hugely difficult prospect , likely require legal advice and lawyer , and it be difficult to obtain the necessary evidence . surely the Home Office can be more responsive to the situation on the ground in Sudan . at the very least , could we not have clear guidance that any child live unaccompanie in Sudan should be treat as meet the necessary test of exceptionality and harsh consequence , and therefore should , in principle , be allow to be reunite with a UK - base sibling ? surely that be the bare minimum we can do . as I say , even if those test be overcome , the fact that sibling be not consider " core " family member for the purpose of the rule have other consequence . I turn to another case study . two unaccompanied eritrean child see a household member kill . one of the kid be beat up during the same raid . they submit application for family reunion in November 2022 , some month before the most recent upsurge in fighting . the application be originally refuse , but an appeal be lodge and the Home Office eventually concede it . that be welcome , but the Home Office be now insist on payment of the immigration health surcharge , which , of course , the family simply can not afford . surely in such circumstance any fee or health surcharge should be waive . finally , I turn to processing time . if one of these kid be somehow in a position to jump through all the hoop I have describe , surely the least we will offer be a speedy priority service . the service standard for family reunion application be 12 week , but I be tell that many application take six month to a year . if an appeal be require in order to overturn a refusal — we have just hear about an example of that — the wait can be more than double . family separation will always be painful , but for unaccompanied child in Sudan , and even in some of the neighbouring country , it be also seriously dangerous . surely some sort of priority processing have to be give to case where the applicant be directly in danger . another case study involve Wissam , who be 17 , and Abdul , who be 14 . they apply to join their old brother just before war break out and have an appointment to enrol their biometric in Khartoum . that could not happen , as the centre close down . struggle to access food and water , and at risk of kidnapping , trafficking or exploitation , the brother be victim of robbery . ultimately , they decide to flee again and make a dangerous , irregular journey to Uganda . they now live unaccompanie in cramp condition and , because of their age and nationality , face regular discrimination in access sanitation , include clean water . the 14 - year - old be struggle with mental health issue and suffering night terror because of his experience in Sudan and on the journey to Uganda . surely we can not leave those two brother , who be now in a position to submit their application , to wait for month and perhaps year . surely application have to be give priority in those circumstance . the Minister will no doubt tell we about the significant number of people who do arrive here in the UK under our family reunion arrangement . I acknowledge that fact and I welcome it . however , it would be totally wrong to say that the system be function well ; various report by the independent chief inspector of border and immigration testify to that . lot of improvement still have to be make . I be not ask for a revolution today , although perhaps I will pursue that far in the month to come . today , I simply ask that the Home Office accept that it have to be nimble , to respond and to tweak its rule and process where circumstance require . the utterly dire circumstance in Sudan surely justify such a response . in summary , I be ask the Home Office three thing . first , I ask it to rethink the requirement for people trap in Sudan — particularly child — to provide biometric in advance at a visa application centre . please look at alternative , whether wait until people ' s arrival in the UK before require biometric , or some other compromise that do not hold up the consideration of application . secondly , I ask the Home Office , either by tweak the rule or , perhaps more realistically , by issue guidance for case such as those I have describe , to make it clear that , as a general rule , child from Sudan seek to join sibling or other family member in the UK should be treat as meet the " exceptional " test for the family reunion rule . I would like to think that that would be apply to sibling more generally , but for today ' s purpose I make a special case for those seek to leave Sudan . I also ask the Home Office not to make any such application subject to fee and health surcharge . thirdly , I ask the Home Office to prioritise these application , in recognition of the danger that the people make they face . do not leave they wait for month . finally , if possible , seek to work with international organisation and non - governmental organisation to help support safe passage from Sudan , as and when application be allow . I close with a warning , because the danger be that if we do not facilitate their application , these youngster will end up seek to make their own way to the UK , irregularly and dangerously . that bring I to the final case I want to mention , which be that of 16 - year - old Daoud , who flee Eritrea to Sudan . in the light of the situation there , he flee again , to South Sudan . with no progress on secure refugee family reunion from there , he take matter into his own hand and start make his way towards the Mediterranean . he be currently arbitrarily detain in Libya . some might say he make his own choice , but I think we leave he with no choice at all . I do not want to have to come back here in a few month with another Adjournment debate on this subject and to have to provide similar — or even bad — update on the other child I have mention in this debate . I know the Minister can not make policy on the hoof , but I urge he to speak with official , to rethink the Home Office strategy in relation to those who be suffer in Sudan , and to ensure that we be do all we can to facilitate and support family reunion . I thank the hon . member for Cumbernauld , Kilsyth and Kirkintilloch East ( Stuart C . mcdonald ) for secure this Adjournment debate . we share his deep concern about the situation in Sudan and all those affect by it , include those seek refugee status in the United Kingdom or other safe country . the Government remain committed to uphold the principle of family reunion by provide a safe and legal route to bring family together through the refugee family reunion policy . the family reunion route allow individual with protection status in the UK to sponsor their partner or child to stay with or join they here , provide they form part of a family unit before the sponsor flee their country of origin to seek protection . while we sympathise greatly with the situation in which many individual in Sudan find themselves , we do not intend to prioritise refugee family reunion application from those impact by the sudanese conflict , as there be many other individual in the queue who will be face broadly comparable situation elsewhere in the world . we want to treat all individual face such situation in the same manner and ensure that , where appropriate , they can be support to a life in the UK in accordance with our rule . I would not necessarily say that people seek to come here from Sudan because they be in danger there should be prioritise ahead of other who face similar risk elsewhere — a point that the Minister fairly make — but do the Home Office make any consideration or assessment of risk at all ? there be people who apply for refugee family reunion , quite rightly and fairly , who do not face any imminent risk because they be in a relatively safe third country . surely the fact that people be face real danger be an add reason to give priority to their family reunion application . that should be something that the Department consider . the hon . Gentleman make a valid point , which I be happy to take up with my official . our policy be one of non - discrimination , so individual be treat equally , regardless of their country of origin . obviously , there be a number of place in the world with great danger and we do not choose to rank they in order of priority . however , I can see some merit in what he be say , so I be happy to give that consideration . it be important to note that the UK have a very strong record of support refugee . since 2015 , we have resettle over half a million people seek safety , which be among the most generous offering in our country ' s history . the UK rank highly among other develop country in that regard . we continue to welcome refugee through our exist global resettlement scheme , include the UK resettlement scheme itself , community sponsorship and the mandate resettlement scheme . since 2015 , we have issue 49 , 000 family reunion visa to family member of those with protection status , with over half of those visa for child . that figure demonstrate our commitment to refugee family reunion . we have welcome sudanese national through both our UK resettlement scheme and the community sponsorship scheme in 2022 and 2023 . between 2015 and 2023 , 6 , 500 sudanese national have be grant visa under refugee family reunion . in the year to September 2023 , 618 sudanese national be grant visa under refugee family reunion . the UK be make a significant commitment , although of course the need be very great , as the hon . Gentleman say , due to the situation in Sudan . we will continue to consider our approach to refugee family reunion in the round rather than on a crisis - by - crisis basis . the UK have no plan at the moment to introduce a designate resettlement scheme for sudanese refugee . as a general rule , it be important that the UK do not treat migration as the first lever that we pull to try to help people in grave situation in the world . generally speak , the great impact that the UK can make , whether that be in Sudan or in other crisis situation , be by use our full diplomatic muscle and our development aid to support people in the region , which be , in fact , the place where the majority of refugee find themselves . indeed , that happen with respect to the sudanese situation , where hundred of thousand of individual be be support by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and other organisation in the immediate environ of Sudan . the UK be proud to be support those effort to help those individual . I wish to turn more specifically to some of the very valid question that the hon . Gentleman raise . first , he raise the question of those flee conflict zone who find it difficult to provide document for family reunion purpose . we recognise that this be a challenge for those flee their home and their home country . although the onus be on the applicant to show that the relationship be genuine , there be no specific requirement to provide certain type of evidence . we recognise that documentary evidence may not always be available , particularly in country where there be no function administrative authority to issue a passport , a marriage certificate , or a birth certificate . decision maker should take into consideration evidence from a range of source , include information provide by their UK family sponsor . each decision be consider on the balance of probability to identify whether there be sufficient evidence to prove that the individual be relate as claim . it be important to prevent abuse of the refugee family reunion policy and to safeguard applicant by carefully review their application where fraudulent document be submit , or where there be evidence that the sponsor obtain leave by deception . with more specific regard to the situation in Sudan , the hon . Gentleman be right to say that the visa application centre in Khartoum be close until further notice . as a result , any passport remain there be have to be hold in secure storage . we be committed to do everything we can to support people who find themselves affect by that closure and to reopen the centre as soon as it be safe to do so for our staff and their contractor . there be other visa application centre in the wide vicinity of Sudan . I appreciate that the distance be long , and that the journey can be arduous and , at time , unsafe . we do have visa centre in Cairo and Jeddah , and many people have make use of those in the time since the crisis begin . even among the case that I speak about , one or two individual have make it into a neighbouring country — unfortunately one have make it to South Sudan where there be also not a visa application centre — but surely , particularly in the case of child , it be too much to ask they to make a dangerous journey such as that to supply biometric information . there should be some sort of presumption against the need to provide biometric information , or at least a willingness to consider defer it before the Home Office even look at the application . in most case , unfortunately , individual will have to make a journey to leave Sudan , as it be very unlikely that they will fly directly from Sudan . Most of the case that I have be make aware of as Immigration Minister be of individual who have make the journey to Cairo or to Jeddah or other neighbouring country . rise — before I give way to the hon . Gentleman , I will reply directly on the biometric point , which be an important question . fundamentally , we believe that biometric be extremely important , because we want to protect the UK ' s national security and the safety of our citizen here . although , of course , we all want to see the good in individual come here , particularly in young people and child , there be individual whom we would not want to enter the United Kingdom . as such , biometric , in the form of facial image and fingerprint , underpin our immigration system . however , we make exception for individual who find themselves in the most difficult situation . we publish guidance in May 2023 , which set out our approach to handle applicant who claim that it be unsafe to travel from Sudan to a visa application centre in another country to enrol their biometric — he refer to that situation in his speech . the guidance set out the circumstance under which UK Visas and Immigration will either predetermine an application or defer the requirement to enrol biometric information until the applicant arrive in the UK , when the applicant have demonstrate their circumstance to be exceptional . in most case , we require biometric to be take as part of the application so that we can conduct the check on a person ' s identity and suitability to come to the UK . it be ultimately the responsibility of the applicant to satisfy the decision maker about their identity . I hope that the hon . Gentleman can take some comfort from the fact that the guidance give that flexibility . I hear that he feel that it be be apply too onerously and in a way that be insufficiently sensitive to the situation in Sudan . I be happy to take that away , speak to my official and , if he have further example , to put those in front of they so that we can make sure that the guidance be be apply fairly . I be grateful that the Minister be open to have a discussion about this issue . he be right that , ultimately , all these kid will probably have to leave for a neighbouring country for onward travel . however , it be one thing to ask they to leave in the certainty that they will be allow into the United Kingdom ; it be another to ask they to leave and provide biometric information on the off - chance that they might be allow in at some future point . one compromise might be to consider the family reunion application without the biometric information ; if it be grant , then tell they to come to a neighbouring country and provide the biometric information there . will the Minister take that away and think about it ? I will be happy to look into that and come back to the hon . gentleman . we both agree that biometric be important . we want to ensure that they be compromise only in the most exceptional circumstance so that we can protect national security , but it be important that we show a degree of discretion when people — young people , in particular — find themselves in the hard of situation . I will be happy to look into the issue and write to he . the hon . Gentleman also mention processing time for family reunion application , and I want to address that directly . in general , UKVI be operate well and be meet its service standard in all , or almost all , visa category , but there be delay with respect to family reunion — a point that he and other member have raise in the past . we acknowledge the need to dedicate more resource to support the safe and legal route and be review process to streamline decision making to make it more efficient for applicant . we recognise that the family member of those with protection status in the UK be particularly vulnerable . when the out - of - country decision make team receive a request for prioritisation from an applicant or their representative , that will be assess to determine whether the application should be prioritise . as I say in answer to the hon . Gentleman ' s previous comment , we do not prioritise in a blanket way because of nationality , but we do give priority to case involve particularly vulnerable individual . example of ground for prioritisation may include applicant or sponsor who have serious medical condition or terminal illness . the list of ground for prioritisation be non - exhaustive ; manager undertake a holistic consideration of the applicant ' s circumstance when consider a request for prioritisation . the hon . Gentleman also ask about the cost of refugee family reunion . it be free — no fee it levy , although he do raise some of the ally cost that go with it . we make sure that the route be free for obvious reason . the hon . Gentleman also ask about child sponsor . the family reunion policy be intend to allow those grant protection status in the UK to sponsor , pre - flight , immediate family member to join they here . we must avoid create an incentive for people , particularly child , to leave their family and risk very dangerous journey , hope that relative will be able to join they later . we do , unfortunately , come across example of that , include through the small boat route , which be among the most perilous of journey that a child could make . there be other provision in the immigration rule that cater for extended family member and , where a valid application do not meet the criterion within our rule , include child sponsor , we consider whether there be compelling compassionate factor that warrant a granting outside the rule . we believe that be child allow to sponsor parent , that would create a real risk of an incentive for more child to be encourage , or even force , to leave their family and risk very hazardous journey to the UK . that play into the hand of criminal gang that exploit vulnerable people , and go against all our safeguard responsibility and instinct . our policy be not design to keep child refugee apart from their parent , but in consider any policy we have to think carefully about the wide impact to avoid put more people unnecessarily into harm ' s way . finally , I will answer the broad question about refugee resettlement . we have a proud record as a country , have offer half a million people a safe and legal route into the UK . we understand that the scale of disruption and situation around the world mean that so many people find themselves in grave need . our approach have to be consider very carefully , but we want to continue to work with international organisation , such as the one that the hon . member reference . we have a good relationship with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees through our global resettlement scheme , and early in the year , through the Illegal Migration Act 2023 , we legislate so that we can introduce further scheme in the future . I recently launch a consultation in which we ask every local authority in the whole of the United Kingdom to give we their capacity to take refugee on such scheme over the course of the year to come . that consultation be open and I encourage the hon . member to talk to his local authority and see whether it be take part in it . we will carefully consider the response , and if they suggest that there be further capacity across the UK , that will lead we either to extend exist scheme or to create new one so that the UK can play an even great and more generous role in the year ahead in help more people from place such as Sudan to come to the UK . I thank the hon . member for secure the debate , and all our colleague tonight who have listen or contribute . I fully understand the interest in the subject , give the great concern that everyone feel about the situation in Sudan . I hope that I have set out our record and the work that we be do , and give he some assurance that he and I can work closely together to learn from his experience , and his evident sincere concern about the issue , to ensure that the scheme be operate as well as it can . question put and agree to . House adjourn . Deferred Division Strikes : Minimum Service Levels that the draft Strikes ( Minimum Service Levels : NHS Ambulance Services and the NHS Patient Transport Service ) Regulations 2023 , which be lay before this House on 7 November , be approve . Bim Afolami Nickie Aiken Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Scott Benton Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Steve Brine Paul Bristow Anthony Browne Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Conor Burns Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Gregory Campbell Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy David Davis Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Jeffrey M . Donaldson Michelle Donelan Steve Double Oliver Dowden Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Lucy Frazer George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Marcus Fysh Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon Paul Girvan John Glen Robert Goodwill Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Paul Holmes Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Jeremy Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Ranil Jayawardena Mark Jenkinson Andrea Jenkyns Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Theresa May Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Gavin Robinson Mary Robinson Lee Rowley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chris Skidmore Chloe Smith Greg Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Julian Sturdy Rishi Sunak James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler John Whittingdale James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Debbie Abrahams Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Paula Barker Hilary Benn Clive Betts Paul Blomfield Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Sara Britcliffe Lyn Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Dan Carden Sarah Champion Jeremy Corbyn Neil Coyle Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Angela Eagle Jonathan Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Chris Elmore Bill Esterson Chris Evans Stephen Farry Colleen Fletcher Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Louise Haigh Paulette Hamilton Neale Hanvey Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris John Healey Meg Hillier Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Peter Kyle Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Tony Lloyd Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Kenny MacAskill Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Stephen McPartland Ian Mearns Navendu Mishra Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Matthew Pennycook Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Lucy Powell Angela Rayner Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Michael Shanks Virendra Sharma Andrew Slaughter Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Alex Sobel John Spellar Keir Starmer Jo Stevens Alistair Strathern Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Gareth Thomas Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Beth Winter Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner the House divide : Ayes 297 , Noes 166 . question accordingly agree to .