I look forward to that opportunity . I have write to the North East Mayor ask for engagement on that , and I would be delighted if the hon . Lady join I for such a meeting , should it arise . ferryhill station be not just about travel ; it be also about economic regeneration . the station close as part of the Beeching cut in 1967 , the same year that the Ferryhill mine close — and the same year , as it happen , that I move out of Ferryhill to Newton Aycliffe , about six mile away . it mean that resident lose not just a source of local job , but a mean of travel to new job . it be therefore an imperative that the project , which be recently confirm again by the Prime Minister , now make urgent progress . like any investment , it will show the community at or near the station — Ferryhill , Chilton , Mainsforth , Dean Bank , Cornforth and Bishop Middleham — that they be value , while also present increase opportunity for those that be slightly far away , such as Spennymoor and Tudhoe . one of the tenet of my election in 2019 be the desire to improve access to opportunity for all , and no one be more needing or deserving of opportunity than the resident of what be , and still be , describe as mining village . one cause of mine have be to encourage aspiration , particularly for the young people of Sedgefield , and that flow from session with the ambassador of Ferryhill primary school , lead by Glenys Newby , as well as visit to school in Hurworth , Wheatley Hill and everywhere in between . to enable and encourage aspiration , it be critical that we create opportunity . opportunity come from job and career , which be why I be so pleased about the growth of NETPark , a science community within two mile of Fishburn , a former mining village . close to my mining community be the new town of Newton Aycliffe , which offer 10 , 000 job , include at Hitachi . it be fundamental for the recovery of the mining community that industry of the future can be sustain , include at Hitachi . I be work with everyone from union to the Secretary of State , to find a way for those industry to continue admirably inspire their workforce in the future . however , they will help the community most in need only if my mining village can reach they via the bus connection that I mention . if we wish to secure future growth , we must develop new skill . I be enormously encourage by the growth in apprenticeship in the area , where 13 , 490 have start since 2010 , and by the increase quality of our school , which be help to deliver well educational outcome . over the past 14 year , we have go from 67 % of our school be rate good or outstanding to 91 % today . opportunity be support by education , and I have be delighted to engage not only with school but with the amazing university that support my constituency — most notably Durham University . I commend the work be do to reach out to community . I be delighted that Fiona Hill , the recently appoint chancellor of Durham University , hail from Bishop Auckland , a place with challenge similar to those in my community , so she get it . Fiona Hill hail from a disadvantaged background but manage to rise to work on the international stage , and have now return to become chancellor of Durham University . I support the university ' s " Shy bairn get nowt " project , which be an attempt to instil more confidence in our young people so that they speak up and be not only hear but listen to . I have such hope for the former mining community in my area . we need to continue effort to support education and aspiration , and to deliver well transport for those community . despite their challenge , I can see the potential they have to reinvent themselves . however , I can not stress enough just how crucial bus and train service be to that process . I look forward to see the service improve and those amazing community become the place that they deserve to be .