Oral Answers to Questions Wales the Secretary of State be ask — propose Visitor Levy whether she have have discussion with the Welsh Government on the potential impact of the propose visitor levy on the economy in Wales . in 2024 , british resident take over 7 . 5 million overnight trip in Wales , and during these trip they spend a total of £ 2 . 24 billion . Wales ' s tourism sector be thrive , as be clear to see last month during the visit of the Under - Secretary of State for Wales , my hon . friend the Member for Llanelli ( Dame Nia Griffith ) , to Elan Valley Lakes , which will benefit from an £ 11 . 8 million investment from both the UK and Welsh Governments . accord to the Welsh Government , if a visitor levy be to be introduce by all Welsh authority , that could potentially raise up to £ 33 million . with the Welsh bottle deposit scheme go down the same disastrous dead end as the scottish bottle deposit scheme , and now more cost be be add to Welsh tourism , make staycation more expensive , the Government appear to be create a hostile environment for business . add in the review of the UK internal market , which be mean to make do business across this great land of our easier . why be the Government loosen the bond of our great Union ? Wales be the second - good recycling nation in the whole world . I call the shadow Secretary of State . attack the Welsh hospitality sector with the Welsh Government ' s disastrous tourism tax be supposedly a good plan , yet their impact assessment warn of a potential loss of over a quarter of a billion pound of taxpayer ' money . meanwhile , last week Labour pull the plug on funding for the western gateway , a vital scheme focus on boost the Welsh economy . can the Secretary of State now explain to taxpayer what the £ 205 million will actually do for Cardiff airport , and do she regret both government ' decision ? today , the chief executive officer of Bristol airport have openly voice huge concern about the Welsh Labour Government ' s decision to spend the money on Cardiff airport , with no obvious benefit or transparency — a move cost each Welsh household an additional £ 300 . investment in Cardiff airport be a matter for the Welsh Government . I recognise the importance of Cardiff airport to the economy of the South Wales region , with thousand of job stem from the airport and the economic ecosystem support by it . airline such as Tui and Vueling have recently add several new destination and extra flight from Cardiff airport . in the light of the Welsh Government ' s sustain support for Welsh tourism , I be delighted to welcome today ' s news that Tui be expand its service at Cardiff , with more new route and an increase in flight to place such as Tenerife and Mallorca . yesterday , Wales lose a musical icon with the passing of Mike Peters from the Alarm . Mike have an extraordinary relationship with his fan , and he bring thousand of visitor from across the world into the area for his annual event , the Gathering . Mike Peters , his warmth and his music put north Wales on the map for visitor from far and wide . will my right hon . friend join I in pay tribute to Mike and to the power of music to bring people together like nothing else ? order . I be sure that the answer will be about the impact of the levy . music tourism be a huge part of the Welsh visitor economy , and I be very sad to hear about Mike Peters ' death . Mike and the Alarm be the sound of my teenage year when I be grow up in north Wales . he be a proud Welshman , a hugely talented musician and a man of incredible resilience . as well as bring music tourism to north Wales , he dedicate much of his life to charitable work to support blood cancer patient , and I know he will be miss . violence against Women and girl whether she have have discussion with Cabinet colleague on the potential merit of create a new offence of domestic abuse to help tackle violence against woman and girl in Wales . I know that this be a deeply personal matter for the hon . member , and I commend he for his committed campaigning on this vital subject . this Labour Government agree that more must be do to tackle violence against woman and girl , which be why we have introduce a pilot this week in Wales that will enable victim and their friend , family and support worker to apply for a domestic abuse protection order . we have commission David Gauke , a former Justice Secretary , to conduct an independent review to examine how sentencing guideline can good address crime of violence against woman and girl in the future . I ask the Government via a write parliamentary question how many domestic abuser there be in prison in Wales , and what their reoffende rate be . the response be : " it be not possible to robustly calculate the number of domestic abuser in prison or their reoffende rate … because these crime be record under the specific offence for which they be prosecute " . there be no specific offence of domestic abuse in law , which mean we be not record this comprehensively , we be not rehabilitate comprehensively and we be not protect victim comprehensively . if the government do not create an offence , as I have propose , what will they do to protect the victim and survivor and to well identify these abuser ? I understand that the hon . Member be bring forward a private member ' s Bill on domestic abuse . we recognise that be able to identify domestic abuse offender be critical , but the Government be not convince that the Bill provide a solution to that challenge . however , the Ministry of Justice will continue to consider how it can make improvement to how we identify offender . I call the Chair of the Welsh Affairs Committee . tomorrow I will be visit the new sexual violence support centre in Rothbury House in my constituency , along with Jane Hutt , the Welsh Government Minister for Social Justice . this great new facility will support many people in my constituency and the surround area for year to come . will the Minister join I in applaud the vital work of the staff — many of they volunteer — who provide lifesave support to woman in need ? I pay tribute to that support centre , and indeed to the many organisation the length and breadth of Wales that help woman flee domestic violence . as my hon . friend know , we work very closely with the Welsh Government . indeed , I speak to Cabinet Secretary Jane Hutt only yesterday . as my hon . friend will also know , the Welsh Government launch their own strategy for combat violence against woman , domestic abuse and sexual violence back in 2022 , and they be carefully monitor progress on it . I call the shadow Secretary of State . the House will be as horrify as I be to learn from a shocking report in the Times that a labour - lead local authority apparently show teenager a PowerPoint in which they be urge to seek consent from their partner before choke they during sex . it be abhorrent to even attempt to normalise strangle in a love relationship — indeed , in any relationship . it be important to note that the council in question do not categorically deny this at first , but do so after there be , rightly , a backlash . do the Minister agree that even consider show such appalling content to pupil in Welsh school be totally unacceptable , and will she undertake to hold her colleague to account on this part of the so - call Welsh curriculum ? it be very distressing to hear what the hon . Member have say , but I would say to she that the independent pornography review be a wide - range and thorough piece of work that assess the effectiveness of pornography legislation , regulation and enforcement . the review ' s final report be publish on 27 February , and its finding continue to be assess by the Government . it be right that the Government take the time to understand this complex and deeply important topic , and a further update will be provide in due course . if I may , I would just stress the point that the review recommend make non - fatal strangulation pornography clearly and explicitly illegal to possess , distribute and publish . I think we can all agree that violence against woman and girl be an all - too - frequent occurrence . the Office for National Statistics have publish datum reveal that , shockingly , 4 . 3 % of woman age between 16 and 59 in England and Wales suffer a sexual assault in 2023 - 24 , up from 3 . 4 % in 2009 - 10 . woman and girl will only truly be safe if we rid society of the appalling rape gang , and a Welsh rape gang survivor have publicly call for an inquiry into this . have the Minister meet the safeguarding Minister — the Under - Secretary of State for the Home Department , the hon . member for Birmingham Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) — to reflect on this and to deliver for victim in Wales ? if not , on behalf of the woman and girl who want answer , who want to be hear and who want to see action in Wales and more widely , may I again ask if she will push the Welsh Government to use the Inquiries Act 2005 to ensure that Welsh victim get justice ? the previous Government sit on their hand and fail to deliver on the recommendation of the independent inquiry into child sexual abuse , whereas this Government have already announce a comprehensive set of plan to implement all the recommendation to prevent the horror of child sexual abuse , include : the introduction of mandatory reporting ; the creation of a new child protection authority ; and the removal of the three - year statute of limitation period for personal injury claim bring by victim of child sexual abuse . I will just stress that this be a reserved matter and that my Government colleague have frequent discussion with colleague in the Welsh Government . family Farms : impact of Spring Statement what assessment she have make of the potential impact of the spring statement 2025 on family farm in Wales . what assessment she have make of the potential impact of the spring statement 2025 on family farm in Wales . just this morning I have the pleasure of visit the Carmarthenshire Day exhibition in the Jubilee Room , which I strongly recommend as a real display of Welsh farming and food produce . the Government be steadfastly commit to the farming sector . we protect the farm budget at its current level and allocate £ 337 million to the Welsh Government at the autumn Budget . the Welsh Government , in their budget , have use that to maintain the basic payment scheme , provide much - need support for farmer across Wales — a budget that , as the hon . Lady know , Tory and Plaid Cymru Senedd Members try to block . I draw the attention of the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . not only be Labour ' s family farm tax threaten the future of farming in Wales ; it be also a direct attack on farmer right across the UK . in England , the sustainable farming incentive scheme be close with no notice . meanwhile , in Labour ' s spring statement the Government bring forward : increase in national insurance , hit all farmer once again ; their tax on double cab pick - up ; plus change to furnish holiday let , penalise farmer who have actively diversify . can the Minister explain to the Welsh agricultural sector why the Government be carry out an all - out assault on its way of life ? just pick up on the point about national insurance contribution , as the hon . Lady will know , many farmer employ one or two people , so they will come under the category of some of the small business . we have make sure that we protect they by double the employment allowance to £ 10 , 500 , mean that over half of small and microbusinesse will pay less or no national insurance contribution at all . her Senedd colleague vote against the budget for Welsh farmer in the Senedd only a few week ago . the Minister seem to have no grasp whatsoever of the constant struggle face our family farm in Wales and across the United Kingdom , because of the lack of support in both Labour ' s spring statement and labour ' s family farm tax . farming family be not multimillionaire — they be strive to make a profit , with many earn less than the minimum wage . will the Minister finally accept that farm be crucial to the UK ' s food security , and that the Government should support they and scrap the vindictive family farm tax ? we applaud the work that farmer do — they be vital to our food security . as the hon . Gentleman will know , there be many way in which we have support farmer , include the £ 337 million give to they in the Budget this year and pass on by Welsh Government Ministers to our farmer in Wales . he bring up inheritance tax . I remind he that we be maintain significant level of relief from inheritance tax beyond what be available to other and compare to the position before 1992 . where inheritance tax be due , those liable for a charge can pay any liability on relevant asset over 10 annual instalment , interest free . the Welsh Government ' s budget contain over £ 300 million to support Welsh farmer . be it not the case that Plaid Cymru and the Tories put Welsh farmer ’ livelihood at risk by vote against the Welsh Government ' s recent budget ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . brexit : Economic Impact what assessment she have make of the potential impact of the UK ' s departure from the EU on the economy in Wales . we be negotiate a new partnership with the EU and believe that secure a broad - base security partnership , bring close co - operation on law and order and tackle barrier to trade will boost our economy , keep we safe and improve family ' finance . since come into government , I have work with UK and Welsh Government colleague to drive more than £ 1 . 5 billion in private investment into Wales from the like of Eren Holding and Copenhagen Infrastructure Partners , create hundred of job and lay the groundwork for thousand more . only this Government can deliver cold comfort and warm word all in the same sentence . the fact of the matter be that , after the Labour - Tory hard Brexit , the Welsh economy suffer by £ 4 billion , trade have go down by £ 1 billion and Wales have lose £ 1 billion in european structural and development funding . on top of that , the Labour Budget have kick Wales even far down the track . when will the Secretary of State stand up to her Westminster master and finally do something in the interest of the people of Wales ? Welsh business both large and small tell we time and again that they be be hold back by red tape . we need to tackle the barrier to trade in order to help drive investment , job and growth for both the UK and EU economy . nationalist can continue their obsession with the constitution , put up border instead of break down barrier , and raise taxis on work people , as they have do in Scotland . close collaboration between the UK and the EU on defence and defence spending be an important part of strengthen our relationship and will be important for the Welsh economy , include for company such as EnerSys , which I visit recently , which produce specialist battery for defence and other application . will the Secretary of State say a bit more about how increase defence spending will aid the Welsh economy and company such as EnerSys , particularly in advanced manufacturing and supply chain ? my hon . friend be absolutely right about the potential for growth . this government ' s commitment to increase defence spending mean that our strong defence manufacturing base in Wales and the skilled job it support have real potential for growth . the top five supplier to the Ministry of Defence all have a footprint in Wales , and alongside that be a strong supply chain . the forthcoming industrial strategy will set out more detail as to how that advanced manufacturing base will get Government support . report of a new UK - EU strategic partnership to reduce trade barrier will , at last , be a welcome boost to Wales ' s food and drink producer , give that 75 % of the sector ' s export go to the EU . all producer from farm to fork of our wonderful Welsh produce make a vital contribution to Wales ' s economy . will the Secretary of State join I in celebrate all Wales ' s food producer and farmer , especially those at Sioe Nefyn — Nefyn Show — on Monday , and even more so those from Sir G â r , or Carmarthenshire , here today ? I be delighted to support the Welsh food and farming industry , and I absolutely concur with the right hon . Lady ' s comment . on another note , Policy in Practice show that nearly half of the 10 UK local authority area worst hit by labour ' s welfare cut be in Wales — that be 190 , 000 people affect in Wales , hit our post - industrial quarrying and coalmine community hard . how do the Secretary of State explain to Welsh colleague why the community where Labour use to be strong should now suffer so much because of her Government ' s cruel welfare cut ? as the right hon . Lady might know , none of those reform have actually go into effect yet , so nobody have be affect by they . we inherit a Tory welfare system that be the bad of all world : it provide the wrong incentive , discourage people from work , while the people who really need a safety net be still not get the dignity and support they need and deserve , with the taxpayer fund an ever - spiral bill . it be unsustainable , indefensible and unfair . strengthen the Union what step she be take to strengthen the Union . what step she be take to strengthen the Union . in Wales , the partnership between our two Labour Governments be deliver on the people ' s priority . nhs waiting list have fall for three consecutive month . we be create ten of thousand of job in every corner of Wales through our freeport , investment zone , support for steelworker , inward investment and thriving green industry . support people into work be the right thing to do , not just economically but morally . I therefore welcome the recently announce UK Trailblazer programme in north Wales , which will do away with the one - size - fit - all approach and will instead meet people where they be , give they a great chance to secure stable and good employment . do the Secretary of State agree that this show the power of the partnership that we now have , and our commitment that no one , on either side of the M4 , will be leave behind ? also , will the Secretary of State join I in congratulate Wrexham football team on their historic back - to - back - to - back promotion this weekend to the English football league championship ? many congratulation to Wrexham . I be delighted to see they promote , and very sad to see Cardiff relegate . my hon . friend be right : the Government understand that work be crucial not just to our health and wellbeing , but to improve our living standard . that be why we announce last week a £ 10 million pilot in Blaenau Gwent , Neath Port Talbot and Denbighshire to support people back into work . we will not sit by and let the Tories ' break welfare system continue , which have condemn people to a life without work . these Trailblazer project will help more people in Wales back into secure , well - pay job . since this UK Labour Government be elect , more than 2 million extra gp appointment have be deliver in England , and thank to a record - break £ 21 billion Budget settlement , waiting list in Wales have go down three month in a row . do the Secretary of State agree that our NHS and our country be safe and strong when we have two government work together to make devolution work , not to tear our Union apart ? I could not agree more with my hon . friend . drive down NHS waiting list be a share priority for both the UK and the Welsh Labour Governments . as she say , waiting list have fall for three consecutive month as a result of our two government work together . meanwhile , the Conservatives and Plaid Cymru vote against an extra £ 600 million for the Welsh NHS , and Reform would sell off the NHS to the high bidder . do the Secretary of State think that the imposition from tomorrow of a parcel border between Great Britain and Northern Ireland will strengthen the Union , give that parcel , business to business , from Wales or any other part of the UK to Northern Ireland , will now be subject to EU custom declaration and check ? how do that strengthen the Union ? I thank the hon . and learn Member for his question . as I say in reply to an early question , we want to make sure that trading be make easy and that we remove the red tape and barrier . those be the discussion that we be have at the moment with the EU . do the Minister agree that what strengthen this Union be the nation of Wales , Scotland and Northern Ireland intertwine with England ? it be the gaelic nation of Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland and their culture and history that bring we together . the Union also bring benefit relate to employment , job and opportunity . it be about the constitution and our service in uniform . all those thing bring we together in a way that nothing else can , and mean that this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland be well as a Union ; we can all do well together . I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . I definitely believe that the UK be strong with the four nation work together . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . there be no great threat to our Union than the feeling that worker in one nation matter less than those in another . People in and around Port Talbot feel that they have have a rotten deal . can the Minister explain why , under the deal that her Government do with Tata , worker who have be at the company for long than 25 year do not have that service reflect in their redundancy payment , and why worker wish to access the retrain element have to forgo their right to the enhance redundancy payment ? be it true that , as have be report , as of February , only three people have apply for that scheme ? Tata make the decision to close the blast furnace in January 2024 , six month before the general election . it close the coke oven in March 2024 , when an agreement on the grant for the electric arc furnace have already be make . the hon . Gentleman might remember that blast furnace 5 close down on polling day . the timeline be fix for that electric arc furnace to be deliver . in 10 week , we negotiate a well deal , with well term and protection for the whole workforce at Port Talbot . there be no immediate compulsory redundancy . we see the good voluntary redundancy package ever offer by Tata to its UK workforce . we save 5 , 000 job , and 385 acre of land be be release for development , regeneration and future opportunity at the site . all in all , this be £ 1 . 3 billion investment deal . that be very different from the situation in Scunthorpe . Prime Minister the Prime Minister be ask — Engagements if he will list his official engagement for Wednesday 30 April . yesterday evening , Royal Air Force Typhoons successfully conduct strike against Houthi military target in Yemen in a joint operation with our US ally . this action be in line with the long - stand policy of the UK Government to defend freedom of navigation in the Red sea , after Houthi attack fuel regional instability and risk economic security for family in the UK . I be pleased to say that all UK aircraft and personnel return safely , and I pay tribute to the professionalism and bravery of all our servicemen and servicewoman . the Defence Secretary will make a statement about this immediately after Prime Minister ' s question . I congratulate Prime Minister Mark Carney on his election in Canada . our two country be the close of Commonwealth ally , partner and friend . we will work together to deepen our economic relationship to benefit work people here in the UK . may I also congratulate everyone across the House , include member and those in the Press Gallery , who run marathon in London and Manchester ? in particular , I congratulate the hon . member for Gordon and Buchan ( Harriet Cross ) on run the fast time of any female MP . of course , I also congratulate the shadow Justice Secretary , who I be reliably informed be still run . this morning I have meeting with ministerial colleague and other . in addition to my duty in this House , I shall have further such meeting later today . I associate myself with the remark of the Prime Minister about the professionalism of our armed force , and I too congratulate Mark Carney on be elect Prime Minister of Canada . I also congratulate everybody who take part in the London marathon . both my daughter have do it , but it be sadly something I can not do any more . later today , I will introduce a Bill to guarantee that Parliament have the final say on any trade deal , include any agreement with President Trump . this idea be not new ; it be exactly what Labour promise to do in an official policy paper put forward in 2001 , so I be ask this Government to keep their promise . [ Official Report , 1 May 2025 ; Vol . 766 , c . 3WC . ] ( Correction ) currently , member of Parliament have no vote or voice on trade deal . will the Prime Minister — Order . I think the hon . Gentleman be on a marathon himself . I call the Prime Minister . I extend my congratulation to the hon . member ' s daughter for run the marathon . the Government retain the right to strike trade deal to deliver growth , job and opportunity for work people . we clearly set that out in our manifesto , and that be exactly what we be do . as he know , Parliament have a well - establish role in scrutinise and ratify trade deal , and as he reference , that be strengthen under the last Labour Government . Mr Speaker , " there be go to have to be a come together of Reform and the conservative party in some way " — a deal , a pact or a merger . those be not my word , but the word of the most senior Tory in elect public office in the country , the Mayor of the Tees Valley . if senior Tories be plot it , and the Leader of the Opposition will not deny it , be not the only way to stop the plot to vote Labour tomorrow ? order . there be no need to answer that , Prime Minister ; you have no responsibility for any of that . on Monday , the Prime Minister ' s safeguard Minister — the Under - Secretary of State for the Home Department , the hon . member for Birmingham Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) — admit on the Floor of the House that there be a cover - up of the child rape gang scandal . do the Prime Minister think we should expose this cover - up ? this be obviously a serious issue . I oversee the first groom gang prosecution , which be in Rochdale , more than a decade ago . there be a contrast here , because when the Leader of the opposition be Minister for child and Minister for Women and Equalities , she never raise this issue in the House in three year . the shadow Home Secretary , the right hon . member for Croydon South ( Chris Philp ) , hold 352 external meeting during 20 month . how many be on this issue ? not one . of course , the Conservatives fail to implement a single recommendation from the independent inquiry into child sexual abuse . my position be absolutely clear : where there be evidence , the police should investigate and there should be appropriate prosecution . that be route no . 1 . route no . 2 be that we should implement exist recommendation , which do expose what go wrong . those recommendation be not implement by the last government ; they be be implement by this Government . we be provide for local inquiry . we be invest more in deliver truth and justice for victim than the conservative party do in 14 long year . in the last year of the Conservative Government , we have a gang taskforce that find 500 perpetrator , protect thousand of victim . we launch the inquiry that the Prime Minister be talk about , but more still need to be do . it be now four month since I ask he for a full national inquiry . instead , he promise five local inquiry . there will be one in Oldham . will he now name where the other four will be ? we be provide for local inquiry — [ interruption . ] conservative Members have get so much to say now ; why do they not implement a single recommendation in the 14 year they have in office ? there be recommendation already in place about the change that need to be make . they sit on a shelf under the last government ; we be act on they . we be provide for local inquiry , and we be invest more in deliver truth than the last Government ever do . the Prime Minister can not name a single place because nothing be happen . he stand at the Dispatch Box and promise five local inquiry . on the last day of term , he have his Minister come out to water down the promise that they would provide funding . that be not good enough . at least 50 town be affect by rape gang — place like Peterborough , Derby , Birmingham , Nottingham , Leicester , Rotherham , Rochdale and Preston . be he drag his heel on this because he do not want Labour cover - up expose ? I spend five year prosecute these case . I be the prosecutor who bring the first case , and when that file be bring to my attention , I notice that one of the defendant have not be prosecute previously . far from cover up , I ask for that file so I could have a look at it . on the back of that , I change the entire approach to prosecution , which be laud by the then government — we be do the right thing — and bring those prosecution . my record , where I think something have go wrong , be of go after it and put it right . the Leader of the opposition stay silent throughout the Conservatives ' year in government , and so do their entire Front Bench . the right hon . and learn Gentleman be not the Director of Public Prosecutions any more — he be the Prime Minister . People want to know what he be go to do now , not have he talk about what he do year ago . we be ask for a full national inquiry . Andy Burnham want a national inquiry , and he be not conservative ; he be Labour . Harriet Harman want one . the hon . member for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) want one . all the victim I have meet want a full national inquiry . the Prime Minister keep talk about local inquiry , yet they have not get go , and they have not get go because local authority do not want to investigate themselves . local inquiry can not force witness to appear . local inquiry can not force people to give evidence under oath . why will he not have a national inquiry ? we have have a national inquiry , and we have have recommendation . [ interruption . ] look , hundred of recommendation have be make in relation to this issue . it be a serious issue . I strongly believe that we should implement the recommendation that have already be make , and that be what we be do . I strongly believe that we should listen to victim . Labour Members have be listen to victim for decade and work with they in relation to what they want , which be local inquiry , and we have set those local inquiry up . the Prime Minister say we should listen to victim . the victim want a national inquiry . we have not have a national inquiry . we have the child sex abuse inquiry , which the Conservatives launch . there be still more to be do ; it do not cover the scandal in detail . in Manchester , just last year , authority be still cover up abuse , and the local inquiry chair there have quit . Bradford council , which cover an area with some of the bad abuse , refuse any inquiry , local or national . whether we be talk about the street of Birmingham or the town hall of Bradford , it be chaos and cover up with labour council . when will he show leadership and do the right thing ? the right thing be to implement the recommendation that we have , which be what the Conservatives palpably fail to do in government . the right thing to do be to have the national inquiry that we need , which be what the victim want . the right thing to do be to invest in our criminal justice system , so we can bring people to justice . the Conservatives have absolutely collapse the criminal justice system . prosecution for rape under their watch : do they go up or down ? they go down to record low . investment in prosecute these case go down . their record be abysmal ; they should hang their head in shame . these be just distraction tactic . the Prime Minister have not read the recommendation , because if he have , he would know that none of they would tackle this issue . the fact be , if I be stand where he be , we would have have a national inquiry month ago . this issue be personal for I . I have meet many of the victim . this be about the protection of child ; nothing else be more important . in the last few day , I have be to Wiltshire , Lincolnshire , Northumberland and Kent . all of they have outstanding child ' s social care . do you know why , Mr Speaker ? because they be all run by conservative . that be the difference that conservative councillor make . be the choice tomorrow not between chaos and cover up under labour council , and well service under the Conservatives ? the right hon . Lady say that the Conservatives would have a national inquiry ; in 14 year , they do not do it . it be so hollow . yes , tomorrow be the country ' s first opportunity to pass its verdict on the Leader of the Opposition and the Conservative party after the general election . have they change ? have they learn ? we will see she next week . I wish that the Leader of the opposition would stop weaponise victim of child sexual abuse to score political point . it be damaging victim , and if she care about child protection she would not do that . it be a disgrace ; you be a disgrace . new datum show that in March last year , in the Hyson Green and Arboretum ward in my constituency , 64 % of child be in poverty , which be the high proportion in the whole of the east midland and a damn indictment of the previous Conservative Government . one of the proud achievement of the last Labour Government be the action they take on child poverty . will the Prime Minister confirm that this Labour Government will do everything in their power to eliminate child poverty , and that their taskforce have not rule out abolish the two - child benefit limit , which be the single most cost - effective way to pull child out of poverty ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to raise the disgraceful record of the previous Government , who see an extra 900 , 000 child in poverty . I be proud of Labour ' s record in reduce child poverty , which be what we do in government , and the taskforce be explore every lever to reduce child poverty . I call the leader of the Liberal Democrats . on behalf of my party , may I send our congratulation to Mark Carney and the Liberal party of Canada on their historic victory ? we wish they well , as Canada continue to stand up strongly to President Trump ' s tariff and threat . Canada have learn what happen when a trade deal be do with President Trump ; he can not be trust to stick with it . the Prime Minister do not answer my question last week , nor he do answer my hon . friend the Member for Wokingham ( Clive Jones ) just now . let I ask again . will the Government give member a vote on the Floor of the House on any deal he agree with President Trump — yes or no ? we be in negotiation on a deal with the US . we will obviously act in the national interest to make sure that if there be a deal , it be the right deal for our country . if it be secure , it will go through the known procedure for this House . I be very disappointed by that reply , and the lack of a yes or no response . we want a vote , and we will keep press the Prime Minister and his Government on that . turn to a domestic issue , my hon . friend the Member for Dorking and Horley ( Chris Coghlan ) have take up the cause of Fiona Laskaris , whose autistic adult son Christopher be horrifically exploit and then murder by a convict criminal . as " ITV News " have report , when Fiona try to get a mental capacity assessment for her son , she be dismiss , so Christopher never get the support that might have save his life . we be go to try to change the law so that family ' concern over a love one ' s mental capacity have to be consider . will the Prime Minister give his personal backing to that change , to prevent another tragedy like Christopher ' s ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for raise that terrible case , and I think the thought of the whole House will be with Christopher ' s family and friend affect by this . we will certainly look into what else we can do , and if there be further detail that could be give to I of that particular case , I will make sure that we follow it up . I start by congratulate Truro City football club , who have go from homelessness to league champion in one season . in Cornwall , clean energy be a huge opportunity . we be fortunate to have vast natural resource , with onshore and offshore wind , geothermal and tidal . we have a strategically vital port and a workforce ready to step up . I welcome that Falmouth community hospital will be get new solar panel and benefit from those first investment make by GB Energy . as we pursue our clean power plan , will the Prime Minister confirm that this be just the beginning of that investment in renewable in Cornwall ? can I add my congratulation to Truro ? clean energy investment be power our plan for change , and that be just the beginning . we will go far : 200 school and hundred of NHS site across the country will benefit from GB Energy ' s first solar project , include Falmouth community hospital in my hon . friend ' s constituency . hospital will save £ 45 , 000 a year off their energy bill , with that money go back to the frontline service . that be the well future we be build : good for patient and good for job , growth and our energy security . to date so far this year , 10 , 000 young undocumented male have illegally cross the english channel into our country — a 40 % increase on this time last year — many come from culture that be somewhat alien to ours . they be be house at a cost of many billion of pound a year in hotel and , increasingly , in private rent home . the effect on community be one of a sense of deep unfairness , border on resentment . in Runcorn alone , there be 750 of these young man just in one community . be it not time to admit that " smash the gang " be nothing more than an election slogan , not a policy , and be it not time to declare a national emergency and to act accordingly ? we be pass a border Bill with extensive power to smash the gang . these be anti - terrorist - like power that give power to the police to intercept where they think the suspect be commit people smuggling , which be a vile trade , and we must take back control of our border after the last Government lose control . but what do the hon . Gentleman and his party do ? do they support those extra measure to actually smash the gang ? no . they go into the Lobby to vote against they with the Conservatives in their new coalition . and let we be clear what a vote for his party mean . it mean a vote to charge for the NHS , a pro - putin foreign policy and a vote against worker ’ right . and now we hear that he have recruit Liz Truss as his new top adviser , just as he be cheer on the mini - Budget . for year , my constituent in Orrell have suffer from a lack of local health provision , but next month that will begin to change , thank to a new partnership that I have build with our local NHS , Wigan Athletic and Wigan Warriors at a centre for excellence in woman ' s sport . this will be a shine example of shift healthcare from hospital into community . can I urge the Prime Minister to continue with our plan for change and to ignore the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) , who for decade have push to dismantle our nhs so that my constituent would have to pay to see their doctor ? I see the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) complain , but what do he say ? his word be , " we ' re go to have to move to an insurance - base system of healthcare " and : " if you can afford it , you pay " — not under our watch . while he be busy take Liz Truss ' s advice and fawn over Putin , we be drive down waiting list , with 3 million extra appointment deliver and waiting list slash in the most deprive area . that be six time that the waiting list have come down , include during the winter period . we be rebuild our NHS , rebuild our country ' s future and deliver for work people . just before Christmas , thousand of my constituent be leave without water after yet another incident involve Southern Water — the late in a long series of issue , include outage and sewage dumping in our precious chalk stream , the River Itchen . yet this month , my constituent face water bill hike of 47 % . do the Prime Minister understand why my constituent be so angry about that , and what reassurance can he give they that Southern Water and Ofwat will be hold to account ? I thank the hon . member for raise this , and the Conservatives should apologise to her constituent for allow record sewage into our waterway . our water Act will clean up our river , lake and sea . under new power that come into effect last week , in fact , water boss can now face year in jail for conceal sewage spill . we have ban the payment of bonus and introduce new power , and of course we be deliver a major review through our water commission . I reassure the hon . member that we will not hesitate to take further step . listen to resident in North West Cambridgeshire on the doorstep and at local coffee morning , there be a clear message : people want local police to have the time and resource to get to know crime in their area and to tackle it at the root . I know our labour mayoral candidate be commit to that if she be elect tomorrow . could the Prime Minister update resident across Cambridgeshire and Peterborough on how our plan for change be tackle crime and antisocial behaviour and boost police rank by 13 , 000 officer , who will be visible in all local community ? the Conservatives decimate neighbourhood policing , and crime like shoplifting and antisocial behaviour run rife . I can tell my hon . friend what we be do through the plan for change : extra police officer , extra police community support officer , more special constable , and — on top of that — a name officer for every community , and more team out in our town centre on Friday and Saturday night . that be what you get with a labour mayor work with a Labour Government to deliver change for Cambridgeshire and Peterborough . Eastbourne war veteran Staff Sergeant Pauline Cole sustain injury while serve our country . she be award military compensation , but because military compensation be currently consider income by this Government , her pension credit have be cut from £ 77 a week to just £ 11 a week . we have meet the relevant Minister to try to address this to no avail . with the 80th anniversary of VE Day just next week , will the Prime Minister meet Pauline , who be in the Gallery , and I to address this injustice and ensure that no veteran be penalise for serve our country ? I thank the hon . member for raise this important issue with we . we will always stand up for those who serve our country , and I pay tribute to Pauline for her service . I will ensure that she get the appropriate meeting that she want and need to discuss her specific case . this week , thank to this Labour Government , hundred of free breakfast club have open across our country . will the Prime Minister join I in send good wish to the staff and pupil at Castle Carrock , Yewdale , Longtown , Inglewood , Brook Street , Blackford , Hallbankgate and Bishop Harvey Goodwin school in my constituency , which be among the first to benefit from this important scheme ? will he confirm that this be just the start of Labour ' s plan for change to deliver for work parent ? let I pay tribute to all the staff in her constituency work in the breakfast club , which of course deliver free breakfast and 30 minute of free childcare , save work parent £ 450 a year . we have open the first 750 across the country , and there will be many more to come . we of course also be save parent £ 50 a year by make school uniform cheap — something the Leader of the opposition order all her troop to vote against . the playing of music and loud video without headphone on public transport be become increasingly common . the various byelaw outlaw such antisocial behaviour be clearly not work , and the plan cut to the British Transport Police be bind to make matter bad . will the Prime Minister back the Lib Dem plan to introduce effective enforcement and a publicity campaign to persuade people to plug in their headphone ? you never know , Mr Speaker ; after that , we could perhaps encourage the uncivil minority to take their foot off the seat . the hon . Gentleman raise an important question about antisocial behaviour . [ interruption . ] the Conservatives be laugh about it ; that really sum up what they do in the past 14 year . he know that there be already strict rule in place to prevent antisocial behaviour , include fine of up to £ 1 , 000 . we be focus on tackle antisocial behaviour . it be not low - level ; it affect people , their community , their sense of safety and what they can do with their own life . that be why an additional £ 1 . 2 billion have be set aside for policing — 13 , 000 new neighbourhood police officer , new respect order and a name officer in every community . we take this seriously ; the Conservatives laugh about it . rent in my constituency be become exceedingly unaffordable . the most recent Office for National Statistics datum estimate that the average rent have rise by 10 % in the past year , while the average wage have not rise at the same rate . several metro mayor be call for the power to control rent in their region in order to tackle the issue . the step take in the Renters ' right Bill to cap rent at the market rate be positive , but as it be landlord who set the market rate , renter in my constituency fear that those step will not be enough to protect they from rise rent . what step be the Government take to bring down rental price ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to raise this important issue . community across the country face the consequence of the Conservatives ' utter failure to build enough home . our Renters ' Rights Bill improve the system for 11 million private renter , block demand for multiple month of rent in advance , and finally abolish no - fault eviction — something that the Conservatives say over and over again they would do , but , as usual , never get around to do . that work be back up by major planning reform , our new home accelerator and £ 600 million to deliver 300 , 000 home in London , as part of the 1 . 5 million home that we will build across the country , which be desperately need . [ Official Report , 1 May 2025 ; Vol . 766 , c . 4wc . ] ( Correction ) do the Prime Minister recall from our history that , even during the blitz , concert pianist Dame Myra Hess continue perform her piano recital at the National Gallery , include the performance of german music such as JS Bach ' s " Jesu , Joy of Man ' s Desiring " ? as a trustee of the Parliament choir and a singer , may I ask he to lend his support to Parliament ' s own VE Day celebration , which will take place next Wednesday evening in Westminster Hall ? we will perform , in the presence of his Royal Highness the Duke of Kent and the speaker of both Houses , not only that Bach chorale , but the music of our ally and some british music , too . ticket be still available . I wish the hon . Gentleman the very good of luck . it will be a fantastic event — just one of the many important celebration take place to commemorate VE day . I encourage the whole House to buy those remain ticket and go along to the concert in Westminster Hall , as well as to the many street party and other event across the country . I look forward to pay my own tribute on VE Day , but I wish he luck . I welcome the Government ' s action to fix our NHS and deliver 2 million more appointment , which my constituent be already benefit from . together with Warrington and Halton NHS trust , I recently submit a ready - to - go proposal for a new urgent treatment centre and out - patient facility in Warrington , which have over 200 , 000 resident but no urgent treatment centre . the proposal would reduce A & E waiting time and deliver 100 , 000 appointment every year . will the Prime Minister or the Health Secretary agree to meet I and local health partner to discuss that transformational project ? I be happy to ensure that my hon . friend meet the Health Secretary . we have get waiting list down for six month in a row now , deliver 3 million extra appointment . the Further Faster 20 programme be double the rate at which waiting list be fall , include in her trust . of course , early this week we freeze prescription charge at under £ 10 . a lot have be do and there be a lot more to do , but our plan for change be work to get the NHS back on its foot . these be the word of a victim who suffer intolerable sexual misconduct in her workplace : " the non - disclosure agreement be entirely one - sided — gag I , but not the man or the exec involve . it cover not just business matter but everything painful I endure . I end up in hospital . " do the Prime Minister agree with I and member across the House that the misuse of nda in case like this be totally unacceptable ? if so , will he help we to amend the Employment Rights Bill , currently go through the Lords , to stop this pervasive practice once and for all ? the hon . Lady be right to highlight this issue . I do not think anybody would countenance the misuse of nda , particularly in a case as serious as the one she cite , which be why we be look at whatever we can do to ensure that they be not misuse . after 14 year of a Conservative Government who let fly - tip increase to record level across the country , my constituent in Ealing Southall will welcome the Prime Minister ' s announcement today that fly - tipper will now face tough action , new technology for enforcement and up to five year in prison . will the Prime Minister set out what other step he be take to help council to tackle fly - tipping and the difference that will make to community like Ealing Southall ? under the last government , we see 1 million incident of fly - tipping . under conservative council , we see enforcement down and fly - tipping up : look at Tory - lead Northumberland , where instance of fly - tipping be up 76 % . we be introduce tough power to seize and crush the vehicle of commercial fly - tipper , who now face up to five year in prison for operate illegally . that be a Labour Government clear up the mess leave by the Conservatives . a week tomorrow , the whole nation will come together to commemorate VE day . those who fight in world war two , include my own father , would often attest that no one do more to maintain their morale in adversity than Dame Vera Lynn , the force ' sweetheart . for several year , a doughty band of campaigner have be try to create a national memorial in her honour . I be pleased to tell the House that they now have a stunning design , that they have a site — appropriately , at Dover — and that they have already raise over three quarter of the funding that they would need . at this very special time , will the Prime Minister lend his support in principle to this noble endeavour , and will he accept a personal briefing on the campaign — in which case I suspect that he and I will meet again ? it be always a pleasure . I congratulate the right hon . gentleman on the campaign ; it be really important and many people will be delighted to join it . Dame Vera be sew into our nation ' s soul as provide the soundtrack for our great generation . it be particularly timely , so I will support the campaign that he have do so much to promote . whether it be crevasse on the island outside Asda in Long Eaton or the array of tyre popper on Quarry Hill Road in Ilkeston , every day my inbox be fill with complaint about pothole that Conservative - lead Derbyshire county council have fail to fix . give that the Government have pour £ 1 . 6 billion of extra funding into road repair and that the Derbyshire county council election be tomorrow , do the Prime Minister agree with I that it be high time that Erewash and wide derbyshire get themselves a Labour council that will actually repair the road ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . Conservative Derbyshire county council be home to more pothole than anywhere else in the country and driver be pay the price . our plan for change have commit enough funding to fix 7 million extra pothole this year . for the first time , council like Derbyshire must publish how many pothole they have actually repair in order to get the cash . the conservative party leave Britain ' s road crumble — we be fix they . the blackout in Spain have cause chaos . there be a realisation among many Back Benchers in the Prime Minister ' s own party that thousand of job be be lose in Scotland in the oil industry . business face energy cost that be make they uncompetitive , and consumer be be plunge into fuel poverty . do the Prime Minister not recognise that his net - zero policy be not only bad , but mad ? indeed , a former leader of his party now accept this . will the Prime Minister accept advice from someone in his own party , if he will not accept advice from those on the Opposition Benches ? in many year on the Opposition Benches , I learn when ask question at pmq not just to read the headline on a Wednesday morning , but to look at some of the detail . what Tony Blair say be that we should have more carbon capture . we have invest in carbon capture — that be many job across different part of the country . he say that AI should be use , and we agree with that : we have invest huge amount in AI and the job of the future . he also say that we need domestic target so that business have certainty . if the right hon . Gentleman look at the detail of what Tony Blair say , he will see that Tony Blair be absolutely align with what we be do here . these be the job and the security of the future . I will also say that we should not weaponise the difficult position that people in Spain and other country find themselves in at a very difficult time . I welcome the Government ' s decision this month to secure British Steel . at a time when european security be critical , defence manufacturer in the Black Country , like Somers Forge in Halesowen and b . b . price in Cradley Heath , will be use that steel to make the military equipment that our defence need . will the Prime Minister commit to make manufacturing investment in the Black Country a national priority so that we can live up to our industrial heritage and create the high - quality defence job that our region so desperately need ? I pay tribute to my hon . and gallant Friend for his service to his country . he understand that our national security and economic security go hand in hand . it be vital that defence investment create more job , apprenticeship and opportunity in the Black Country and across the United Kingdom . that be why we have launch a new hub to give up to 12 , 000 small firm well access to defence contract . we be raise defence spending , with the high sustained increase since the cold war — something that the Conservatives fail to do in 14 year in office . UK Airstrike : Houthi Military Facility I wish to make a statement to update the House on the action we take last night against a Houthi military target . we do so in collective self - defence and to uphold the freedom of navigation , as Britain have always do . yesterday , UK force conduct a joint operation with US ally against a Houthi military facility in Yemen . our intelligence analysis identify a cluster of building 15 mile south of Sanaa use by the Houthis to manufacture drone of the type use to attack ship in the Red sea and in the gulf of Aden . Royal Air Force Typhoon FGR4s , with air refuelling support from RAF Voyager tanker , strike a number of those building with Paveway IV precision bomb last night . this action be limited , targeted and devise to minimise the risk to civilian life . everyone involve in the UK operation have return to base safely . on behalf of the House , I thank all member of our armed force involve in this operation and pay tribute to they for their total professionalism and courage . yesterday ' s operation be carry out alongside the US , our close security ally . it be conduct in line with both the UN charter and the established UK policy of this Government and the last ; you will remember , Mr Speaker , that when Labour be in opposition , it back the government when they conduct five separate strike with the US against Houthi target . yesterday ' s attack align with four broad objective . the first be to restore freedom of navigation in the Red sea and the gulf of Aden , the second be to degrade Houthi capability and prevent future attack , the third be to reinforce regional security alongside ally and partner , and the fourth be to protect our economic security at home . first thing this morning , the Government brief the shadow Defence Secretary , the hon . member for South Suffolk ( James Cartlidge ) ; the speaker of both Houses ; the Liberal Democrats ’ defence spokesperson , the hon . member for Epsom and Ewell ( Helen Maguire ) ; and the Chair of the House of Commons Defence Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Slough ( Mr Dhesi ) . I can now tell the House that our initial assessment be that the plan target be all successfully hit , and we have see no evidence of civilian casualty . since November 2023 , the Houthis have be wage a campaign of aggression against international shipping in the Red sea . to date , there have be over 320 attack ; those attack be illegal and deadly , and we totally condemn they . Maritime route have be disrupt , sailor have be kill , and commercial ship have be hit and sink . the Houthis have even target aid vessel destine for Yemen itself , as well as military vessel of our ally and partner . both the Royal Navy and the US navy have be force into action in the Red sea — last September , I meet the crew of HMS Diamond , who shoot down a ballistic missile and multiple drone in self - defence during their deployment in the Red sea . make no mistake : the Houthis act as an agent of instability across the region . they continue to receive both military and financial backing from Iran , and even Russia have attempt to support the Houthi operation . the aggression in the Red sea and the gulf of Aden be yet another example of how our adversary be increasingly work together against our interest . as such , I want to be clear that this Government reject any Houthi claim that attack ship in the Red sea be somehow support Gaza . the Houthis be target tanker and seize ship well before the war in Gaza begin , and their attack since have target vessel of all nation , so hear I when I say that these attack do absolutely nothing for the palestinian people or the push for a last peace . an estimated 12 % of global trade and 30 % of container traffic pass through the Red sea every year , but the Houthi threat have lead to a drastic fall . level be down by 55 % on what they be in November 2023 ; the majority of ship now take a 5 , 000 - mile diversion around the Cape of Good Hope , add a full fortnight to a journey between Asia and Europe and push up price for the good that british people and other rely on . this can not continue . in opposition , I argue that , for what be now 80 year , " the lion ' s share of the responsibility for protect international freedom of navigation in the Red sea be be shoulder by the Americans , just as the US have be do across the world " — [ Official Report , 24 January 2024 ; Vol . 744 , c . 355 . ] since last month , the US have be conduct a sustained campaign , target the Houthis in Yemen to restore freedom of navigation . it move two carrier into the region , and its recent strike have destroy multiple command and control centre , air defence system , advanced weapon manufacturing site and advanced weapon storage site . the US military say that its operation have now degrade the effectiveness of the Houthi attack , report that ballistic missile launch have drop by 69 % and one - way drone attack be down by 55 % . the US continue to be the UK ' s close security ally . it be step up in the Red sea , and we be alongside it . yesterday ' s joint operation build on the broad support that we have provide to the US in the region in recent month . that include air - to - air refuelling ; the use of our important military base , Diego Garcia , for regional security operation ; and RAF typhoon to support the defence of the US carrier strike group , which have be come under near - daily attack from Houthi missile and drone . this government will always act in the interest of our national and economic security . the UK be step up and encourage ally to do more to protect our common security , just as we be with the eight - month deployment of our carrier strike group to the Mediterranean and the Indo - Pacific , which start last week . the UK have a long and proud history of take action to protect freedom of navigation . this illegal Houthi aggression do not just disrupt shipping and destabilise the region ; it hit our economy here at home . that be why the Government take this decision . it be why the UK have take this action to help protect freedom of navigation , reinforce regional stability and strengthen economic security for family across the country . we be determined that we will keep Britain secure at home and strong abroad . I be grateful to the Secretary of State for early sight of his statement and to the Minister for the Armed Forces for the briefing he extend to I and other parliamentarian early today . as far as his Majesty ' s opposition be concern , the rationale for these action have not change since we undertake similar operation in government in the month lead up to the general election , with the support of the then opposition . we agree that this action be effectively an act of self - defence on behalf of ourselves and our close ally . with the main target for RAF Typhoons be a Houthi drone factory , we should remember that drone be use by the Houthis to target our own naval ship , such as the attempt drone attack on HMS Diamond in January last year . while HMS Diamond be able to take effective action in response on that occasion , we know that this capability can be produce in very large number and that the threat remain a clear and present danger . indeed , we understand that the US navy continue to be subject to Houthi aggression , include from drone . in our view , it be therefore entirely legitimate to support the defence of our close ally , the US , and to prevent future potential attack on our own fleet and international shipping by attack the Houthi drone threat at source . the Houthis ' action be not just a threat to ourselves and our ally ; as the Secretary of State say , they be illegal and completely counter to international humanitarian priority , give that their attack have imperille aid delivery to the yemeni people , while undermine a crucial shipping route for grain en route to some of the poor people in the world . the Government therefore have our full support for this late operation , and the opposition be grateful to the brave and highly skilled personnel of the Royal Air Force who conduct the mission , include the Typhoon crew and those support the air - to - air refuelling mission . in particular , we welcome their safe return and the completion of what appear to be a successful operation in degrade Houthi drone capability . the US have be undertake its own self - defence against Houthi attack , and we very much welcome the close work with US ally , as be the case when we be in government work with the previous Administration in the US . that underline the continuity of our most important strategic military partnership , and it be right that we work as closely as possible with the US to address threat to freedom of navigation . that be say , freedom of navigation be vital to the ship of many nation , not just the UK and the US . the whole world benefit from action take to keep international shipping flow , which support the wide economy . can the Secretary of State update we on what talk he have have with other ally , include NATO member , on provide direct military support against the Houthi threat in future ? after all , it be not only a threat to many other nation , but involve other hostile state , notably Iran , with its long - run support not just for the Houthis , but for Hezbollah , Hamas and other armed group in Iraq and elsewhere . how will the UK dock in to the approach be take by the new US Administration towards Iran ? the Secretary of State refer to russian involvement . can he confirm report that the Houthis have receive target assistance with potential ballistic missile attack from Russia ? do that not show why support Ukraine against Russia be about a much wide strategic picture that directly threaten the United Kingdom ? he also refer to the use of our military base , Diego Garcia , for regional security operation , but soon it will not be ours . do this kind of action not show why surrender its sovereignty be so reckless ? let I finally turn to the subject of the strategic defence review . it be very concern that the permanent secretary to the Ministry of Defence tell the Public Accounts Committee on Monday : " it be a strategic defence review that will need to be translate into a set of specific investment decision in individual capability and project . that will be work for later in the summer and into the autumn . " the Secretary of State know of the need for urgent procurement decision relate directly to the Houthi threat in the Red sea , not least on upgrade to the Sea Viper system , which we believe must be accelerate . he also know that procurement be largely on hold , await the publication of the SDR . he promise to publish it in the spring ; can he confirm that it will definitely be publish in May — which be the last month of spring — and , most importantly , can he confirm that in May we will see the full detail of all major individual procurement choice , so that the MOD can get on with they as a matter of the utmost urgency ? I welcome the tone and content of the hon . Gentleman ' s response to my statement . labour back the last government ' s strike against the Houthis and , as he point out , the rationale then be the same as the rationale now . that be a useful contribution to this discussion . the hon . Gentleman be right to say that the clear and present threat that the Houthis pose to all nation , include ours and our close ally , be also the same . when I be shadow Defence Secretary and respond to what be say by the last government , I do so as the hon . Gentleman have respond today , because this be big than politic . it be about freedom of navigation , it be about regional stability , and it be about that most important security relationship that the United Kingdom have with the United States . the hon . Gentleman ask I about specific capability . we be now able to plan to provide the good possible kit for our armed force , because of the historic commitment that the Prime Minister make to the House in February to raise the level of defence spending to 2 . 5 % — three year early than the date that be in the hon . Gentleman ' s own unfunded plan — and then to raise it to 3 % in the next Parliament . he ask about the capability on some of our naval ship . when I meet the crew of HMS Diamond in the autumn , they demonstrate to I , and describe to I in detail , just how exceptional their response to that multiple attack be , and just how effective the weaponry on the ship be at that time . we be upgrade those ship with a number of capability , include DragonFire . it be the hon . Gentleman who first talk about that , but we be instal it not on just one ship , as he propose , but on four ; we be instal it soon than he plan ; and we be fund it fully , which he have not do . the hon . Gentleman ask about discussion with other nation . the importance of regional stability , the Houthi threat and the freedom of navigation in the Red sea be discuss by Foreign Ministers at the G7 , and have be discuss by NATO Foreign Ministers in the last month . the very carrier strike group whose deployment the hon . Gentleman welcome last week be multinational by design . it be design to exercise together but also , together , to reassert some of the basic principle that last night ' s attack be design to support , such as the freedom of navigation of our sea . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . I be grateful to the Secretary of State for his statement and to the Minister for the Armed Forces for his in - person brief beforehand . I be glad that our brave service personnel who be involve in yesterday ' s strike have return home safely , and that the precision sovereign strike have destroy the drone factory with no civilian casualty . I agree with the Secretary of State that Houthi attack since 2023 have tragically kill innocent merchant mariner , lead to a shocking 55 % drop in shipping through the Red sea cost billion , fuel regional instability , and exacerbate the cost of living crisis here in the UK and across the globe . however , on the basis of current intelligence , how confident be he that follow yesterday ' s strike there will be freedom of navigation and that there will be no further loss of life because of the Houthis ? I be grateful for my hon . friend ' s support for the action that we take overnight . it be part of a sustained campaign — a US campaign that we be work alongside . there be no overnight solution to this , but accord to the evidence report by the US military about this new sustained , intensive campaign , it seem to be have an effect on the pace , the rate , and the threat that the Houthis pose . our action last night be design to reinforce that campaign , to support the push for regional stability , and to protect the domestic economy and protect against the impact of the disruption in international shipping and its effect on price for ordinary people . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Secretary of State for advance sight of his statement , and I thank the Minister for the Armed Forces for his briefing early today . the Houthis ' destabilising military campaign in the Red sea have have a chilling effect on trade through that vital waterway , threaten life while impose cost on british business and consumer . the Houthis can not be allow to act with impunity and hold the global economy to ransom by restrict freedom of navigation . it be important that their military capability be degrade to ensure that trade can flow freely , which be why the Liberal Democrats support the case for limited strike . we thank the service personnel involve for their bravery , and we be pleased that they have return home safely . however , it be vital that we fully understand the operational goal behind the mission , as well as the intelligence planning and co - ordination of the strike . can the Secretary of State explain to the House why the Government have choose this occasion to join US force in a joint strike , rather than do so on previous similar mission ? the recent leak from President Trump ' s Cabinet , also pertain to military action in Yemen against the Houthis , raise concern question about how secure US intelligence be and the possible impact on british service personnel . in the light of those leak , can the Secretary of State reassure we that intelligence - sharing with the US be completely secure , and can he tell we whether the Government have undertake an assessment of the security of our intelligence - share network with the US ? I be reassure to hear from he that the Government have no evidence of any loss of civilian life , but can he update the House on what step be take ahead of the mission in an effort to minimise civilian casualty ? before I respond to the hon . Lady , may I point out that I neglect to respond to the hon . member for South Suffolk ( James Cartlidge ) on the subject of the SDR ? when it be publish in the spring , all his question will be answer . I welcome the hon . Lady ' s recognition of the importance of degrade the military capability of the Houthis , and I welcome her support for the action that we take last night . I say to she with confidence and reassurance that our own UK intelligence and communication system remain secure . the hon . Lady ask , " why now ? " first , the decision and the action that we take be in line with long - establish policy , both UK policy and the United Nations charter . secondly , it be a reflection of the fact that , as I have report to the House , the US be step up and we , as a close ally , be alongside it in this action . thirdly , our purpose be to protect our economy at home , because most of the shipping in this busy of international sea route make a big detour that push up price and have a direct impact on not just our security interest but our economic interest in Britain . that be why we be act . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . the Houthis say that they be shell international shipping in order to help the Palestinians , but do my right hon . friend agree that by not just undermine international trade but cause a devastating decline in the use of the Suez canal and crash the number of cruise ship visit Aqaba , they be actually attack Egypt and Jordan — two country which could not be work hard for a future for the Palestinians , which could not be give more support , whether it be financial , political or diplomatic , and which provide a refuge for so many ? do he agree that if the Houthis really care about the Palestinians , they should simply stop this ? I totally agree with my hon . friend . Jordan and Egypt be do a lot of the heavy lifting in try to support the Palestinians , and it be notable that there be no evidence that the Houthis have provide any aid to the Palestinians in Gaza . the action that they be take , which be cause disruption and the intensification of insecurity in the region , be do absolutely nothing to help the Palestinians ' cause . I welcome this action and join the Defence Secretary in pay tribute to our exemplary armed force . it be essential that we tackle the tentacle of Iran through all its proxy — whether it be the Houthis , Hamas or Hezbollah — which do so much damage to Israel and the wide middle east , and not least to the people of Palestine . one fundamental question , as he will know from our discussion when I be Deputy Prime Minister , be about the long - term strategy to eliminate the threat of the Houthis to Red sea shipping . for the benefit of the House , will the Defence Secretary give some further indication of the new Government ' s think on the long - term strategy to address this threat ? I pay tribute to the right hon . gentleman for go out of his way when he be Deputy Prime Minister , as this Government be do now , to ensure that we be well brief on such strike . he be absolutely right to say that military action against the Houthis can take we only so far . the wide strategy must , therefore , involve the UK do what we can to work with ally , especially in the region : first , to constrain the Houthis , as our action overnight be design to do ; secondly , to bolster the strength , authority and capability of the yemeni Government , which be why the Under - Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs , my hon . friend the Member for Lincoln ( Mr Falconer ) , announce support early this year ; and thirdly , to pursue the importance of a negotiate settlement that give Yemen a peaceful way forward , while in the meantime not lose sight of our responsibility as a nation to support the yemeni people , who be suffer greatly . the right hon . Gentleman will welcome the fact that the Foreign Secretary announce in January an extra £ 5 million - worth of UK aid for Yemen , which bring the total over the previous 12 month to £ 144 million . the UK remain the third large donor to the yemeni humanitarian programme . I thank the Secretary of State for his statement , and echo his word about the courage and professionalism of our service personnel . it be good that everyone have return safely . have a strong and capable military be essential to ensure our economic security and freedom of trade . be that not why financial institution and pension fund should increase their investment in defence industry , and not listen to voice oppose to that ? quite right . my hon . friend will be interested to hear about the work that I and the Chancellor have commission together on the barrier in the UK that be hold back private source of investment in our defence and technology industry . an important part of the defence industrial strategy , which we will be able to publish before too long , will be about how we use the big commitment of this Government and this country to invest in defence and make our armed force fit for the future , and how we can use that to leverage much more investment from private sector source so that we can do more , more quickly . it be unusual for a terrorist group engage in a civil war to invite retaliation of this sort by attack international shipping so comprehensively . clearly , the Houthis be act as an agent of Iran . can the Secretary of State advise we what the Government know about the ability of Iran to keep fuel the attack in the Red sea ? now that the domestic ability to manufacture drone in Yemen have be degrade , how easy will it be for Iran to supply they directly to the Houthis ? the short answer be that we must do what we can with ally to make it as hard as possible for Iran to maintain both its financial support to the Houthis and its logistical , munition and military support and supply . we be work on that with ally and , as I say to the House early , the straight military action that we be conduct last night be part of the solution for the long term . it be not the whole solution . I thank my right hon . friend for his statement . we have have a long - stand relationship with the US , which be our close security ally . do he agree that our continued work on AUKUS will help to deepen and strengthen that for all the nation involve ? it will indeed . the AUKUS programme be a good example of how big defence commitment provide not just long - term deterrent commitment to our own security and that of our ally but an important economic boost , show how defence can be a driver of economic growth . my hon . friend , who have the privilege of represent the town of Barrow and its royal shipyard , will know well than anyone how important that combination be . it be hardwire into the approach that this Government take . the brutal oppression of the Palestinians in Gaza will not be help one iota by the bombing of merchant shipping and drone strike against the merchant marine , so we be supportive of the action that have be take . it seem to be an operation that have the appearance of something which may endure into a more strategic affair . do the Secretary of State agree that , notwithstanding the general consensus in the Chamber on the action that be take , a broad debate in Parliament would be desirable — not to discuss operational imperative , plan or anything of that nature , but to far reinforce the will of the House ? while he celebrate the action of aircrew , will he far acknowledge that the aircrew would not be able to do their tremendous work if it be not for all the other trade that keep they mobilise ? well say . the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right to say that stand behind our armed force and the ultimate professionalism that they display be a large cadre of civilian and military personnel who make operation successful and possible . he would be wrong to say that this be a sustained campaign . this be the first UK strike on Houthi position since May last year , and Parliament will be keep inform in the event of any future military intervention like this . freedom of navigation in the Red sea and the gulf of Aden be essential to the global economic system , and anything that impinge on it impact the global economy , increase the cost to the environment and impact the poor people in the world . it be for this reason that I be proud to be the former commander of the expeditionary air wing whose Typhoons and Voyagers be launch last night to carry out these strike . do the Defence Secretary agree that this action form part of the join - up international strategy to end the attack and defend freedom of navigation ? I do indeed . it be part of a long - term programme to degrade the ability of the Houthis to hit international shipping , to defend and protect freedom of navigation , and to recognise that conflict in the middle east have a big impact on business and prosperity in this country . the british Chambers of Commerce recently publish a survey that say 50 % of business in Britain report that they have now be impact by conflict in the middle east . I draw attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , and congratulate all involve on a very successful joint operation . matter like this be likely to attract retaliation from Iran and its proxy . what be be do to support our ally in the region against possible attack ? as Carrier Strike Group 25 prepare to transit and exercise in the region on Operation Highmast , will he assure the House — without go into specific — that all be be do to protect our man and woman ? the right hon . Gentleman , who I think serve as a Defence Minister under two Administrations , will know that Defence Ministers and Secretaries , include I , give the high priority to our force ' protection . my hon . friend the Armed Forces Minister and I go over that matter in detail with military planner and chief before the carrier group set sail , and I be brief on that again when the Prime Minister and I visit the carrier last week . in general term , the operation last night be design to prevent further escalation . it be design to prevent furth Houthi attack by take out the major weapon manufacturing site that we strike last night . I thank my right hon . friend for his statement , and I pay tribute to the courage and professionalism of all our service personnel who be involve in this successful operation . do he agree that the whole House should stand together against the Houthi attack , which challenge freedom of navigation and , if leave unaddresse , could lead to a devastating rise in the cost of essential food item not just for my constituent but across the UK and in other country ? my hon . friend put the argument very well . this be a matter of freedom of navigation and a matter of international law , but it be also a matter of economic self - interest for Britain , because the price for the disruption to world shipping on this essential trade route through the Red sea be pay by ordinary people in the food and good they depend on . that be in part why we take this action last night . I , too , pay tribute to the professionalism of our armed force , and I be thankful for their safe return . be the Secretary of State confident about the appropriate security for our military personnel , give that the previous leak from the Trump Administration on Signal give detail of such attack before they happen , and what reassurance have he have from the United States on that ? I be confident . we handle secure communication in secure way , and we do that consistently here in the UK . I join my right hon . friend in pay tribute to the armed force personnel who take part in last night ' s action . the fact that it be the UK that be support the USA in this action really do emphasise our close relationship . however , this morning ' s newspaper suggest that our desire to do a trade deal with America have be push back to a second tranche of country , or maybe even a third . do he share my disappointment at that decision , and would he ask the Trump Administration to return to that issue and to consider our close relationship in defence and intelligence ? I gently urge my hon . friend not necessarily to believe everything he read in the newspaper . he be very experienced and have a very good insight into the political world . just to reassure he , we be pull out all the stop behind the scene to try to settle a trade deal with the US , just as we be to reinforce the special depth of the relationship on security and defence matter between the UK and the US . I very much welcome the statement and the action , which I fully support , and I be very pleased to hear of the level of engagement by the US . the Secretary of State will recall that the humanitarian situation in Yemen be the subject of frequent debate and discussion during the previous Parliament , but it appear to have fall off the agenda , partly because of atrocious conflict elsewhere . I be pleased to hear what he say about the fcdo ' s approach , but as the fcdo have more constrain resource , will he ensure that the humanitarian situation in Yemen remain a priority ? I be confident that my right hon . friend the Foreign Secretary have that in mind . he will be conscious , as be the right hon . Gentleman , that the UK act not just as the third - large donor to the Yemen humanitarian programme , but as the penholder for Yemen at the United Nations . I thank my right hon . friend for his statement and associate myself with his word about our brave military personnel . do he agree that we must reiterate how the Houthi attack be illegal , be against the UN charter and target the principle of freedom of navigation , which benefit all nation , include our ally in the region ? do he also agree that our action show that work in concert with our ally internationally can improve regional stability and security , and indeed our security here at home ? I do indeed agree with my hon . friend . this be a matter of reinforce regional stability and a matter of defend and protect freedom of navigation , but it be also a matter of protect our own economic interest back home , and I make no apology for stand up for british interest and those of our ally . we in Reform fully endorse the Government ' s action against the Houthis , and we thank our brave and brilliant military personnel . the Secretary of State refer to the continue support of the Houthis by Iran , so will he update the House on further sanction against Iran ? surely now be the time to proscribe the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps as a terrorist organisation ? the hon . Gentleman have be around long enough to know that I will not comment on the process of proscription . suffice it to say , the Government have sanction a number of major Houthi leader . I welcome his welcome for the action we take last night , and I hope he will take that action as a sign of a determination to do what we can , alongside our US ally , to degrade their ability to continue to threaten freedom of navigation for international shipping . the Houthis be act freely in the absence of a road map for peace . Yemen be face the bad humanitarian crisis , with 22 million people need assistance , of whom 11 million be child , and in desperate need of food , water and medical supply . to defeat the Houthis permanently , will the Secretary of State give a commitment that this Government , along with ally , will do all that be possible to deliver a road map for peace and ensure that this happen now , because otherwise it will be a lost opportunity ? as I say early , my responsibility as Defence Secretary be for the military component of the wide approach that must be pursue if we be to help play an important role in secure peace and a settlement to end the civil war in Yemen , and to provide relief to the hundred of thousand of Yemenis who be suffer so severely . constrain the Houthi threat be part of that , as be reinforce and bolster the yemeni Government , but work with ally , particularly the lead regional ally , in try to force the pace of a negotiate settlement and a peace in Yemen be absolutely crucial . I welcome the Defence Secretary ' s statement , and I add my thank to , and appreciation for , the Royal Air Force and all those involve in this successful operation . in his statement he say that " even Russia have attempt to support the Houthi operation . " however , do it not go a little bit deep than that ? the Wall Street Journal have report that target datum provide by Russia have be utilise by the Houthis for their attack against western shipping , while Iran have arbitrate secret talk between the terror group and the Kremlin . what step be he take to disrupt Russia ' s deepen tie to Iran and its proxy across the middle east ? I be really not go to disclose in public , or even to this House , the step that we be take to deal with some of that covert russian activity , which go well beyond Yemen to the wide middle east . suffice it to say , the hon . Member have make a contribution to the discussion on this statement by bring that report from the Wall Street Journal to the House . I add my word of support for the action the UK take last night . the Houthi group be a terrorist organisation that have be deeply destabilising and it be right that we be play our role in protect freedom of navigation . the Halesowen community of Yemenis be really concerned about the desperate humanitarian situation in Yemen . could the Secretary of State add a few more word on what we be do to support Yemenis who be so desperate right now , and what we be do to end the civil war ? yes . I mention the in - year uplift that the Foreign Secretary give to our contribution to the yemeni humanitarian assistance plan , which make we the third - large donor . our focus on aid have be especially on food , of which there be a critical shortage and which be a necessity to hundred of thousand of Yemenis . we calculate that we will have help almost 900 , 000 Yemenis with our food support this year . our support be also in healthcare , support over 700 medical centre across the country with medicine , vaccine and some of the basic equipment need to provide the healthcare that people also so desperately need in that country . I share the recognition of the RAF ' s role in last night ' s operation . give the exist global commitment of our Typhoon squadron , should the coalition of the willing provide a military contribution to any post - war force in Ukraine , and therefore a combat air patrol or air police role in Ukraine , in addition to the Baltic and the high north , how will we continue to facilitate direct action , such as the strike against the Iranian - back Houthis in Yemen , with no plan to purchase a second tranche of F - 35bs ? on Ukraine and a potential role in a coalition of the willing on security guarantee — if a negotiate peace settlement , which we all hope President Trump secure , can be put in place — we be plan at the moment . the consequence of any commitment we make will be fully explain to the House if a decision be make , but that be contingent on a ceasefire and a peace agreement , and that be contingent principally upon Putin do what he say he want by seek an end to the fighting . I thank the Defence Secretary for his statement and pay tribute to all those involve in the successful strike . do he agree that this Government will always put personnel at the heart of our defence plan ? for too long , I believe , the previous Government overlook that . they certainly fail to meet their recruitment test . I be proud to be a Defence Secretary in a Labour Government who be able , last year , to give armed force personnel the large pay increase for 20 year , and to be the first Defence Secretary who can stand at the Dispatch Box and say that nobody in uniform will be pay less now than the national living wage . I be also proud to have manage to do a deal to buy back and bring into public control 36 , 000 family military home , follow what be quite the bad privatisation ever , in 1996 under the previous Tory Government . in reply to an early question , the Secretary of State talk about the devastation in Yemen , with 11 million people in desperate need of help and support , and the civil war condition that pertain there . on the armed intervention that Britain make yesterday , we all need to know where it will lead , what the end game be , whether we be involve in an internal war in Yemen , and what the long - term implication of our involvement be . ultimately , there have to be some kind of peace process in Yemen , just as much as there have to be in Gaza and elsewhere in the region . do this action bring peace nearer , or do it exacerbate the danger of a widen conflict ? the right hon . Gentleman be right to remind the House of the extreme hardship face by many Yemenis in what have be a war - tear country for year . the strike last night be design to reduce and prevent the risk of further Houthi attack , and they be do because we be able to take out an important facility where the Houthis have be manufacture the very weapon use to target international shipping and our own . I welcome the Defence Secretary ' s statement and add my thank to our service personnel for their action . I would like to talk about what the Houthis have be do alongside the other terrorist proxy in the middle east , Hamas and Hezbollah , who be control by Iran . therefore , what be this country ' s policy on disrupt and contain that network , and attack the heart of it — namely , Iran itself ? my hon . friend be right . Iran be a destabilising influence across the region , not just in its own term but in particular in the way it have develop , sponsor and supply proxy group . the Houthis be clearly supply and support by Iran . part of the long - term ability to see a secure and conflict - free middle east have get to be a reconciliation that Iran have : for it to stop use those proxy to threaten its neighbour in the region and the interest of country such as ours . US action in recent week have considerably degrade ballistic missile and drone attack , and I welcome these RAF strike . however , the action will work only if it be sustain . will the Defence Secretary commit to ongoing UK and RAF direct support to US Operation Rough Rider to strike Houthi terrorist , rather than the ad hoc approach adopt so far , so that we can properly restore freedom of navigation ? operation Rough Rider be a US military campaign . we take action last night alongside the US . any future military intervention such as last night ' s will be report to the House . I thank the Secretary of State for his statement . I pay tribute to all our armed force personnel involve in the action overnight . do he agree with I that the USA have always be , and will remain , our strong and most steadfast security ally ? I do indeed . the US - UK defence relationship have a special depth that have last decade . we do thing together as two nation that no other nation do : we train together , we exercise together and at time we have to fight together . I be relieve to hear that the strategic defence review be come in the spring — with a great yellow ball in the sky , I assume that will be fairly soon . in all military operation time be the enemy , and I be concern about report that the SDR may only be a broadbrush document — an interim document , as it be — and that the important decision on specific capability and weapon system may not be take until autumn . be we march on to war ? if so , should we not be do so at the double , rather than at a slow march ? the hon . Gentleman have manage to broaden his question from this specific statement on the overnight strike . the strategic defence review be a strategic defence review . it will be publish in the spring . it have be an unprecedented and externally lead process , which have allow to we to take stock of the threat we face and the capability we need , and to do so within the unprecedented increase in defence funding that this Government have now commit to over the next 10 year . in his statement , the Secretary of State refer to russian attempt to support Houthi operation . without compromise any information that he be unable to share , how would he rate the effectiveness of those russian intervention , as well as the UK response ? do he agree that they show that we must continue to support Ukraine in every way we can to undermine the dictator Vladimir Putin ? it do indeed , Mr Speaker . my hon . friend have be steadfast from the Back Benches as a strong voice for Ukraine , and I welcome his support for the action the UK Government have offer , and for our leadership . on the effectiveness of russian action and intervention in Yemen , I be more concerned to ensure that any military action that this Government sanction be effective , and that the outstanding military personnel who be involve return safely . I be happy to report to the House that that be the case last night . on 17 March , I ask the Foreign Secretary why the UK have take a kinetic role in strike against the Houthis under the previous US Government , but have not take an active role in those carry out by this US Government . we have since see those leak Signal message in which the US Secretary of Defence , Pete Hegseth , lament the lack of european involvement in the strike on 15 March . how much have the involvement of british jet in these strike come as a response to the allegation by Pete Hegseth of european freeloading ? the strike that we conduct last night be a result of the fact that America , our close ally , have be come under near daily attack from the Houthis ; that shipping have more than halve through that Red sea route ; and that 50 % of UK business now say that they have be impact by conflict in the middle east . I make no apology for defend Britain ' s interest , and the interest of our ally . I thank the Secretary of State for his answer , and for give we the comprehensive information that we need . I congratulate our armed force and our ally on a successful strike against this facility — long may those target and successful operation continue . what further step will be take with our NATO ally — quite simply , we can not do this without they ; we need they — to secure the Red sea and the gulf of Aden , and thereby low shipping cost and consumer cost for all those who be pay the price for the evil action of the Houthis ? the hon . Gentleman be right to say this be big and more important than just UK or even US action . I report to the House early that the broad challenge that he set out be discuss by NATO Foreign Ministers , and have be discuss by Foreign Ministers at the G7 within the last month . Energy Grid Resilience with permission , Mr Speaker , I will make a statement on the resilience of the UK ' s energy grid in the context of the widespread power outage experience across the iberian peninsula over the past two day . my thought be with all those affect by the widespread disruption across that peninsula on Monday . I be glad to hear that power have now be fully restore across the region . I want to reassure the House that Great Britain have a highly resilient energy network , and that the incident in Iberia have not impact Great Britain . the Secretary of State have be in regular contact with the National Energy System Operator over the past two day , and it have provide reassurance that there be no increase in risk to our energy supply or system stability from this incident . my Department be inform on Monday 28 April by NESO that a power outage have occur across the iberian peninsula , affect mainland Spain , Portugal , Andorra and area of France . while all power be restore to the impact area yesterday , Tuesday 29 April , the disruption have cascade impact on other sector across the vast majority of Spain and Portugal . the cause of the outage be yet to be confirm ; it be likely to take some time for the spanish network operator to carry out a thorough investigation to determine the exact cause of the failure . various independent review have be commission by Spain , Portugal and the European Commission to understand the cause . although GB be not directly connect to Spain and Portugal ' s grid , NESO be in close contact with european counterpart , and be offer support where need . the Government be closely monitor the situation and be in contact with the spanish and portuguese authority to ensure the safety and wellbeing of any british national in the affected region . I turn to our grid ' s resilience , and our preparedness in the context of recent event on the iberian peninsula . an event similar in impact in Great Britain would be equivalent to a national power outage — a total loss of power across the whole of GB — which be list on the national risk register as a high - impact but low - likelihood event . in its 75 - year history , Great Britain ' s national electricity transmission system have never experience a complete shutdown , or anything on the scale of what have happen in Spain over the past few day . our electricity system be highly resilient . the National Energy System Operator continuously monitor the condition of the electricity system to ensure there be sufficient inertia and reserve in the system to manage large loss and prevent large - scale power outage . NESO have also introduce innovative new approach to manage system stability , as well as advanced safety system to help to prevent such event from happen in GB . the system be build , design and operate to cope with the loss of key circuit or system without cause customer impact . there be multiple redundant alternative route through which power can flow should a fault occur , minimise the risk of a single fault cascade across the entire system to cause a total or partial electricity system shutdown . however , as a responsible government , we prepare for all eventuality , no matter how unlikely . I would like to reassure the House that the Government work closely with industry to continually improve and maintain the resilience of energy infrastructure , network and asset to reduce vulnerability . this work include have robust emergency plan , summarise in the national emergency plan for downstream gas and electricity , and regularly exercise emergency plan with the energy industry and Ofgem . that include an exercise carry out by the previous Government ; we have be take forward the recommendation from that exercise . this work be ongoing across Government to ensure we be as resilient as possible as a nation in all eventuality . we have also empower the independent National Energy System Operator to carry out resilience function across the electricity and gas system , and will continue to work with industry and regulator to improve and maintain the resilience of old , new and future energy infrastructure . switch fossil - fuel generation for home - grow clean energy from renewable , nuclear and other clean technology be the route to long - term energy security . I will speak more broadly about the UK ' s energy resilience in a debate in Westminster Hall on Tuesday . to conclude , Great Britain have a resilient energy network , and we will ensure that that continue to be the case . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Minister . I thank the Minister for advance sight of his statement , and echo his comment ; of course , the Conservatives ’ thought be with all those affect by the blackout in Spain , Portugal and more widely . the Minister rightly address concern about the security of our grid in the context of the shutdown witness on the iberian peninsula , and I be glad that he can confirm that he be carry on implement the recommendation from Exercise Mighty Oak , in which I be involve , on the action that would be require if such an event take place in GB . the primary responsibility of the Minister ' s Department be to keep the light on in this country . the image from Spain and Portugal be a sombre reminder of what happen when the grid fail . extended blackout be devastating , and it be a relief that power be restore to 99 % of customer by 6 o ' clock yesterday morning . the grid collapse in Iberia have demonstrate the fragility of the complex , interconnect system that support modern life , and the very real impact on human life of such a collapse . it be the Minister ' s responsibility to ensure that the same thing do not happen in Great Britain , as the price for our economy and for community across this country would be catastrophic . we can not get away from the fact that this Government ' s plan to rush ahead to build a grid that be entirely dependent on the wind and the sun in just five year ' time will make our electricity grid significantly less reliable . the stability of our electricity grid depend on what be call inertia , which be the ability for the system to resist destabilising fluctuation in frequency . it be the reason our grid have be so secure and resilient over the decade the Minister reference . this inertia be provide by turbine , like those find in nuclear , hydro or , crucially , gas power station , but it be not provide by solar or wind farm . if the grid do not have enough inertia to resist sudden change in frequency , it can become destabilised , and cascade grid failure can occur . that mean blackout . as the spanish NESO say in its late annual report , the closure of conventional generation plant , such as coal , gas and nuclear , have reduce the firm power and balance capacity of its grid , as well as its strength and inertia . this have also happen here in Great Britain . datum from NESO show that the inertia in our grid have be steadily decrease over time , as gas and coal have come off the system , to be replace by wind and solar . this come with a hefty price tag , which be the problem with so much of the Labour Government ' s approach to energy security . their imposed target be saddle the british people with mountain of extra cost , as the Government rush ahead towards a power system that depend on the weather , rather than on firm , reliable baseload . ten of billion of pound be spend subsidise wind farm , expand the grid , and provide back - up from reliable gas plant . the Government set their 2030 target , and now they be try to work out how they can achieve it , but they refuse to be honest with the british people . they refuse to do an open and honest assessment of the cost and risk that come with this approach . it be no wonder that even Tony Blair have say that the present policy solution be inadequate and doom to fail . the Conservatives believe in a system that deliver secure , affordable and clean energy for the UK . a cyber - attack have be rule out by the Spanish Government as a cause of their grid collapse , but we know that the threat of interference from hostile state be constant . will the Minister update the House on the action he be take to protect the grid from hostile activity ? when will he finally tell we which single Minister be responsible for the safety and security of our offshore energy infrastructure ? the lesson from the incident on the Iberian Peninsula be abundantly clear . we must retain inertia in our grid to keep it stable and resilient . nuclear power provide vital baseload power generation , along with inertia , which would have help to mitigate a cascade failure like the one early this week . will the Minister give the nuclear industry the certainty that it be ask for , and commit to 24 GW of nuclear power , as the previous Government do ? will he ask NESO to provide this House with a full , transparent update on the role of inertia in our power system , on the consequence of decline inertia , on the impact that have on grid stability , and on the cost associate with it ? finally , the Minister have say that Great Britain have never experience a complete shutdown such as that see on the continent . what assurance can he offer this House that work be be undertake , so that NESO and the National Grid be prepare for a black start , if ever that be need ? I shall start with the more serious of the hon . Gentleman ' s question , and then , in reply to some of his other question , I might gently remind he who be in office not that long ago . on a serious note , I agree entirely with he on his opening point : the first priority of my Department and the Government be to ensure our energy security . the past few day in Spain and Portugal have bring to light just how much of our day - to - day life be dependent on a function electricity system , so he be right to make that point , and we be very aware of it . I be surprised that the hon . Gentleman do not recognise the work that the previous Government do on build the renewable system , and on introduce inertia into the system , because that all start a number of year ago . we have a resilient grid in this country , and it be important to continue to have that . that mean build new grid infrastructure , which he and a number of his colleague quite often oppose . it be important to build that grid infrastructure and to invest in it . we will continue to work with NESO and other to understand the full cause of this outage . I will not be draw into speculation on what may have cause it , because clearly the first priority of the spanish and portuguese government have be restore power , but they will carry out investigation to find out the cause , and we will implement any lesson from that . finally , the hon . Gentleman be right to reflect on Operation Mighty Oak , which be carry out under the previous Government . we have be take forward those recommendation right across government . my right hon . friend the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster be look at resilience across Government . these be all important point . however , I say gently that energy security be an absolute priority for this Government , which mean build the energy infrastructure that this country need , and not oppose it at every turn . I call the Chair of the Energy Security and Net Zero Committee . there be some inconvenient truth for those on the Opposition Benches who wish to blame low - carbon energy for what happen in Spain and Portugal . as the Minister have say , the cause of the outage be unknown at this stage . in 2003 , when there be a blackout in Switzerland and Italy , and in 2006 , when the same happen in Germany , affect the whole of the continent , there be no renewable in the system . that go to show that it be far too early to speculate . gas set the price for our electricity 98 % of the time in this country . those who oppose the transition to low - carbon energy generation be oppose energy security for this country . they be oppose low price for our constituent and good , well - pay job . that be what this agenda be really about . I thank the Chair of the Energy Security and Net Zero Committee for his question . let I reiterate the point that he make and that I will , I suspect , make a number of time during this statement . I will not be draw on unfounded claim and speculation about what the cause might be . it be rightly for the authority in Spain and Portugal to carry out the investigation , exactly as it would be if any incident happen here , and for they to share that information . of course we will be in close contact with they about that , but it be far too early to make any hasty conclusion , particularly when they be base on unfounded claim . the broad point that my hon . friend make be right : constituent right across the country continue to pay too much for their electricity . that be because of the role of gas in set the price in our system . the more renewable that we build , the more that we push gas off as the marginal price setter , the more that we bring those bill down , and also the more that we make sure that they be not subject to the volatility of the fossil fuel market as they be at the moment . my hon . friend be right : this be the right journey for we to be on ; it be right for the british economy ; and it be right for energy security . the opposition party should support that . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Minister for advance sight of his statement . our thought be with all those affect by these power outage , which be a stark reminder of how key our energy security be to our national security . that be why it be vital that the Government learn from this late incident by act now to boost our home - grow energy by support community - own project and increase supply chain capacity . our constituent will be concern to know about preparation in this country . what conversation have the Minister have across Government to ensure that the UK have robust plan in place in the event of similar situation occur here ? in particular , can he outline what contingency plan be in place to protect our transport network , our hospital and urgent healthcare setting and our emergency communication capacity ? the latter currently rely heavily on the mobile network for our emergency alert system , as well as be the primary way that most people stay up to date . let I repeat the point that I make to the shadow Minister . it be absolutely right to point out the widespread cascade impact of power failure and just the sheer amount of our life that be now drive by electricity . the hon . Lady also make the same point as the shadow Minister , which I do not respond to at the time , around preparation across Government . I be Minister in the Department responsible for energy resilience and security . the Secretary of State take a very serious interest in this area . right across Government , we have a number of meeting that be chair by the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster , who have responsibility for resilience , which include look at specific impact . most recently , we discuss some of the communication impact of power cut cause by storm , to make sure that people can still communicate , particularly via the mobile phone network . these be important point that we be take forward . clearly , the energy system in this country be resilient , but the job of Government be to prepare for all eventuality , however low the chance . we take very seriously not just the preparation in place , but make sure that government be ready to try out some of these process and to learn from experience such as this . there will be thing that we can learn from the spanish and portuguese government , and we stand ready to do that . SAE Renewables be establish a new battery storage facility , repurpose an old coal - fire power station in Newport , which , when complete , will have the capacity to be one of the big in the UK . as we scale up our renewable energy prediction , battery storage facility such as this be vital . will the Minister come and see this for himself and say a bit more about what he be do with battery energy storage company to support their work ? storage will be crucial in the clean - power system that we be build . battery will play a critical role in make sure that we can store the clean , cheap energy that we be generate for time when we need it most . we have also announce the first long - duration energy storage in 40 year , build the asset that will allow we to store eight hour of power for when it be need most . therefore , storage be key in a system such as this . and finally , I be always happy to visit my hon . friend ' s constituency . I call Harriet Cross — and congratulation on your remarkable London marathon time . hear , hear ! thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker — I think we can all stop that now . Centrica operate the rough gas storage site , which provide about half of the UK ' s current gas storage capacity . Centrica stand ready to invest £ 2 billion of its own capital to redevelop Rough into the large long - duration energy storage facility in Europe , capable of store both natural gas and hydrogen , which would improve resilience and protect customer from price spike . to unlock this £ 2 billion , the company need assurance and clarity from the Government , not least over regulatory support and a workable cap and floor mechanism . will the Minister set out what progress have be make in discussion with Centrica to develop this cap and floor mechanism ? give that the Government can make decision quickly when they choose to , as we see with British Steel , why have a decision on this mechanism be allow to drag on for month ? I congratulate the hon . Lady yesterday on her remarkable marathon ; I think she run it two hour fast than I do , which leave considerable room for improvement on my part , but congratulation to she again . she be right to raise this point , and I have answer question on it before . I have meet Centrica on several occasion to discuss various thing , include that proposal , but it be a commercial matter for Centrica to bring the proposal to we . the rough storage facility , which we last talk about in this House a few month ago , be mothball for a number of year under the previous Government . we be look in the round at the role it could play in energy security and at the value - for - money argument . we want to ensure that value for money for the public be protect alongside the security of energy . my issue with the hon . member for Gordon and Buchan ( Harriet Cross ) be that she have knock I off my place as the second - fast woman MP marathon runner — but I will be back . while thousand of airline passenger be impact by Monday ' s outage across Spain and Portugal , only 500 flight be ground out of a possible 6 , 000 , the rest manage to fly . that be because there be no airport closure . be there a lesson here for UK airport ? my hon . friend be perhaps refer to the most recent situation at Heathrow . the Secretary of State commission a report after that incident to find out what the cause be , and that report be due . airport in this country be private business , but give that they be clearly critical national infrastructure , the Government have a role in ensure that they function . if there be any lesson we can learn , it will be invaluable for we to learn they , but I do not want to be draw on the conclusion of a report that the Government have not yet see . just before the spanish blackout we have two unexpected outage — one in Lincolnshire and one at the other end of the Viking Link . the NESO be not go to tell we about it , but thank to a whistleblower we now know . it seem to I that with the ever - increase reliance on renewable , many be concern about fluctuation from the voltage and about that become a serious risk . while the Minister be confident about the situation , will he confirm to the House that the NESO will tell we and be completely transparent about all future unexpected outage ? while Great Britain ' s energy network be incredibly resilient and robust , there be outage for a whole range of reason . the system continue to function , as it do entirely , without any concern at all , in the instance he raise . while it be not a regular occurrence , outage do happen in any system , particularly in the energy system across the whole of the UK . I will take away the point about whether there can be more transparency , but I suspect that the answer will be that this be the day - to - day operational running of the electricity system , and it be not something to be alarmed about at all . I welcome the Minister ' s statement and the measured way in which he have approach the situation . as he and other Members have say , these kind of blackout happen , whether system be dominate by fossil fuel or renewable . I particularly welcome the Minister ' s rejection of the approach of some Opposition Members , include the honourable Inspector Clouseau , the hon . member for Boston and Skegness ( Richard Tice ) , who have already jump to blame renewable . be it not the case that some on the Opposition Benches want to weaponise this situation because of their ideological obsession against clean energy , which will leave my constituent cold and poor while they enjoy the warm embrace of Vladimir Putin ? my hon . friend always make his point in his particular style — perhaps a more political style than I will use from this Dispatch Box , but Inspector Clouseau be a new one that I will certainly add to my list . my hon . friend raise an important point . the broad point here be that we do not know the cause of the outage , and any sensible Member of this House will , I be sure , await the full response of any investigation that will be carry out by the relevant authority in this case , rather than just jump to speculation . as my hon . Friend say , the rush to conclusion betray the truth of the matter , which be that many hon . member in this place have an ideological , extreme and damaging opposition to clean energy . that include Members in the party of the hon . member for Boston and Skegness ( Richard Tice ) and other party , include the Conservatives , who defend this for such a long time and now seem to be work together against it . they want to leave we cold , poorer and in the pocket of Putin . we will not accept that . can the Minister please explain what exactly the Government disagree with in the consider write foreword by Sir Tony Blair to his think - tank report ? I have to apologise to the former Prime Minister , but I have be a little busy over the last few day and have not read all of his report . not even the foreword ! indeed . I apologise and will prioritise it for my weekend reading . what I do see be that the Tony Blair Institute outline very clearly its support for clean power as an important transition for this country . the shadow Minister early say that this be all about wind and solar , but that have never be the position for this transition . Nuclear will play a critical role , as will carbon capture , usage and storage as well as hydrogen . all of that be outline in Tony Blair ' s report . I thank the Minister for his comprehensive statement , particularly his comment on the importance of battery . he be right that energy security be national security . technology own by , run by and base in foreign state be be add to the grid . this technology be smart and , very worryingly , can be operate by third party . can the Minister set out what we be do to protect the grid from the influence of those who wish to do harm to our people and our way of life in Newcastle - under - Lyme and up and down the United Kingdom ? my hon . friend raise an important point . the issue of cyber - security across our critical national infrastructure become more and more important day by day . as our energy system become more complex and as smart system become part of how we all interact with our daily life , there be increase risk . that be why the Government take cyber - security very seriously and be look across Government at how we can have process in place that be as robust as possible . we do not for a second think that any of the action we have take will always be enough . we be constantly look at how cyber - security develop and change and how we can do more . but our energy system be resilient . Ofgem have a role to play in make sure that supplier and individual electricity company , as well as Government , take this issue very seriously , and it be an issue that I will continue to spend time focus on . the Minister will be aware that peterhead gas station be Scotland ' s only high - power , high - inertia facility and that it have an independent black - start facility . key to the future of that site be the Acorn project , another thing he will be very familiar with . can he confirm his government ' s intention to fully fund and license that project as a track 2 project as part of the comprehensive spending review in June ? the right hon . member for Dumfriesshire , Clydesdale and Tweeddale ( David Mundell ) make a point yesterday about black start , and it be one that the Secretary of State will take away , particularly around black - start capability across the whole UK . on the Acorn point , we have say on a number of occasion that it be a really important project . my Department and the Government support the project , but it be a question for the spending review , which will come in June . energy resilience come from a secure supply of clean and cheap energy . the major cause of the financial crisis that the world have experience over the last 40 year be the insecurity of supply of the fossil fuel market , with Ukraine be just the late case . as for cheap , the last government in answer to a parliamentary question admit that the levelise cost of gas be £ 114 per megawatt - hour , whereas offshore wind be £ 44 per megawatt - hour . as for clean , the House may be aware that wind and solar be not know as great emitter of greenhouse gas . so renewable be clean , cheap and secure . renewable and resilience go together . my hon . friend have be a champion of these issue for a long time , and it will not surprise he or the House to hear that I entirely agree with he ; clean , cheap and secure be absolutely right . we know that because when we invite many country around the world to the energy security summit last week , it be clear that it be not just the UK that be on the transition . the rest of the world be also move at pace to divest from fossil fuel and invest in the renewable that deliver the secure energy system and remove the volatility that all our constituent continue to pay the price for . it be the only way forward , and the Government be determined to continue with it . the Minister be fully aware of my total opposition to the construction of a 90 - foot - high converter station on the Minster marsh in east Kent . National Grid ' s sea link project be very vulnerable to physical attack and cyber - attack , and it be largely base on the provision of power from weather - relate source . be it not time that we revisit all this and look seriously at speed up the process of acquire small nuclear reactor ? I be happy to agree with the right hon . member on his final point . small modular reactor will play a really important part and be an exciting proposition that the UK can be at the forefront of . the technology competition will conclude shortly . on the broad point , we get to the heart of the contradiction . the conservative party want to talk about resilience of the network but do not want to build any new network infrastructure . I be afraid that the two go hand in hand . if we want to have power and a resilient network , we can not stay in the same place we be 60 year ago . we actually have to build some stuff . I thank the Minister for give the statement and congratulate he on the Floor of the House for complete the London marathon on Sunday . do he share not just my utter disappointment but my concern that Conservative Members have waste no time at all use the unfortunate event affect our friend in Spain and Portugal to further their dated opposition to clean power , which risk panic and misinformation at a time when we need patience and clear head ? I thank my hon . friend for that question and for draw attention to my appalling time in the marathon . [ interruption . ] that be kind of the shadow Secretary of State . my hon . Friend make an important point . the serious response to an unprecedented incident like this be to take stock of what happen , to introduce some fact into the debate — some people do not like to see fact in these debate — to allow a proper investigation to find out what cause it and , yes , to learn lesson from it . there will be lesson to learn , but I will not rush headlong into an ideological argument that damage our energy security by suggest that somehow we should go back to the past and then everything will be fine . the clean energy transition be right for climate , right for job in the supply chain , right for bring down bill and right for this country . I welcome what the Minister have outline and his reassurance about resilience , particularly to a cyber - attack . however , there be also the danger that if we hand over the on / off switch for vital energy supply to a foreign country , they can be switch off without our control . what mitigation be the Government consider for project like the vast wind farm in the North sea for which the chinese company Mingyang want to provide the hardware ? I will not be draw on an individual commercial arrangement that a project may or may not have . as I have outline , in any investment case the Government will carry out a number of check , one of which will always be a national security check , so these question will be look at . I reject the suggestion that there would somehow be an on / off switch — that be not the position that the Government would take — but we look at all these investment decision individually , and that be not for I to do on the Floor of the House . the role of business regard the grid be important . GE Vernova in my constituency make rotate stabiliser , from which my hon . friend the Minister and I probably could have benefit on Sunday while we be run the London marathon . the shadow Secretary of State and the hon . member for Gordon and Buchan ( Harriet Cross ) clearly do not need they ; I congratulate they on their superb , very fast time — much quick than my hon . friend and I . rotate stabiliser be enormous electrical motor that be be deploy around the UK , as part of National Grid ' s pathfinder programme , to strengthen vulnerable area of the grid . GE Vernova tell I that one be operate in Scotland now and have prove that it can prevent more serious grid disturbance , and the company have other project to deliver the stabiliser across the UK . the Government be invest more than ever in grid upgrade and infrastructure , which be good for the country and good for the economy , and it affect place like Rugby , where we build vital part , with a knock - on effect on the local supply chain , on skill development and so on . this be a really good thing that should be celebrate . I thank my hon . friend for the question . he raise what we be do to deploy technology in the clean power system to make it more resilient , and rotate stabiliser in particular . those technology be introduce in some case by the previous Government , so there be recognition of their importance and we will continue to build on that . my hon . Friend also raise the wide point that the transition to build a clean power system be about not just the generation we get out , but the good , well - pay job in the supply chain that deliver it and invest in industry right across the country , include in his constituency . we have commit to drive that forward . that be why the Prime Minister announce £ 300 million of supply chain investment at the energy security conference last week , and why we will continue to fight for this transition while the conservative party turn against it . I do not run the London marathon and I never will , but I be hugely admiring of all colleague who do , and particularly my hon . friend the Member for Gordon and Buchan ( Harriet Cross ) and her incredible time . the Minister reference the point I make yesterday about the grid in Scotland and previously express concern about the amount of time it would take to reboot that grid if there be an outage . as we have see in Spain and Portugal , there be significant disruption if the grid be off for hour , but if it be off for day , that would be very significant and much hard to manage . will he confirm again that the Department will look specifically at that issue ? I say to the right hon . gentleman : never say never . I be sure he have it in he . I entirely agree with the right hon . Gentleman . in the news we see the impact on day - to - day life of what happen in Spain and Portugal , and he be absolutely right that if that be to go on for long than a few day , there would be quite significant impact . we look closely at the cascade effect and at what part of the system we reboot fast than other to deliver priority service , such as in the NHS . we will continue to do that . the point he raise yesterday and again today about how quickly different part of the UK and Scotland would be reboot be an important one that I will take away . with all these marathon runner in the House today , I wonder whether we might be able to generate some kinetic energy rather than the usual hot air . [ interruption . ] I apologise ; I do not expect a pylon for that — sorry , another energy joke . my genuine congratulation to all those who do run . the major concern of resident in my constituency be the age grid infrastructure . what work have the Minister do to ensure that we have the infrastructure we need to ensure that constituency like mine have the power to shine ? Madam Deputy Speaker , I think you need to make a ruling on draw marathon - relate pun in the House to an end , but the subject be a really important one . of course , that be why we be in this sprint towards build more network infrastructure — [ interruption . ] thank you . there be two really important thing to recognise with our network . first , it can not stay in the state that it be in forever ; it need upgrade . secondly , the demand that we fully expect to see — potentially a doubling by 2050 , and maybe even more than that — mean that we will have to build more grid to bring the power to where it be necessary to deliver economic growth . it be right that we move forward with that , but everyone will need to recognise that , to deliver that system — whether we be deliver clean power or not — the network be necessary , and stuff do have to get build somewhere . the Government be commit to build it and the conservative party be commit to oppose it . will the Minister expand a little on a question put to he by my hon . friend the Member for Thornbury and Yate ( Claire Young ) ? the PSTN , or public switch telephone network , switch - off mean that by the end of 2027 all landline will require an electricity supply . this mean that the mobile network become ever more vital for people who require their mobile phone for medical care or even to make a 999 call in the event of an emergency . what assessment have be make of the resilience of the mobile network in the event of power outage ? what more need to be do to make sure we be ready for that kind of situation ? I thank the hon . Lady for that important question . I be here after storm É owyn , when we discuss that a number of people who no long have a copper wire line be not able to contact emergency service . it be a really important point . there be resilience build into the mobile phone network to ensure that mast should be able to operate in circumstance when even the power to they be cut off . it be a question for Ofcom to look at and I have speak to my colleague in the Department for Science , Innovation and Technology and the Department for Culture , Media and Sport to make sure that that be happen . there be more that we can do . we be engage with the Energy Networks Association , which work with distribution network operator , to make sure that all the resilience plan join up and that the practical impact that the hon . Lady rightly raise be take into account . I will write to she with update . as my hon . friend the Member for Rugby ( John Slinger ) have already highlight , synthetic inertia technology be use to simulate the benefit that traditional turbine technology provide to an electricity grid now increasingly supply by renewable . be the Minister satisfied that we have sufficiently invest in those technology to provide resilience across the grid ? be there an argument that surge protection device , which wiring regulation mandate for nearly all new domestic and commercial installation , should be instal in all home and business ? I will take that interesting point on surge protection away and speak to my colleague in the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government . on the wide point around inertia , as the system change , there be a constant balancing job for the National Energy System Operator to make sure that we design a system that be resilient . we be deploy technology to ensure that the system be resilient and there be sufficient inertia by procure the alternative technology that my hon . friend the Member for Rugby ( John Slinger ) reference , but we will keep it under constant review . may I assure the House that , not wish to inflict a by - election on the citizen of East Antrim , I will not be run any marathon — not now or at any other time in future ? the Minister have rightly say that the cause of the outage in Spain be yet to be identify , but the fact be that it be link to 53 % of electricity on that day be generate from renewable source . that should be a sobering warning to all in this House who have be champion the decarbonisation of electricity and the net zero policy . I be glad that there be inertia build into the system , but the Minister have already accept that that increase the cost of electricity every week because we have to build a new network to deal with the spike in electricity ; build battery storage , which increase the cost of electricity ; and keep gas generator idle over expensively , the cost of which be add to consumer bill , in order to bring they on grid when the wind drop . I know that the Minister have to defend the policy of his boss that we will get cheap electricity , even though there be no evidence of that , but will he accept that building inertia into the system will add considerably to consumer ’ bill ? I be afraid that I do not accept anything that the right hon . Gentleman have just say . he say in his first breath that it be right to wait for the outcome of an investigation and then prejudge that investigation with his own conclusion . I want to wait for some evidence from the authority on that . the right hon . Gentleman be also wrong about the cost . People often forget that gas in our electricity system do not just appear out of thin air ; it come with a cost . it come with the cost of build new gas power station in the first place , which we would have to do if we do not move gas off the system . it also come with the volatility of be an internationally trade commodity — all our constituent be still pay the price of the energy crisis of a number of year ago . we will have to build infrastructure . if we be not build clean power infrastructure , the grid would still be critical because we have to get electricity to people ' s house . it be important to say that there be no zero - cost option here . we be invest now in a clean power system that deliver considerably cheap power in the long term . I commend what the Minister say at the outset on the need to insure against high - impact , low - probability event . in a non - dogmatic spirit , may I appeal to he to reconsider the way in which the Government be deal with the question of the two shale gas well , which they have decide , under normal circumstance , they do not wish to see exploit ? surely those well should not be seal so permanently that if we be in a wartime conflict situation they could not be reactivate ? I be not aware of the specific circumstance mention at the end of the right hon . Gentleman ' s question , but I be happy to look into that particular case . the broad point be that we do not see licensing for new oil and gas and fracke as part of our future , and there be a presumption against fracke in other part of the UK as well . we have a resilient energy system that do not require that . I will , however , take away the point he raise and write to he . the Minister have leave himself expose to the climate denier in this Chamber because he have come of his own volition to make a statement in the absence of any understanding of what have actually happen in Spain and Portugal , thereby deny Parliament an ability to discuss any kind of strategic comparative assessment between the resilience of the GB grid and that of the iberian grid . if he have delay until he have the answer , we might be have a more valuable discussion . the Minister have be force to say that his Department be ready for all eventuality ; well , tell that to the ten of thousand of radio teleswitch service customer who will be leave high and dry by his Department . he say that he have every confidence in the National Energy System Operator . I do not have a lot of confidence in it on 7 January when , but for the reinstatement of the vike interconnector , we would have have a very difficult situation on the GB link . I know that that be distribution and not transmission . there be also the matter of try to instil confidence in GB among electricity consumer after an episode on 21 March at Heathrow , which see global consequence for a relatively localise disaster in the UK energy market . how do the Minister have confidence after those two event ? the hon . Gentleman bring his customary sunny demeanour to his question and I be grateful for that on this of all day . first , I be give this statement because a number of hon . member across the House ask question of the Government on this issue , and it be right that the Government respond to such question . in fact , I would be criticise if the Government do not offer a statement when question be be ask . this statement be therefore in response to hon . member across the House and from different party . on the capacity question in January , I be afraid the hon . Gentleman be quite wrong . the repetition of those quite wrong statistic on social medium and in this House reduce confidence , and they be not base on truth . to be clear to the House , the standard operating reserve hold by NESO at all time be for the large power generator in the system , which , accord to NESO , be 1 . 4 GW on Wednesday 8 January and not 580 MW , which be the figure in the public domain . the overall headroom on that day be never low than 3 . 7 GW . it be simply not true to repeat the idea that we have 580 MW of capacity leave in the system ; it be never low than 3 . 7 GW . recent event in Spain and Portugal highlight the wide range of challenge face power grid , and we have hear many in previous question . those incident show the complexity of effective reporting and the ability to respond rapidly , and the skill require span multiple Departments , include the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero , DSIT , the National Cyber Security Centre and the Met Office , which be base in my constituency . this raise an important question : who be responsible for co - ordinating reporting for similar incident in the UK ? more importantly , do the Minister ' s Department have the right skillset to respond ? may I thank the hon . Gentleman , because that be a really important question and one that the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster have be wrestle with ? under all government there be individual department that take a responsibility and there be department that lead on part of this , and the covid inquiry have raise a number of question about how some of these resilience question be answer , so it be a really important point . my Department have a number of civil servant with expertise in how the energy system work . I pay tribute to the team , who be often there out of hour when storm and other incident occur . they do a remarkable job . the question about reporting , however , be important . partly what the Government seek to do with our mission approach and with the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster ' s work be to bring together the whole of Government so that everyone who have a responsibility be at the table , feed in their view . the hon . Gentleman make an important point . there be over 100 battery energy storage system — bess — facility operate in the UK , and another one be plan for Hawkchurch in East Devon . resident there be very worried about fire risk . South Korea be a global leader in BESS , yet the safety issue be plain . there be 38 fire incident link to BESS in South Korea up to 2022 . will the Minister commit to review the safety of BESS technology and explore energy storage solution that be less subject to fire risk ? I would first say that fire be a risk in a whole range of scenario , and I do not think we should jump to the view that because there have be some incident in one particular piece of infrastructure it be somehow inherent in the infrastructure . it be important to say that battery will play a critical role in our future energy system , but we obviously take issue of safety very seriously and the hon . Gentleman be right to raise they . the Health and Safety Executive have a role in this and the planning system also have a role in consider some of the fire risk , but we will keep this under review , particularly as the number of battery scheme increase . when the sun do not shine and the wind do not blow , electron do not flow , and that happen drearily predictably in northern Europe , particularly in the cold , dark winter month . as the Minister plan to increase the resilience of the UK grid , will he look at a place where the wind do reliably blow and the sun do shine — namely , south - west Morocco — and support the UK - Morocco power project , which could potentially deliver 8 % of the UK ' s grid need reliably and resiliently ? I anticipate the right hon . Gentleman ' s question after his first few word . I think the Secretary of State give he an answer yesterday . this be a private proposal that have come to Government for consideration . it have not be drive forward by Government . we be consider it at the moment and , as I think the Secretary of State say yesterday , we be happy to brief the right hon . gentleman on the detail of where we be at with it . we will make a decision in due course . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . may I seek your guidance ? my constituent , Ms Safiya Ismail be without an income because her pension credit application , which be make in July 2024 , remain outstanding . I seek your guidance as to what further step I can take to secure a response from the Department for Work and Pensions for my constituent . my diligent caseworker , Fatema Karim , have chase the matter on numerous occasion . we have be advise that it have be escalate to management , but as yet , no response have be receive . can you suggest any further step I can take to place my concern on behalf of my constituent on the record ? I be grateful for advance warning of the hon . member ' s point of order . ministerial correspondence be not a matter for the Chair , but all hon . member should be entitle to expect a timely reply , especially when they be contact Government Departments on behalf of their constituent . I be sure that those on the Treasury Front Bench will have note the hon . member ' s comment , and no doubt he will receive a response in due course . Bill present Parliamentary Scrutiny of Trade Agreements Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Clive Jones , support by Mr Alistair Carmichael , Daisy Cooper , Sarah Gibson , Mr Joshua Reynolds , Tom Morrison , Andrew George and Sarah Olney , present a Bill to provide for parliamentary approval of international trade agreement ; to require the Secretary of State to publish a propose negotiating mandate in draft before enter into negotiation in respect of an international trade agreement ; to require parliamentary approval of that draft before negotiation begin ; to make provision for the amendment of draft negotiating mandate by Parliament ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 16 May , and to be print ( Bill 227 ) . UK - USA Trade Agreements ( parliamentary Scrutiny ) Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to require the Secretary of State to lay before Parliament any trade agreement between the UK and the USA which the Government propose to implement ; to prohibit the implementation of such an agreement without the approval by resolution of each House ; to make provision for the amendment of such agreement by Parliament ; and for connected purpose . let we cast our mind back four year to the spring of 2021 . Liz Truss be the Secretary of State for International Trade . Boris Johnson be Prime Minister . the export of british good to the EU have fall sharply in January of that year , and the end of the Brexit transition period be nigh . the Government be in a hurry . Boris Johnson sit down for dinner with the australian Prime Minister here in Westminster . after three hour of small talk , a little negotiation and plenty of australian red wine , Johnson agree to remove tariff on over 99 % of australian product enter the UK , include beef . the Government know that such a deal would harm the UK agriculture and food industry . the Government ' s own analysis predict that the deal could leave the UK agriculture and food sector £ 278 million bad off . the australian high commissioner , who have be sit at the table , move quickly . scribble down Johnson ' s generous pledge , he excuse himself to go to the toilet and hand a note to an aide as he do so . within minute it be scan , turn into a formal trade document , print and slip into an official - look folder . the high commissioner then casually walk back into the dinner carry the so - call deal . that be all it take to sell out the UK ' s farmer : a wine - soak dinner , a hastily scribble note and a signature from a Prime Minister prepare to ignore the good advice of his own trade negotiator . without proper parliamentary scrutiny and a vote on any deal with the United States , we risk add to the pressure on our already struggle farmer , strip away safeguard on british citizen ' datum and sideline democratic scrutiny itself . currently , parliamentary scrutiny of international treaty in the UK be woefully inadequate . the Government can negotiate and sign a treaty with another country — even one as significant as the US — use prerogative power , without have to put it to a vote in Parliament . under the Constitutional Reform and Governance Act 2010 , know as CRaG , sign treaty must be lay before Parliament for 21 sitting day . Parliament can raise objection but it can not propose amendment and there be no requirement for a vote . recommendation bear of scrutiny be advisory , and not in the least bit binding . evidence be provide to the International Agreements Committee in the other place last year . it show just how outdated the UK ' s treaty scrutiny system be , set against how trade arrangement have evolve and become more complicated . modern trade deal now reach deep into domestic policy : they shape our food standard , our data right and even the regulation of artificial intelligence . if Back - Bench mp be shut out of the process , so too be the people we represent . parliamentary scrutiny be demonstrably weak in the wake of the UK ' s trade deal with Australia and New Zealand . the International Trade Committee condemn the Government ' s approach , say that it have " undermine " scrutiny . the Johnson Government do this by trigger the 21 - sit - day statutory period before Committees have receive evidence or complete report on the trade deal . this mean that Parliament have little information with which to assess the agreement . when the Australia deal be sign , Labour — then in opposition — rightly demand a parliamentary vote . now in government , it would do well to heed its own previous call for proper scrutiny . in east and mid - Devon , farmer who I represent have be hit hard by the poorly negotiate trade deal with Australia and New Zealand , which come on top of the plan change to inheritance tax and the peremptory closure of the sustainable farming incentive . even if a future UK - US trade deal uphold our food standard , west country farmer and other could still be undermine . the Government offer assurance about shut out hormone - treat beef and chlorinate chicken , but concern remain that the US could still flood the UK market with beef that be not hormone treat . the Government have assure we that there will be no compromise on environmental and animal welfare standard in the UK , but again , these assurance count for little if import from overseas be not produce to the same environmental standard or with the same requirement for high animal welfare standard . the UK be already too reliant on import food . import make up around 40 % of the UK ' s food supply in 2023 . UK food self - sufficiency have already fall sharply , from 78 % in 1984 to just 60 % today . there be those who say that some sector will always fall victim to trade negotiation , because the Government must balance the demand of various industry , but some of the factor currently be discuss by our trade negotiator be cross - cutting , and that include matter of digital trade and datum . the US want a digital - first deal . that would mean lock in rule that protect the interest of silicon valley , not the british public . it have already be speculate that the Government be consider reduce or scrap the digital service tax , which would cut taxis for some of the wealthy and most powerful american company in the world at the expense of public service user in the UK . the Office for Budget Responsibility forecast that the tax raise £ 700 million in 2024 - 25 — revenue that the Treasury can ill afford to forfeit at this time . Vice President J . d . Vance allege in a speech at the Munich security conference that " old , entrenched interest " be " hide behind ugly , Soviet - era word like ' misinformation ' and ' disinformation , ' " . that brand of free speech pay little heed to fact . vance may be represent some not altogether transparent interest himself . the US be push to overcome data localisation . that could allow US - base tech firm to centralise their data operation in the United States and rule out datum storage in the UK . if that come about , it would weaken the protection for british citizen ' datum , make it difficult to enforce UK privacy law . take as an example the contract that Palantir agree with the NHS in 2023 to install its federate data system . if a US - UK trade deal restrict datum localisation , it could allow NHS medical record to be export to the US , hand Palantir the power to exploit the enormous commercial value of british citizen ' datum . although Palantir claim that it will only act as a processor of datum , its business model be root in extract value from datum for commercial end . with access to one of the world ' s rich health dataset , Palantir could package insight and sell predictive analytic service to private healthcare provider , insurer and pharmaceutical company . Palantir ' s co - founder Peter Thiel have call the NHS a system that " make people sick " . he claim that freedom and democracy be no long compatible . Parliament should have the mean to ensure that Thiel ' s understanding of freedom can not bypass british democracy . this be not just about trade ; it be about trust . the Leader of the opposition should know : the right hon . member for North West Essex ( Mrs Badenoch ) be the Secretary of State for International Trade in 2023 when the Australia and New Zealand trade deal come into effect . Farming pay the price last time , and it could happen again — our digital freedom could pay the price , too . my Bill be simple : it do not block a US deal or tie the Government ' s hand ; it require that Parliament have a great say . that be what democracy demand , and that be what the public expect . question put and agree to . order , that Tim Farron , Calum Miller , Helen Morgan , Sarah Olney , Edward Morello and Richard Foord present the Bill . Richard Foord accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 16 May , and to be print ( Bill 228 ) . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . today ' s Daily Telegraph say that it have be reprimand by the Independent Press Standards Organisation for report on remark make in this Chamber by the then Communities Secretary Michael Gove . IPSO assert that the Telegraph should not have report without have first give a right of reply to the group that the remark relate to . press freedom be a cornerstone of democracy , and for century the right to freely report on the proceeding of this House have be protect in british law . those freedom allow the press to report without any hindrance or conditionality be secure as long ago as 1771 by John Wilkes . while IPSO may think it be be responsible , its reprimanding of the Telegraph undermine those fundamental right . will you , Madam Deputy Speaker , ask the House authority to speak with the Independent Press Standards Organisation to remind it that the british press have an absolute right to report on what be say here in this Chamber without any hindrance or conditionality ? I thank the right hon . member for his point of order and for notice of it . he have put his point on the record . without comment specifically on the IPSO ruling , because I understand that the issue be not straightforwardly about the reporting of what be say in this House , I do of course support the principle that be able to report on what be say here be extremely important . Sentencing Guidelines ( Pre - sentence Reports ) Bill consider in Committee [ Caroline Nokes in the Chair ] I remind member that in Committee they should not address the Chair as Madam Deputy Speaker . please use our name when address the Chair . Madam Chair , Chair and Madam Chairman be also acceptable . clause 1 - sentence guideline about pre - sentence report I beg to move amendment 1 , page 1 , line 6 , leave out " different personal characteristic of an offender " and insert " an offender ' s membership of a particular demographic cohort . " with this it will be convenient to discuss the follow : amendment 3 , page 1 , line 7 , at end insert — " ( 2A ) after subsection ( 7 ) insert — ' ( 7a ) in the case of guideline within subsection ( 4 ) about pre - sentence report , the Council must , after make any amendment of the guideline which it consider appropriate , obtain the consent of the Secretary of State before issue sentence guideline as definitive guideline . ( 7b ) in any case to which subsection ( 7a ) apply , the Secretary of State may — ( a ) consent to the issuing of guideline as definitive guideline , ( b ) refuse consent for the issuing of guideline as definitive guideline , or ( c ) direct the Council to issue the guideline in an amend form as definitive guideline . ( 7C ) where the Secretary of State have consent to the issuing of guideline under subsection ( 7b ) ( a ) or have direct the Council to issue guideline in an amend form under subsection ( 7b ) ( c ) , the Council must issue the guideline as definitive guideline in the appropriate form " . " this amendment stop sentence guideline about pre - sentence report come into force unless approve by the Lord Chancellor . amendment 2 , page 1 , leave out line 10 and insert — " " a particular demographic cohort ' may include those relate to — " . amendment 4 , page 1 , line 13 , at end insert — " ( d ) status as part of a group that may have experience trauma from experience of racism or discrimination — ( i ) inter - generationally and relay to the defendant , or ( ii ) as a result of important historical event which may have have a great impact on those from specific group and culture . " this amendment would ensure that sentence guideline about pre - sentence report can not include a defendant ' s status as part of a group , particularly not if this involve consider event that may not have impact the defendant personally . clause 1 and 2 stand part . new clause 1 — independent review — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must arrange for an independent review to be carry out of — ( a ) the effect of the change make to section 120 of the Coroners and Justice Act 2009 by section 1 , and ( b ) sentence guideline about pre - sentence report . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State must , after consultation with the Sentencing Council , appoint a person with professional experience relate to pre - sentence report to conduct the review . ( 3 ) the review must be complete within two year of the passing of this Act . ( 4 ) as soon as practicable after a person have carry out the review , the person must — ( a ) produce a report of the outcome of the review , and ( b ) send a copy of the report to the Secretary of State . ( 5 ) the Secretary of State must lay before each House of Parliament a copy of the report send under subsection ( 4 ) ( b ) within one month of receive the report . " it be worthwhile at the outset of all debate on this Bill to restate that it be about pre - sentence report that give information to sentencer that may be use in sentencing decision , not about the passing of sentence themselves . specifically , the Bill be about the guideline issue by the Sentencing Council to sentencer about the circumstance in which a pre - sentence report should normally be ask for , and about the sort of information about an offender which such a report may provide and which may be appropriate to consider and take into account before decide on an appropriate sentence in that offender ' s case . there have be broad agreement — I see the Mother of the House , the right hon . member for Hackney North and Stoke Newington ( Ms Abbott ) , in her place , so I will not say unanimity — that an offender ' s ethnicity , race , culture or faith be on their own not that sort of information and that the Sentencing Council be wrong to suggest that pre - sentence report should be award on that basis . I would argue that be because , even if there may be point to make about the treatment or experience of member of the ethnic , faith or cultural group to which the offender in question happen to belong , what be relevant to the sentencing of that offender can only be the treatment or experience to which the particular offender have themselves be subject , not whether they have arise in the case of other member of the same group who be not before the court . that be effectively the impact of amendment 4 in the name of the shadow Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Bexhill and Battle ( Dr Mullan ) . that be why the Government be right to seek to exclude even from the process of ask for a pre - sentence report — let alone from pass sentence itself — the making of decision base only on membership of such a group . that be after all what the Government have say this Bill be for . these group be describe in the explanatory note to the Bill as " particular demographic cohort " . paragraph 8 say , " the Bill be intend to ensure that Sentencing Guidelines be draft in such a way as to prevent differential treatment and maintain equality before the law . it do this by prevent the creation of a presumption regard whether a pre - sentence report should be obtain base on an offender ' s membership of a particular demographic cohort , rather than the particular circumstance of that individual . " despite that explanation in the explanatory note , the Bill go far than that by prohibit the Sentencing Council from include in a sentencing guideline any " provision frame by reference to different personal characteristic of an offender . " that be what clause 1 ( 2 ) say in insert language into the Coroners and Justice Act 2009 . I think that language be significantly wide in impact than reference to membership of particular demographic cohort — undesirably so , in my view . that be why I have table amendment 1 , which would adopt the language use in the explanatory note . let I explain why I think that would be preferable . my starting point be that I do not believe all personal characteristic be inappropriate to consider in a sentencing decision . there be , of course , much more to be consider in a sentencing decision than simply information about the offender , particularly the seriousness of the offence and its consequence , but relevant information about the offender be need as part of the process . it surely can not be right , then , to prohibit the Sentencing Council from encourage sentencer to find out more about some of the personal characteristic that be relevant in reach a more informed and therefore well sentencing decision — for example , a physical or learn difficulty , or a brain injury from which an offender will not recover . the relevance of that information be not just in form a full picture of the offender to be sentence , but in assist a sentencer to know whether that offender be capable of carry out aspect of a community order , include work in the community , which the sentencer may want to consider as a potential sentencing option . it be worth underline of course that the ordering of a pre - sentence report — whatever it say when it be produce — do not bind the hand of a sentencer to do as it recommend , but in reality , without one a sentencer ' s option be often more limited . that be why guidance on when to ask for a pre - sentence report matter . I defer to my right hon . and learn Friend ' s experience , but be there not an argument for every case to have a pre - sentence report in order to truly understand what an individual have face and whether there be any mitigate factor ? I appreciate that that could create a backlog for these service , but be it not one possible solution to the problem that the Sentencing Council be worried about — namely , that different cohort might have different sentencing outcome ? my hon . friend make a fair point in relation to offender who hover on the border between community sentence and custodial sentence , but he will know that , in the Crown court at least , the majority of such offender already have a pre - sentence report . of course , there be also offender who come before the court for sentencing and it be blindingly obvious either that a custodial sentence will follow , or that neither a community sentence nor a custodial sentence be realistically in prospect , so I do not think it right to say that we should have a pre - sentence report in every case , but there be already in law a presumption that pre - sentence report should be order unless it be unnecessary to do so . what we be seek to do here be respond to a very specific set of circumstance that have arise as a result of a Sentencing Council decision . as he may have hear I say on Second Reading , I do not think that the Sentencing Council handle this well , and as a result we be have to do something that we would otherwise not have to do . sentencing offender be , in all circumstance , a difficult business . the fact that different offender receive different sentence , even for the same offence , be not necessarily evidence of a defect in sentencing practice as a result of guideline or otherwise , but be more likely a reflection of the reality that every case and every offender be different . we should not , I suggest , try to stop judge reach the appropriate conclusion , assist by Sentencing Council guideline , in each case before they . nobody be try to stop judge sentence in individual case . all the Sentencing Council be seek to do be ensure that judge and magistrate have the maximum amount of information before come to a decision on the sentence . yes , I think the right hon . Lady be right that that be what the sentencing guideline be aim at , but I be afraid that the way in which they be phrase rather miss the mark , in my view . it be perfectly true to say that it be a good thing in most sentencing case to get as much information as possible , but the sentencing guideline have , as she will appreciate , particular influence on sentencer , who be oblige to follow they unless do so be not in the interest of justice . the tone that be set by the Sentencing Council in the guideline that it draft give a good indication to sentencer about the sort of thing that they ought to take into account in sentencing . as she hear I say — I think this be an important point to make — we be talk about the ordering of pre - sentence report and not about sentence itself . none the less , as I say , without a pre - sentence report , the number of option that can be impose be limited , and with a pre - sentence report , sentencer have more option , so whether sentencer be encourage to order pre - sentence report be not irrelevant . my concern be that the way in which the Sentencing Council have go about this be unhelpful . however — the right hon . Lady will hear I expand on this — it would be wrong to throw the baby out with the bathwater , and it be also important to recognise that some of the Sentencing Council guideline be profoundly helpful to sentencer ; they indicate that we should , in many case , get relevant information when consider individual sentencing decision . for all those reason , we should fetter the sentencing process only as much as we need to in order to meet legitimate policy objective , where genuine question of policy arise . that is , after all , what the Government say they be try to do here . amendment 1 would allow we to stop the Sentencing Council recommend pre - sentence report for those who simply belong to a demographic group , but not exclude they for those who have other personal characteristic that be clearly more relevant to the sentencing decision and do not , I suggest , give rise in any way to so - call two - tier justice . the Bill will still allow the Sentencing Council to issue guideline recommend pre - sentence report to explore the personal circumstance of an offender who be to be sentence , even though it will prohibit that in relation to the offender ' s personal characteristic , so the question arise of whether all the information about an offender that sentencer should properly take into account in sentencing can be justifiably describe as the offender " personal circumstance " . I will concede that there be a danger of get into fairly fine semantic distinction here , but to I at least , " characteristic " be thing that be intrinsic to the offender , while " circumstance " be the situation in which offender find themselves . the two be not the same . for example , be pregnant , addicted , a primary carer , or a victim of abuse , grooming or modern slavery could all be sensibly describe as personal circumstance , but disability or life - alter permanent injury feel more like characteristic . we do not need to get into all this in order to do the job that the Government want to do . minister have make it clear that they be seek to target this legislation carefully to avoid trespassing on the separation of power , and because they be not seek to undermine the independence of the Sentencing Council any more than be necessary to wrest back control of what be properly matter of policy . I suggest to the Minister that the more precise wording in amendment 1 — it be , of course , also government drafting , because it appear in the explanatory note — well meet the Government ' s own aim than the language in the Bill . if he do not agree , I hope that he will explain clearly in this debate why the Government have take a more expansive approach . finally , let I address amendment 3 in the name of the shadow Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Bexhill and Battle ( Dr Mullan ) , and other right hon . and hon . friend . as my hon . friend the shadow Minister know , I also have concern about the breadth of the language in that amendment . I recognise that some people would like to abolish or radically reform the Sentencing Council , but the Bill do neither of those thing , mean that its scope do not allow for a wide debate about the council ' s wide purpose and value — of course , you would not allow that debate either , Madam Chairman . as and when the Bill pass , the Sentencing Council will continue to operate , so when we consider amend the Bill far , we must have regard to the council ' s ability to operate effectively and convincingly . it can play its role in the criminal justice system effectively only if the guideline that it produce be authoritative . sentencer be likely to see they as such only if the Sentencing Council be clearly independent , and be see to make its judgment from a legal , not a political , perspective . amendment 3 state that all Sentencing Council guideline involve pre - sentence report must be agree by the Secretary of State , and that the Secretary of State may , if she so choose , rewrite those guideline . there be two problem with that . first , the Lord Chancellor have make clear and sensible distinction between guideline that relate to matter of policy and those that relate to matter of judicial discretion in specific sentencing case , with the latter be matter for the judiciary alone . I be not convince that all conceivable guideline relate to pre - sentence report will qualify as matter of policy , so take political control of all such guideline would not be appropriate . secondly , the Secretary of State ' s approval of guideline and , even more so , the capacity for she to rewrite the guideline be incompatible with the independence of the Sentencing Council . the Sentencing Council could be oblige to publish in its name a guideline with which it fundamentally disapprove . in the law as it stand , the Sentencing Council must consult the Lord Chancellor and the Justice Committee — I see the Chairman , the hon . member for Hammersmith and Chiswick ( Andy Slaughter ) , in his place — but that be not the same as the Sentencing Council require ministerial approval to publish the guideline . it be , of course , ministerial approval that be propose in the amendment , not parliamentary approval — those be very different thing . we be discuss a parliamentary decision about the guideline , not allow a Minister to make that decision for himself or herself . as I say on Second Reading , by its handling of this issue , the Sentencing Council have bring on itself both this legislation and , probably , a wide discussion about its future . however , we be not have that discussion today ; we be discuss legislation that be intend to allow the Sentencing Council to continue to operate and to fulfil what I believe be an important task . there be a big gap between legislation and individual sentencing decision . the Sentencing Council fill that gap , offer help to sentencer in their role . I suspect that if the Sentencing Council be not fulfil that function , someone or something else would have to do so . in that gap between legislation and individual case , the close we be to legislation , the more legitimate parliamentary and ministerial involvement be likely to be ; and the close we be to individual case , the more danger there be of trespassing on judicial independence and the separation of power , so we should tread carefully . if we be to compromise the independence of the Sentencing Council in substantial way , we should do it only have consider all the implication of do so , but that be not what this Bill allow for . it be design to do a specific job , and I think it could do it even more specifically , hence my amendment . it be a pleasure to take part in the Committee stage of this short Bill . on Second Reading , only a few day ago , I set out my view on the merit or otherwise of the Bill ; how it affect the role of the Sentencing Council ; the council ' s consultation on this guideline ; and the response to that consultation by the then Government , through their sentencing Minister , and by the Justice Committee , through my predecessor as Chair , Sir Bob Neill KC . I also regret the way that the Bill have be use to undermine judicial independence , and to allow ad hominem attack on judge under the guise of belate objection to the guideline . I be not the only person to raise these concern , and I agree entirely with the article on this matter by Sir Bob in the Times last Thursday . I do not propose repeat any of his argument ; nor do I need to spend a long time on the amendment table for debate . those propose by the official Opposition do no more than continue on another front the culture war that be the obsession of the shadow Lord Chancellor in his quest for high office . I be more sympathetic to the new clause in the name of the liberal Democrat spokesperson , the hon . member for Eastbourne ( Josh Babarinde ) , who be an important member of the Justice Committee . give the fractured nature of the debate around the Bill , and the testy relationship between the Sentencing Council and the Ministry of Justice , it may be sensible to review the effect of the Bill , but I be not sure we need to put that into legislation . indeed , the sentencing landscape be about to shift fundamentally with the imminent publication of the independent sentencing review , which be swiftly to be follow by a sentencing Bill . I suspect that issue raise by this Bill will get swallow up in that process , and the Lord Chancellor have indicate that it may include a review of the role of the Sentencing Council . I do not want to stir the pot far , but I observe that have the Sentencing Council be prepare , without the threat of legislation , to postpone implementation of the guideline , all these matter might have be deal with in one Bill , and in the light of David Gauke ' s recommendation . the parliamentary and ministerial time that have be spend debate a relatively narrow point could , in my view , have be well spend on other matter require urgent attention in our court and prison . do the hon . Gentleman accept that the reason why we be here today be an error of judgment by the Sentencing Council , on which it refuse to back down until threaten with legislation ? do the amendment propose by the shadow Justice Secretary not offer great protection to the public from future error of judgment by the Sentencing Council ? as I say , I do not want to repeat everything I say on Second Reading . I make a case then for why the Sentencing Council have behave quite properly . it be compliment by many people — include the Justice Committee , on which the hon . Gentleman serve — for the way it conduct its consultation . I have a great deal of sympathy with the council and its chair , who be somewhat surprised by the reaction at that stage , the guideline have be approve by pretty much everyone who consider it at that time . on the view of the hon . Gentleman and other member of the Justice Committee , whose opinion I have a great deal of time for , the Sentencing Council be a little stubborn when confront with the Lord Chancellor ' s view , as well as those of other Members of the House , and it could have act to prevent we all need to discuss this today ; as I say , there be many other matter that need our attention . on the amendment in the name of the right hon . and learn Member for Kenilworth and Southam ( Sir Jeremy Wright ) , as I would expect from a distinguished former Attorney General , his amendment go to the central issue in the Bill , which be whether it do what the Government intend it to do . I hope the Minister will address the issue of what a " personal characteristic " be , as oppose to a particular demographic cohort , and the question of what characteristic be catch by clause 1 . I will take a few minute , if I may , to add some relate question on which I be seek the Minister ' s guidance . first , I turn to the effect of the Bill on the sentencing guideline already in force . the effect of the Bill go beyond the imposition of the community and custodial sentence guideline and future guideline ; it would also render unlawful the inclusion of provision frame by reference to different characteristic of an offender in all definitive sentencing guideline by the Sentencing Council that have already be issue and be in force . the potential retrospective effect of the Bill on guideline already in force could create legal uncertainty as to their lawfulness . there be two main example of overarch guideline in force that could be catch by the Bill : the guideline on sentence child and young people , and the guideline on sentence offender with mental disorder , developmental disorder or neurological impairment . in relation to offence - specific guideline , a significant number contain mitigate factor frame by personal characteristic that have expand explanation refer to the need to order a pre - sentence report — for example , an explanation for the mitigate factor of " age and / or lack of maturity " in the aggravate burglary guideline . by way of another example , the explanation of the mitigate factor of pregnancy , childbirth and post - natal care in the same guideline state : " when consider a custodial or community sentence for a pregnant or postnatal offender … the Probation Service should be ask to address the issue below in a pre - sentence report . if a suitable pre - sentence report be not available , sentencing should normally be adjourn until one be available . " in a letter to the chair of the Joint Committee on Human Rights on 24 April , the Minister write : " once the Bill be in force , any provision in sentence guideline that be of the description in the new subsection ( 4A ) will cease to be lawful and so cease to have effect . I can therefore confirm that the Bill will , as a matter of law , affect both new and exist guideline . in practice , this mean that some exist guideline will be affect by the Bill , include offence - specific guideline relate to mitigate and aggravating factor , which set out guidance about psr for specific cohort . " to my mind , that prompt several question . first , have the Government determine which exist guideline will be render unlawful by the Bill ? secondly , why do the Government decide to make the provision in the Bill apply to all guideline , rather than just the imposition of the community and custodial sentence guideline , which be issue by the Sentencing Council as a definitive guideline on 5 March 2025 ? thirdly , be the Government willing to limit the effect of the Bill so that it do not affect the legality of any guideline currently in force ? all those matter be in the interest of clarity . there be also the matter of the definition of personal characteristic , which be touch on by the right hon . and learn Member for Kenilworth and Southam . the Bill state that guideline produce by the Sentencing Council can not include provision frame by reference to " personal characteristic " . the Bill then specify that personal characteristic include " in particular " race , religion or belief and cultural background . the list be non - exhaustive and therefore cover other personal characteristic , such as age , disability , sex and sexual orientation . clause 1 will therefore render unlawful the follow cohort , which be include in the imposition of the community and custodial sentence guideline : " a young adult … female … an ethnic minority " , which we have discuss , " pregnant or post - natal … have disclose they be transgender … have or may have a serious chronic medical condition or physical disability . " there be other . neither the Bill nor its explanatory note provide any further guidance on the intended meaning of " personal characteristic " . the use of the term " characteristic " mean that each of the protect characteristic , as define by the Equality Act 2010 — age , disability , gender assignment , marriage and civil partnership , pregnancy and maternity , race , religion or belief , sex and sexual orientation — may be catch by the provision . the Chair of the Joint Committee on Human Rights write to the Lord Chancellor on 8 April and ask the following question : " be the term ' personal characteristic ' in the Bill intend to exclude pregnancy , motherhood … and age … to ensure guideline that be consistent with … case law ? " the reply from the Minister on 24 April , which I have refer to , say : " the Bill specify that personal characteristic include race , religion or belief or cultural background . however , this be a non - exhaustive list and personal characteristic be also intend to cover a wide range of characteristic , include sex , gender identity , age , physical disability and pregnancy status . pregnancy , motherhood and age be therefore not exclude from the definition of ' personal characteristic ' " . the explanatory note state that the Bill do not affect Court of Appeal case law in circumstance where a pre - sentencing report be " necessary or desirable " . they then cite three case , which be Thompson , on " a woman who be pregnant or have recently give birth " ; Meanley , which involve young defendant ; and Kurmekaj , where " the defendant ' s traumatic upbringing , vulnerability and the fact they have be a victim of modern slavery " mean that a pre - sentence report should have be require . the explanatory note make it clear that the Government do not intend to prevent the Court of Appeal or any other body from issue guidance relate to pre - sentence report from be frame by personal characteristic , other than ethnic , cultural and faith or minority community . that appear to indicate that they do not object in principle to such an approach . the Minister ' s letter make it clear that the Government ' s objection lie with the Sentencing Council take such an approach . why do the Bill take a non - exhaustive approach to the definition of personal characteristic ? be the Government willing to narrow the effect of the Bill so that only reference to " ethnic minority , cultural minority , and / or faith minority community " will be deem unlawful ? will the Government explain why they wish to make it unlawful for the Sentencing Council to produce guidance to require a pre - sentence report for a defendant with a physical or mental disability ? why be the Government willing to accept that the Court of Appeal can provide guidance on when a pre - sentence report be need by reference to personal characteristic but not willing to accept the Sentencing Council do the same thing ? I have one final question . the effect of clause 1 be to prevent the inclusion of guidance that be " frame by reference to " personal characteristic . will the Bill prevent the Sentencing Council from make an indirect reference to personal characteristic through reference to either Court of Appeal case law or mitigate factor in a guideline relate to pre - sentence report ? those be the only matter I wish to raise in relation to the amendment today . I be concerned that there be ramification to proposal in the Bill that have not be cover . it may be that those can be correct in the other place , or it may be that matter have to wait until we have a sentencing Bill in the autumn . while I entirely understand the Government ' s frustration with the Sentencing Council , I do not feel that this Bill be the solution to the problem that they have identify , whereas its consequence have be exaggerate in many respect . if we want a system that be not only fair and robust , but clear in deal with when pre - sentence report be need , we need to return to this issue on a future occasion . I have already record my support for the principle of this Bill , which be unfortunately necessary to uphold the principle of equal justice . I speak in support of amendment 3 and 4 , which would far strengthen this legislation . amendment 3 would give the Justice Secretary the power to prevent future error of judgment by the Sentencing Council . it would require the council to secure ministerial consent before issue any sentencing guideline concern pre - sentence report . we should be clear that that be not a measure aim at politicise justice . however , we must ensure democratic oversight of a body that have show itself to be capable of commit a serious error of judgment , which lead to the situation today . the reason why we be legislate be that the Sentencing Council ' s guidance propose treat offender differently base on their ethnic , cultural or religious identity . that be wrong . the Sentencing Council have at no point suggest treat defendant differently accord to their ethnicity or religion . all it have try to do be ensure that judge and magistrate have the maximum information . the Sentencing Council say that if , for example , someone be a white , christian male , they be less likely to benefit from a pre - sentence report than if they be a member of a religious or ethnic minority . I believe that that be wrong . do the hon . member know that any defendant before the court who have no previous conviction , despite the seriousness of the offence , be entitle to a pre - sentence report ? I be grateful to the hon . member for his intervention . as a former solicitor , I be familiar with that provision , and I agree that any defendant who have not yet receive a custodial sentence should have the benefit of a pre - sentence report . however , imagine two criminal who both have a criminal record , but one be a member of a religious or ethnic minority and one be not . the guideline propose treat they differently , and that be not justice . be the fact not that the sentencing guidance say that a pre - sentence report would normally be consider necessary , and then go on to talk about race and religion ? make those distinction immediately apparent in sentence guidance , which could mean that a white christian male would be treat differently if they commit the same offence as someone of a different ethnicity , be the fundamental problem . indeed . I be grateful to my hon . friend for make that point ; the point I wish to make to the Committee be that all defendant should be treat equally . it should not be a matter of whether or not they be a member of an ethnic or religious minority . the Sentencing Council do not withdraw the guidance on principle , and it do not acknowledge its error . it be force to backtrack only after public and political pressure , largely from the shadow Justice Secretary , my right hon . friend the Member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) . even then , the council continue to defend the policy ' s rationale in private communication to the judiciary . that be not accountability — it be evasion . that be precisely why amendment 3 be so vital . we can not allow this to happen again , and Parliament must have a say when guidance threaten the impartiality of our legal system . amendment 4 , which address the content of sentence guidance itself , be equally important . the amendment would make it illegal for sentence decision to consider a defendant ' s group identity , particularly in reference to historical discrimination that have no bearing on their individual case . current bail guidance from the Ministry of Justice already advise court to consider the trauma suffer by individual whose relative experience racism or cultural discrimination . it even refer to " important historical event " and their suppose differential impact on specific ethnic or cultural group . that approach undermine the principle that people should be judge as individual , not as member of a group . amendment 4 would draw a clear legal line : mitigate factor in sentencing must relate directly to an individual ' s action and circumstance . inherit identity or injustice not experience by a particular convict criminal should not be relevant to the sentence pass by the court . race , religion or cultural background should not determine whether someone be send to prison , and it should not determine whether or not someone should benefit from a pre - sentence report . the Lord Chancellor have argue that the current Bill allow she to " move at pace " to reverse the bad aspect of the Sentencing Council ' s proposal , but this be not just about move fast ; it be also about ensure that we never face this situation again . amendment 3 and 4 be essential if we be serious about protect the most basic principle of a free society , which be equality before the law . without they , the Bill address the symptom , but not the cause . as such , I urge the Committee to support those amendment and reaffirm our commitment to equality before the law . I entirely agree with member who be make the case that we should all be equal before the law . the problem be that the figure show that that be not the case , and it have not be the case for decade . if we look at the statistic for the number of people in prison , black people make up 12 % of the prison population , yet we only make up 4 % of the general population . that tend to raise the concern that we be not equal before the law across the whole custodial and criminal justice system . I remember that year ago , before some member be in the House , you could not say anything about institutional racism in the police force and how black people be treat by the police . it take Stephen Lawrence and the Macpherson inquiry to get politician and people who speak for the state to even acknowledge that there be such an issue as institutional racism in the police force . my concern about the debate we have have about these guideline be that , for short - term political advantage , we be put forward a hurried Bill that carry the risk of undermine the Sentencing Council and indirectly undermine the judiciary . I do not believe that that be in the interest of our legal system . I remind the Committee that the guideline be put out to consultation and there be 150 respondent , only four of which make any reference to the guideline on ethnic minority that be so upsetting member on both side of the House . since then , 20 organisation , include the Centre for Women ' s Justice , Amnesty International and the end violence against Women Coalition , have write to the Lord Chancellor to say that the consequence of ditch the guideline could be dire . among other thing , they contain detailed advice on sentence pregnant woman and the parent of very young child . I repeat that the guideline do not dictate the sentence . they only say that there be instance — where the defendant be young , or where they be a pregnant woman — in which we want the maximum information . what be problematic about this debate and this legislation be that it have be frame as if the real conflict be between politic and the role of our criminal justice system . I would say that the real issue underlie this legislation — I know this be not a view that be share — be how seriously this House , and Ministers in particular , be prepared to take the proven history of racial discrimination in our criminal justice system , and not just pay lip service to it but do something about it . the poor Sentencing Council be scarcely make up of radical ; it be a group of very senior judge . however , like anybody with any connection to the criminal justice system , those judge know that there be an issue of institutional racism in the court . in the mild possible way , they be try to make a suggestion through their guideline that might help to ensure that everybody be treat the same . as I say at the beginning of my speech , I believe everybody be not treat the same , and people outside this Chamber will not understand how so many member , include so many Ministers , be try to claim that we be all treat the same . if we want to hold our criminal justice system up to the light — if we want to show people that we as a House be concern with make sure that the system be fair and be see to be fair — we should accept the guideline that have be put forward by the Sentencing Council . I associate myself with every single thing that the Mother of the House have just say , because I could not possibly live up to it . I genuinely believe that this Bill will undermine effort to ensure that equality before the law be a reality for everyone . it fly in the face of expertise and of the painstaking , authoritative work of the Sentencing Council — a rightly independent body run by , and for , the judiciary . this be a strange and populist Bill that be undermine and delay good , well - evidence independent guideline for effective sentencing that would have make our justice system more fair , rather than less . I will start my objection to clause 1 and 2 stand part of the Bill — I be essentially oppose the Bill as a whole — by comment on the process . we have before we a single - page Bill that in its specificity and intent can not but bring to my mind how the current President of the United States be use executive order to interfere intrusively and intricately in the rightly independent decision making of other body . this be a micro Bill that micromanage . I worry what else we might see from this government if such an example be set today . on Second Reading , the shadow Justice Secretary be not shy of tell we about his next target , which include the long - stand " Equal Treatment Bench Book " . the hon . member for Hammersmith and Chiswick ( Andy Slaughter ) have outline other guideline that might be immediately affect if we pass this Bill today . my second objection be about the substance of the Bill , which be primarily contain in clause 1 . I can not believe that Ministers and shadow Ministers be unaware that achieve fair and equal outcome do not mean treat everyone exactly the same . that principle be so fundamental that I think I learn it through the round window . I can not believe they be unaware that systemic racism and unconscious bias be real thing that still affect people at every stage of the criminal justice system in the United Kingdom in 2025 . they must be aware that the good practice that we put together must mitigate those thing , or else it will compound they . I do not believe that the Government as a whole think that the finding of the independent Lammy review of 2017 be untrue , or that they and a wealth of other evidence do not demonstrate the need for guideline of this sort to provide information to help mitigate the impact of systemic racism and prejudice . yet here we be , be ask to vote for legislation that essentially ban this evidence and these principle from be part of independent judicial guideline . my concern and that of Opposition Members be that the guidance give example where pre - sentence report would " normally be consider necessary " and pick out an identity of a religion or a minority , thereby entrench racism back into the system . that be the very aim that the hon . member purport to not want to see . that be the fundamental argument that the Government and the opposition be put forward . we do not want to see this situation make bad . this be — will the hon . member give way ? yes , of course . just to respond to the point that the hon . member for Hinckley and Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) have just raise , the guideline do not pick out race and ethnicity . in fact , they list a number of circumstance in which a pre - sentence report might be consider appropriate , such as someone face their first custodial sentence , someone who be under 25 , someone who be a woman , pregnant , a primary carer or a dependent relative , someone who have say they be transgender or someone who may have addiction issue . far from the Sentencing Council pick out race and ethnicity , that be only one in a long list of circumstance in which it suggest a pre - sentence report might be appropriate . to return to the intervention from the hon . member for Hinckley and Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) , it be difficult for some to realise that with these guideline , the definition of " normal " have flip away from the male , the white , the Christian and the majority to shine more of a light on people who be part of minority and might have experience systemic problem lead up to the sentencing decision . that be the point of the guideline . that be how we act in an anti - racist way . it be how we put together policy that mitigate the great problem that the Mother of the House , the right hon . member for Hackney North and Stoke Newington ( Ms Abbott ) , have outline and we know well . in contrast to this rush Bill , the process that lead to the now suspend new Sentencing Council guideline be excellent : the document be consult on widely ; the Justice Committee look at it ; and it be give the green light by a Conservative Government , of which the shadow Justice Secretary be a member . before I be intervene on , I be aware that a small change be make , but in essence the same document have come forward and the same principle be enshrine in the document that be propose and approve . there be basically consensus that more use of pre - sentence report should be make for people suffer from systemic injustice , that particular group might be in great need of they , and that judge should be permit and encourage to ask for such report for those group in more circumstance . I want to talk about another group who will suffer from the delay cause by the Bill suspend the guideline . I do not know when we will get new guideline , but there will be more harm to woman , family and child , who be all give more specific focus in the new — now suspend — guideline . I have work for some year on the problem and injustice face woman in the criminal justice system . I be concerned about the serious consequence that will come from any delay to these long overdue change to far widen the use of pre - sentence report and to make those report easy for these group . there will be serious consequence not only for too many people with these characteristic or circumstance — however we define it — but for wide society too . will Ministers tell we about the impact of this delay on woman , family , pregnant people and other group name ? when will we get new guideline that include they ? how many people will be harm in the meantime ? this delay have already take some week . some member will be familiar with the seminal 2007 Corston report about woman with particular vulnerability in the criminal justice system . incidentally , that document remind we in its introduction : " equality do not mean treat everyone the same . " the Sentencing Council guideline be about to help plug a gap that still remain in term of address the recommendation and theme of the Corston report . indeed , in its commentary , the Sentencing Council rightly point to deeply concern evidence of this problem . I be aware of difficulty judge have have in justify delay and adjournment to go and get pre - sentence report . the old guidance push for often impossible same - day report back from the Probation Service and caution against adjournment . with this delay to the new guideline , will it be 2027 — 20 year after Corston — before the old guideline be fully remove ? how many woman might be harm in the meantime ? as far as I can see , the shadow Justice Secretary have score a major win today , seize this issue to stage another culture war ambush against another minority . instead of stand by judge and by important principle we have all know for a long time — instead of simply allow these guideline to be trialle while the concern be raise be address calmly — this Government have essentially put an executive order - style Bill before we now for its remain stage . there be not even time on Second Reading for opponent like I to point that out . I be sorry , but I believe that this Bill represent nothing less than a rushed and extraordinary capitulation by this Government to hard - right propaganda . People will suffer injustice as a result . it be profoundly worrying to see the Government legislate in this manner , micromanage justice in way that be lead by — let ' s face it — dog whistle , rhyme slogan and disingenuous propaganda . I will support new clause 1 , but I sincerely hope that other Members will join I in voting against this Trumpian Bill and show our respect for the independence of judge and magistrate on these matter . it be vital that we do something today to stand up for evidence - lead policy , judicial independence and genuine equality before the law . let I begin by draw member ' attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests ; I be a member of the Bar . I will align my comment with those of the Mother of the House , the right hon . member for Hackney North and Stoke Newington ( Ms Abbott ) , and the hon . member for Brighton Pavilion ( Si â n Berry ) . the Bill , and the amendment , do not in reality tackle two - tier justice in this country ; in fact , they risk entrench it . our justice system be found on a principle that we all claim to uphold — fairness and equality before the law — but today we be be ask to support legislation that fundamentally undermine that principle . let I be absolutely clear . this be not a matter of opinion . Lord Justice William Davis , the chair of the Sentencing Council , have write candidly about the issue . he have say , for example , that defendant from minority ethnic background be statistically more likely to receive harsh sentence than their white counterpart for a similar offence . that be not the opinion of politician or pressure group , but a warning from within the senior judiciary itself . the Bill ignore that reality . worse still , it undermine one of the very tool design to correct it : the pre - sentence report . let we remind ourselves what a pre - sentence report be , and what it be not . it be not the sentence itself . sentencing decision be rightly govern by separate judicial guidance , base on culpability , harm cause and establish sentencing range . those guideline remain in place . what the pre - sentence report do be help the court to understand the background and circumstance of the offender — information that be need to establish effective pathway to rehabilitation , particularly when the offender have experience issue such as mental health challenge , learn difficulty or lifelong trauma . the current guideline for pre - sentence report be very carefully revise with the input of not just senior judge but lead academic and practitioner — expert in criminal justice who understand the complexity and systemic disadvantage that many offender face . in the House , we routinely rely on expert testimony to shape our policy , whether it concern the NHS , education or the environment , and rightly so . in this case , however , we be do the precise opposite : reject expert opinion , dismiss datum , and ignore live experience . let I offer an analogy , or a parallel , with health disparity . accord to Public Health England and the Stroke Association , black african and caribbean man over the age of 55 be almost twice as likely to suffer a stroke as white man of the same age . that be not speculation ; it be a clinical fact . if the NHS be to implement a target programme to deliver early stroke prevention for that group , not a single person in this Chamber would call it a two - tier health system . we would call it evidence - base care . we would call it a fair and proportionate response to a known disparity . so why , when it come to justice , be we so afraid to apply the same logic ? from a medical perspective , there would be a genetic predisposition . be the hon . Gentleman seriously suggest that people would , on a genetic basis , find themselves affect by the law purely because they be black ? the comparison he have just make be exactly that , from a medical standpoint . I do not think he would really make such a suggestion , and I would certainly be against that position . the hon . Gentleman have make his point , but as a criminal practitioner who have frequent court over the last 20 year , I have see disparity . I have see sentencing which , in my view , be not fair . lived experience among certain community be just as important as those of other minority , whatever their background . ultimately , who have decide that this be an important element that need to be take into account in the sentencing guideline ? this go through all the consultation under the last government . People have see it , and agree to it . it do not raise a concern back then , so why should it now ? address inequality be not the same as create inequality . it be , in fact , the only way in which to ensure real equality — to ensure that justice be not just blind in theory , but fair in practice . I know some will argue that we need to understand the root cause of disparity , and they be right : that long - term work be essential . however , while it be go on we must act in the present . we must allow the expert to do their job and support the guidance that they , not we , have develop through year of experience , research and consultation . this Bill be not just misguided ; it be regressive . I can not and will not support legislation that sideline expert insight , ignore datum and compromise the principle of fairness that we all claim to defend in the name of political convenience . justice must not only be do but be see to be do , and right now the community that face this disparity will no doubt be concern about the Government ' s approach . first , I acknowledge that disparity in outcome in our judicial system be a real issue and merit serious attention . I recognise the work of the Lammy review in 2017 , as well as the conclusion of the Ministry of Justice ' s 2020 report , " tackle Racial Disparity in the Criminal Justice System " , which find disparity in how people from minority ethnic group be treat in the judicial system . it be important that these issue continue to have the focus that they merit . however , I be glad that the Bill have pass its Second reading and that we be progress through its remain stage today . I be firmly of the view that it be not for the Sentencing Council to make policy decision on this matter , for those be the domain of politician and must remain so . the Government should be able to make political decision and implement they , and the ballot box be the right place for we to be hold to account . what I find refreshing about the continued passage of this Bill be that we be show that politician do not have to be jelly - like in the face of blockage to their desire to make political decision . at the same time , I support the unamended passage of the Bill , because it find a way to thread the needle with a target intervention . amendment 3 , table by the shadow Secretary of State for Justice , go too far and would undermine the independence of the Sentencing Council . my hon . friend refer to blockage . how can he describe member of this House , and people in the community who be try to stand up for a fair and just criminal justice system , as blockage ? I do not think that anyone in this House be a blockage — far from it . the point I be make be that I believe that this House should be the place where political decision be make , and that politician should make decision about important thing that matter to people in this country . it be my view that the Sentencing Council be an important body . crucially , however , it be not political , and I think that if the guideline have go through , it would have undermine the important principle of equality before the law . that be a political decision , and member of this House hold different opinion , but it be for we to contest they in this place . I be glad the Government be make sure that we can make progress on the thing that we believe need to be push forward for the british people , and I hope that the Bill will pass unamended today , because the precise change that it propose would prevent sentencing guideline from be change in way that undermine equality before the law . I do not think that the amendment table by the opposition be necessary , because they take thing too far . with this Bill and much else besides , it be time for we to show that moderate politic , which be the politic of this Government , do not have to be like soup — weak and watery , and impossible to hold on to — but can instead be the politic of action and delivery . I welcome the continued passage of this Bill and urge member to vote for it today . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I make the liberal Democrat position on this very short Bill , and on this issue more widely , abundantly clear in the last debate that we have on this matter : we believe in equality before the law , we believe in the rule of law , and we believe that no one be above the law . that be why we believe that anyone face the prospect of a custodial sentence should be the subject of a pre - sentence report . we believe that the state have that duty before dispense its power to deprive someone of their liberty . there be no world in which judge and magistrate have more information about an offender , whoever they be , and their circumstance be a bad thing . that be why it be an injustice that the use of pre - sentence report have fall from 160 , 000 in 2015 to just 90 , 000 by 2023 , which be a cut of 42 % . that have leave judge and magistrate with few resource and insight than ever with which to go about their work . less informed sentencing mean less satisfactory sentencing outcome . it mean more reoffende , more victim and more turmoil , and that be unacceptable . that be not justice . this be a product of the under - investment in our Probation Service — it compile the report — which be gutte under the Conservative Government . I therefore welcome the fact that the Minister , in his closing speech on Second Reading , agree with I that " the debate should be about how we move to universality of pre - sentence report , not about ration . " — [ Official Report , 22 April 2025 ; Vol . 765 , c . 1019 . ] I will come to new clause 1 shortly . the hon . member will be aware that any sentencing magistrate or judge can request a pre - sentence report , so I would say that his use of the word " rationing " be inappropriate . I do not know whether the hon . Member have read the Sentencing Council ' s summary of the response to the draft guidance that be in consultation under the Conservative Government , but it paraphrase magistrate and judge as say that drive the universality of pre - sentence report would be challenge in the light of the limited resource for the Probation Service and of the court backlog . I would suggest that he consult that document to see the phrase use by those legal professional . how much would universality cost ? have the Lib Dems calculate how much it would cost ? if the hon . member for Bridgwater ( Sir Ashley Fox ) be make the point that these report should exist come what may , the cash should be ringfence and earmark for the use of judge and magistrate to request they , but he and the hon . member for Hinckley and Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) can not have it both way . we know that if we well tailor a sentence to whether it will result in somebody not reoffende — if we well match the sentence to an offender — we can spend to save . if we can reduce reoffende by ensure that people get the appropriate sentence , we will keep people out of our crumble prison who do not need to be there because they will not reoffend in the first place . we can spend to save . I regret that this issue have become a political football and one that be sow the seed of division . plainly and simply , this be about the shadow Justice Secretary attempt to hijack our criminal justice system for his own political end . so desperate be he to score political point that he use his platform in this House to undermine judge by name , in the full knowledge that they can not respond and that there be a formal process by which judicial complaint can be investigate and address . so desperate be the Conservatives to score political point that they paint judge as activist villain and be work to undermine public confidence in they just because the shadow Justice Secretary do not agree with their ruling . I would expect the Liberal Democrat spokesperson to at least acknowledge that such reference be to judge in their capacity as leader of the Sentencing Council , not to judge sit in individual case . that be an important distinction to make when parliamentarian comment on their conduct . I refer the hon . member to the comment the shadow Justice Secretary make at the last Justice question — I think the hon . Member be not in attendance for that — when he name a specific judge and make a critique of or complaint about they outside the formal process . judge have be vilify , as have other sit on the Sentencing Council , by member of this House . do the hon . Member agree that , if there be to be any vilification , it should be of the Conservative Members who form the previous Government , who hold the consultation and agree to the guidance ? I do not agree that vilification be the right approach from any side of the argument . this debate should be conduct with respect and courtesy , and I feel that that be miss from some of the comment I just refer to . absolutely , there must be accountability . indeed , the previous Government be hold accountable in huge respect at the general election , where they suffer the big defeat in their history . so desperate be the shadow Justice Secretary to rise to the top of our democracy that he be prepared , in the way I have describe , to undermine our democracy itself . turn to specific , as other hon . member have refer to , the Bill and its amendment be rush , knee - jerk and not the way to make policy about people ' s liberty or our constitution . why not negotiate with the Sentencing Council , now that the immediate emergency have subside ? to my knowledge , base on my engagement with the Ministry of Justice , Ministers and official , the question of how long they would be prepare to pause before the implementation of the guideline have not be ask . why not wait for the Gauke review to report and ensure that the issue be explore comprehensively and that wide consultation take place ? why not comprehensively address what be already a two - tier justice system , as hon . member on the Benches behind I and the Mother of the House , the right hon . member for Hackney North and Stoke Newington ( Ms Abbott ) , have refer to ? as the Lammy review find , people from ethnic minority background be more likely to serve long sentence for the same crime than those who be not from ethnic minority background . it be disappointing that there be no provision in the Bill to consider that . if the Government insist on pass the Bill , we urge they to embrace our call for an independent review of pre - sentence report to be conduct within two year , as per new clause 1 . I hope the hon . Member be listen to my speech when I talk about the harm that might be cause by the delay in bring in the really excellent part of the new guideline that might help woman and family . be the Liberal Democrats ask for a delay , or would they like to support bring in the part of the guidance that be agree as soon as possible ? one problem with the proposal be that consultation have be minimal . they come from a rush place . they come from a place of respond to a culture war . we be vote on people ' s liberty and we need to consider the issue in great detail before respond , not in a knee - jerk way . what I can say , and what I have discuss with member , include the Lord Chancellor , be that , for example , in the guidance on pre - sentence report , the circumstance of victim of domestic violence , modern slavery and so on should be consider . as I say at the very beginning of my speech , on pre - sentence report we should lean toward a presumption of universality rather than one of rationing , so that for all the group and individual that have just be mention , and more , judge can access a pre - sentence report . we make the call I have just make not only because we have grave concern about the impact of the propose change , but because we remain steadfastly commit to evidence - base policy making . against the backdrop of cynical culture war and leadership manoeuvre , it be more important than ever for the Government to assess the outcome of this policy , with assessment base on statistic , datum and evidence as oppose to dogma and ideology . to conclude , we must not dance to the tune of the populist or the culture war fanatic , or undermine our legal institution . as such , our position have not change since last time and we will act accordingly . we will defend our judicial system and its independence , but we reject short - term reform that fail to address the wide issue of disproportionality at play . I call the shadow Minister . I rise to speak in support of amendment 3 and 4 in my name and in the name of the shadow Secretary of State for Justice , my right hon . friend the Member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) , and of conservative colleague . as mps from across the House have make clear , the draft guideline produce by the Sentencing Council would have lead to an unacceptable two - tier justice system in which defendant be treat differently on the basis not of their crime , but of their racial , cultural or religious identity . in fact , the record will show that two - tier justice do exist for several hour , because this issue be manage so shambolically that the guidance come into effect ahead of its formal withdrawal . that be not justice — it be a betrayal of the fundamental principle of equality before the law . it would have happen under the watch of this Labour Government and this Lord Chancellor but for the intervention of the Opposition , and in particular the shadow Secretary of State for Justice . this Bill be necessary , but it be not sufficient . instead of act decisively to restore public confidence , after the Labour Government have be drag to this Chamber to act at all , they now bring forward a half measure — a meagre response that fall short of what it should be . that be why the opposition have table two important amendment . amendment 3 would ensure that in future , sentence guideline on pre - sentence report can not simply be issue by the Sentencing Council without democratic oversight , and would instead require the consent of the Secretary of State before come into force . why be that now necessary ? the Sentencing Council have prove itself not just in the initial measure it propose , but in its attitude and response towards parliamentary and public scrutiny , to be unable to sustain public confidence in its work in this area . it be one thing for a public body to possess operational independence and to seek to exercise that independence on a day - to - day basis ; it be quite something else for a public body to choose not to exercise good judgment and make use of that independence to act with restraint in the face of widespread Government , Opposition , parliamentary and public concern . while they do , of course , have their merit , the action of the Sentencing Council have bring to life the potential pitfall of unelected quango that be deaf to the concern of the people who pay their wage and the politician who represent they . while this whole affair have no doubt be humiliating for the Lord Chancellor and the Government , the damage to public confidence in the leadership of the Sentencing Council be just as great . despite what the hon . member for Eastbourne ( Josh Babarinde ) say in his remark on Second Reading , the Sentencing Council do not agree to pause the implementation of the guideline to allow for a period of reflection — it outright refuse to do so . he have misunderstand the sequence of event . the council pause only because we would have otherwise enter into a constitutionally unsustainable situation where people be be sentence in the court , with guideline be legislate against in Parliament through emergency legislation . it be that direct threat alone that cause the council to pause and demonstrate its lack of judgment . I be afraid that we must therefore act more broadly to constrain the Sentencing Council in future , pende any wholesale change that may be forthcoming . that be why the shadow Secretary of State put forward a Bill that would have take the necessary step to return accountability of the body through the Lord Chancellor while wholesale reform could be undertake . labour choose to oppose that Bill . today , it be out of scope for the Opposition to seek to introduce a similarly wide amendment , and we be therefore restrict to seek to at least restore accountability where we can in this field . the amendment would require that guideline on pre - sentence report draft by the council must be expressly approve by the Secretary of State before they come into force as definitive guideline — a basic safeguard of democratic accountability , ensure ministerial oversight on sensitive sentencing matter . without our amendment , history may repeat itself : the same council will be free to bring forward ideological framework that Ministers will be powerless to stop before the damage be do . have these guideline go unchallenged , we would have tilt sentencing base on identity politic , undermine public confidence in the entire system . our amendment would create a crucial safeguard , ensure that no future set of guideline in this field , at least , could bypass ministerial accountability . I encourage those on the Government Benches who have make clear that they wish to see accountability restore across the work of the Sentencing Council to vote in support of amendment 3 ; do otherwise would make clear that they be unwilling to follow through on their concern with action . amendment 4 would make clear that sentence guideline on pre - sentence report must not include consideration of a defendant ' s status as part of a group that have experience historical or intergenerational trauma . why be this necessary ? it would be deeply wrong to allow collective historical grievance to influence the sentencing of an individual today . this area be the late frontier of identity politic , with the public being tell that what should be give disproportionate focus in all sort of domain — that what matter more than what be happen today , with the whole variety of challenge face people of all creed and colour — be , in fact , the past . sentencing must focus on the action , culpability and direct personal circumstance of the defendant before the court , not on sweeping assumption base on historical event . we be not able in this Bill to legislate across all the working of the criminal justice system as much as we might like to . the event of the past few month have show that what have happen with these guideline be not a one - off . there be a creep , systemic attempt to inject identity politic into our judicial process , bail decision , probation , and even training material . if we do not confront this now , it will embed itself deeply and deep into the foundation of our system . it be fundamental to the rule of law that justice look to the individual , not to the group . it be fundamental that we deal in evidence , not in ideology . take together , our amendment be design to strengthen this Bill , to ensure that it be not merely a reactive measure , but , in this narrow area at least , provide last protection of the principle that justice must be blind , and must be see to be blind . the public expect justice to be equal , not preferential . our amendment will go far in help to secure that . we be in this Chamber today because the Lord Chancellor be not pay attention , and be then humiliate by the recalcitrant leadership of an unelected body turn its face against parliamentary and public concern . the Government should have act decisively and immediately and we provide they with an opportunity to do so , but they fail to take it . even now , we be face with a Bill that do not do the full job . our amendment be close the gap between what the Lord Chancellor be offer and what be necessary — decisiveness in place of timidity . I urge the whole House and the Government to support they . it be a pleasure to serve with you in the Chair , Mrs Cummins . I wish to thank hon and right hon . member for the point that have be make and the amendment that have be discuss , which I shall respond to in turn . I shall speak briefly to each clause and then remind we of why we be here debate this Bill . in the last Parliament , the Sentencing Council consult on a revise imposition guideline , which be due to come into effect on 1 April . the revised guideline include additional guidance on when court should request pre - sentence report . it note that pre - sentence report will " normally be consider necessary " for certain offender , include those from an ethnic , cultural or faith minority . the " normally be consider necessary " be replace with " may be particularly important " , which the previous Government very much welcome . this Government note that a pre - sentence report be necessary . they agree that disparity exist in the criminal justice system . the reason for that be unclear , but this be a matter for the Government , accountable to Parliament and to the ballot box , to address . in effect , the revised guideline could have lead to judge decide whether to request a pre - sentence report base on an offender ' s faith or the colour of their skin . the Lord Chancellor have be clear that this would be unacceptable , as it risk differential treatment . single out one group over another undermine the idea that we all stand equal before the law — a principle that have be in the foundation of our justice system for century , and that be why she act immediately and quickly . by prevent the Sentencing Council make guidance on pre - sentence report with reference to personal characteristic , this Bill help to ensure equality before the law . clause 1 amend section 120 of the Coroners and Justice Act 2009 . it provide that sentencing guideline may not include provision frame by reference to different personal characteristic , include race , religion , belief or cultural background . therefore , any exist guideline that make reference to different personal characteristic will cease to have effect and the Sentencing Council be prevent from make such provision in guideline in the future . the change make by this clause prevent the Sentencing Council make policy about when pre - sentence report should be obtain that risk differential treatment before the law , and which could undermine public confidence in the criminal justice system . the sentencing code be clear that court should obtain pre - sentence report unless , in the circumstance of the case , it be unnecessary . the clause do not affect the independent judiciary ' s ability to make decision base on the personal circumstance of an individual offender , or determine where pre - sentence report be necessary or desirable . nor do it stop the Sentencing Council from advise , in general term , that pre - sentence report be seek in case where the court would benefit from an assessment of an offender ' s personal circumstance . pre - sentence report , as the Minister have set out , be important in consider punishment that can address offend behaviour and help reduce the likelihood of reoffende . but , very often , probation be stretch so thin that officer do not have time to complete they . what will the Minister do to ensure that , where a pre - sentence report be require , probation have the capacity to do that important work ? my hon . friend echo much of what the hon . member for Eastbourne ( Josh Babarinde ) pick up on early . probation be a significant part of the landscape . that be why we be onboarde 1 , 300 more probation officer over the next year . the Chair of the Justice Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Hammersmith and Chiswick ( Andy Slaughter ) , raise issue about the impact of the guideline on exist guideline . we expect that other guideline will be affect by the Bill , include offence - specific guideline relate to mitigate and aggravating factor , which set out guidance about pre - sentence report for specific cohort . we will continue work with the Sentencing Council on the implementation of the Bill . we have have constructive discussion and will continue to do so . as my hon . friend the Member for Hammersmith and Chiswick reference , the Bill ' s explanatory note point out , exist precedent be not change where the court have determine that pre - sentence report be necessary or desirable . such case include : Thompson , where the Court of Appeal recently emphasise the importance of report in sentence pregnant woman or woman who have recently give birth ; Meanley , in which the court reference the value of pre - sentence report for young defendant ; and Kurmekaj , where the defendant have a traumatic upbringing , a vulnerability and be a victim of modern slavery . the Bill narrowly focus on the issue at hand , put beyond doubt the principle that we all stand equal before the law of the land . clause 2 be concern with detail about how the Bill will be enact . the Bill will apply to England and Wales only , and its measure will come into force on the day after it pass . the Bill may be cite as the Sentencing Guidelines ( Pre - sentence Reports ) Act 2025 once enact . I thank the right hon . and learn Member for Kenilworth and Southam ( Sir Jeremy Wright ) for table his amendment and for the very thoughtful and comprehensive way in which he deal with they . amendment 1 and 2 would replace the term " personal characteristic " with " demographic cohort " to describe the type of provision about pre - sentence report in sentence guideline that the Bill will prohibit . the Government have consider the propose change to the wording very carefully and would like to take the opportunity to briefly explain the Government ' s approach . the Government ' s objective be to help ensure equality before the law so that offender be treat accord to their own particular circumstance and not by virtue of their membership of a particular group . to ensure that the Bill prevent sentence guideline about pre - sentence report include provision frame by reference to any specific personal characteristic of an offender , we have use the term " personal characteristic " . the Bill set out that personal characteristic include race , religion or belief , or cultural background . however , this be not an exhaustive list . we accept that personal characteristic and personal circumstance have , over the year , be elide in different court judgment , and we be clear that it be intend to cover a wide range of characteristic include sex , gender identity , physical disability and pregnancy status . the right hon . and learn Member for Kenilworth and Southam have rightly note that the term " demographic cohort " be use in the Bill ' s explanatory note . however , the use of the term be not intend to narrow the definition of personal characteristic , and I believe it do not , though I note that he believe that it might do . rather , it be a different term use to describe individual who share certain personal characteristic . I accept that the Minister be try to give we clarity , so for the purpose of clarity be it the Government ' s view that all personal characteristic can also be describe as personal circumstance ? no , that be not the Government ' s view . " personal characteristic " be a term that be understand and apply in other context , whereas " demographic cohort " be a term that , on balance , the Government feel be more imprecise and would ultimately need to be define with reference to a group with share personal characteristic . therefore , I understand where the right hon . and learn Gentleman be come from , but from the Government ' s point of view , the amendment do not add anything to the drafting of the Bill and risk cause further confusion . as he point out in his helpful contribution , there be a danger of get into detailed semantic , which probably do not help any of we . I take on board the Minister ' s warning , and I be not sure whether this will make it any well . I think he be say that the term demographic cohort be a subset of personal characteristic , but personal characteristic be not the same as personal circumstance . be that right ? if we have use the phrase demographic cohort , we would have to define what that mean , whereas personal characteristic be a phrase that already have a level of definition and be therefore prefer by the Government . I turn to the similar issue raise by my hon . friend the Member for Hammersmith and Chiswick . we carefully consider whether the Bill should be narrow than refer to personal characteristic — for example , an offender be from a cultural minority — but in the end we feel that be not helpful . as such , while I be grateful to the right hon . and learn Member for Kenilworth and Southam for suggest alternative wording , the Government remain of the view that , have consider it carefully , the term personal characteristic be the most appropriate way of capture the issue raise by the guideline . will the Minister clarify the point in relation to pregnancy ? he say — it be in the explanatory note — that it would be right for a sentencer to follow Thompson and order a pre - sentence report where a woman be pregnant or have recently give birth , but that , follow the passage of the Bill , it will be incorrect for the Sentencing Council to make recommendation along those line for sentencer to follow . I do not quite see the difference . the Court of Appeal have make it clear , and , as my hon . Friend say , it be right to follow Thompson in those circumstance . while I be grateful to the right hon . and learn Member for Kenilworth and Southam for raise and rightly explore this issue in Committee , I hope that he will not press the amendment to a vote . amendment 3 , table by the right hon . member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) on behalf of the official Opposition , would require the Sentencing Council to obtain the Secretary of State ' s approval before issue any sentencing guideline about pre - sentence report . again , I reference the helpful word of the right hon . and learn Member for Kenilworth and Southam , who say we should tread carefully in this territory and that the separation of power need to be very much respected . therefore , while carefully consider the case for mandate that the Sentencing Council obtain the Secretary of State ' s approval , I be not persuade that that be appropriate at this particular time . as the Lord Chancellor have set out , this case have highlight that a potential democratic deficit . that be why we be currently assess the Sentencing Council ' s wide role and power for develop sentencing guideline , with recent development and imposition guideline in mind . I gently suggest to the Minister that if there be a risk of a democratic deficit , surely the thing to do be to act now in the short term and unpick it later if he feel he have overreach . we certainly do not feel that we have overreach . we be act in a timely and effective way . as the debate have demonstrate , there be issue of detail that need to be properly explore . the Lord Chancellor have do the right thing in announce a review that will have a look at thing in proper time ; that will take place . give the special role of the Sentencing Council and the significant policy and constitutional issue involve , it be right that we take the time to consider whether more fundamental reform be need , alongside consider wide recommendation that come out of the independent sentencing review . I be not convinced that it will be proper to deal with the issue now through this fast - track legislation , nor be I convince that legislate in a piecemeal way would be helpful , note that the amendment of the right hon . member for Newark apply just to sentence guideline about pre - sentence report when there may be other thing that we need to look at . to be clear , we be keep all option on the table and be willing to legislate far in a more comprehensive way if necessary . I therefore urge the opposition not to press this amendment . amendment 4 , also table in the right hon . member ' s name , would prevent the Sentencing Council from frame sentencing guideline about pre - sentence report with reference to group that may have experience trauma from historical racism or discrimination . while we have carefully consider the case for add this restriction to the Bill , we be not persuade that it be necessary . we have take a general approach in the Bill to prevent sentencing guideline about pre - sentence report from be frame by reference to any personal characteristic of an offender . the Bill specify that personal characteristic include race , religion or cultural background , but that be not an exhaustive list . more widely , I appreciate that the right hon . member for Newark have take a keen interest in wide guidance across prison and probation that touch on different experience , include those specify in the amendment . the Government be absolutely clear on the need to ensure equality before the law . wide work be go on to review relevant policy and guidance , and we will update practice where necessary . I therefore urge the opposition not to press the amendment . new clause 1 would require the Secretary of State to arrange an independent review into the restriction the Bill place on the Sentencing Council ' s ability regard pre - sentence report , which be frame by reference to offender ' different personal characteristic . I thank the hon . member for Eastbourne for table the new clause . although we have carefully consider the case for such a review and I agree that it be important to carefully think through what the Bill ' s effect , I be not persuade that a review be necessary because the direct change make by the Bill be very limited in nature . to recap , the Bill help protect equality before the law by ensure no offender receive differential treatment regard pre - sentence report base on their personal characteristic . that reflect a fundamental principle that do not need to be review . the Bill do that by restrict the power of the Sentencing Council to issue sentence guideline about pre - sentence report . it will prevent guideline from , for example , create a presumption around whether a pre - sentence report should be obtain base on an offender ' s personal characteristic , rather than all the circumstance of the offender before the court . for the avoidance of doubt , this Government support the use of pre - sentence report and we have publicly commit to create more capacity in the probation service to ensure it be able to do the valuable work that include prepare pre - sentence report . we be also happy to continue to work with the hon . member for Eastbourne on disparity in the criminal justice system and the use of pre - sentence report more generally . we fully support the increase use of psr in our court . psr include an assessment of the offender ' s behaviour and the risk they pose , and the recommendation for sentencing option . it be a valuable tool , as many member have say , in help to ensure a sentence be tailor to an individual offender and their circumstance . equality before the law be a fundamental principle of our criminal justice system . it be the Government ' s policy and belief that that should be protect . I again welcome the contribution from the Mother of the House , my right hon . friend the Member for Hackney North and Stoke Newington ( Ms Abbott ) , support by the hon . member for Brighton Pavilion ( Si â n Berry ) and for Birmingham Perry Barr ( Ayoub Khan ) , to keep our foot to the fire on tackle disproportionality . I confirm again that this Government take very seriously tackle disproportionality in the criminal justice system . that be why the Lord Chancellor have commission a review of the datum on disparity in the justice system to well understand the driver of the problem . I know that my right hon . friend do not need my encouragement to keep go on this one , so I look forward to she continue to hold we to account as we move forward . I will also be clear on what the Bill do not do , to underscore its limited change . nothing in the Bill restrict the court ' s pre - exist ability to request pre - sentence report , nor the Sentencing Council from advise in general term that a pre - sentence report should be seek where a further assessment of the offender ' s personal circumstance would be beneficial to the court . the Bill do not affect Court of Appeal case law about the type of case where pre - sentence report be necessary or desirable , as we have cover previously . there be recent relevant case law cover vulnerable defendant , pregnant woman and woman who have recently give birth , and young defendant . furthermore , the Bill will not prevent judge from request pre - sentence report in case where they ordinarily would , include in appropriate case involve , for example , pregnant woman , as well as those involve young people or domestic abuse . I welcome the comment from my hon . friend the Member for Chipping Barnet ( Dan Tomlinson ) on those issue . with such consideration in mind , the Government do not consider the propose review to be necessary . however , as the Lord Chancellor have set out , she be carry out a review into the wide role and power of the Sentencing Council , so I can reassure the hon . member for Eastbourne that there will be further opportunity to discuss issue surround the Sentencing Council in the House . I therefore hope that he will withdraw the new clause . I call Sir Jeremy Wright to wind up . I think — in gratitude to all those who have speak — that we have get to a place where the Minister have tell the House that there be some territory , which at the moment be be describe as " personal characteristic " , into which the sentencing guideline may not trespass . that be not the same as specifically refer to someone ' s personal circumstance , and be a broad area than the question of whether they be a member of a particular demographic group . I simply say to the Minister that , before this Bill complete its progress , he and his departmental colleague may want to clarify what specific territory the Sentencing Council can not now construct guideline about , so that we all — include the Sentencing Council — understand where we stand . I be grateful to he for the explanation he have be able to give today , and in consequence I be content to withdraw the amendment ; I beg to ask leave to withdraw the amendment . amendment , by leave , withdraw . amendment propose : 3 , page 1 , line 7 , at end insert — " ( 2A ) after subsection ( 7 ) insert — ' ( 7a ) in the case of guideline within subsection ( 4 ) about pre - sentence report , the Council must , after make any amendment of the guideline which it consider appropriate , obtain the consent of the Secretary of State before issue sentence guideline as definitive guideline . ( 7b ) in any case to which subsection ( 7a ) apply , the Secretary of State may — ( a ) consent to the issuing of guideline as definitive guideline , ( b ) refuse consent for the issuing of guideline as definitive guideline , or ( c ) direct the Council to issue the guideline in an amend form as definitive guideline . ( 7C ) where the Secretary of State have consent to the issuing of guideline under subsection ( 7b ) ( a ) or have direct the Council to issue guideline in an amend form under subsection ( 7b ) ( c ) , the Council must issue the guideline as definitive guideline in the appropriate form ' . " — ( Dr Mullan . ) question put , that the amendment be make . Jim Allister Stuart Anderson Edward Argar Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Burghart James Cartlidge Geoffrey Clifton - Brown John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Harriet Cross Gareth Davies Mims davy David Davis Charlie Dewhirst Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Luke Evans Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Louie French Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier John Glen Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Paul Holmes Neil Hudson Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Esther McVey Robbie Moore Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Andrew Murrison Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Rebecca Paul Chris Philp Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Andrew Rosindell Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke Greg Smith Julian Smith Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Mel Stride Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Nick Timothy Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers John Whittingdale James Wild Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Rebecca Smith Jerome Mayhew Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Sadik Al - Hassan Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Paula Barker Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Si â n Berry Clive Betts Rachel Blake Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Beccy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Nicholas Dakin Emily Darlington Ann davy Paul Davies Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Ben Goldsborough John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Fabian Hamilton Carolyn Harris Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume Natasha iron Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Ayoub Khan Stephen Kinnock Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Ben Lake Peter Lamb Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Lola McEvoy Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Frank McNally Llinos Medi Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Abtisam Mohamed Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Alex Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Matthew Pennycook David Pinto - Duschinsky Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Andrew Ranger Joani Reid Martin Rhodes Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Tim Roca Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Liz Saville - Roberts Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens will Stone Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Dan Tomlinson Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Chris Ward Paul Waugh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler Katie White Nadia Whittome Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Anna McMorrin Taiwo Owatemi the House divide : Ayes 86 , Noes 222 . question accordingly negative . Amendment propose : 4 , page 1 , line 13 , at end insert — " ( d ) status as part of a group that may have experience trauma from experience of racism or discrimination — ( i ) inter - generationally and relay to the defendant , or ( ii ) as a result of important historical event which may have have a great impact on those from specific group and culture . " — ( Dr Mullan . ) this amendment would ensure that sentence guideline about pre - sentence report can not include a defendant ' s status as part of a group , particularly not if this involve consider event that may not have impact the defendant personally . question put , that the amendment be make . Jim Allister Stuart Anderson Edward Argar Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Burghart James Cartlidge Geoffrey Clifton - Brown John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Harriet Cross Gareth Davies Mims davy David Davis Charlie Dewhirst Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Luke Evans Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Louie French Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier John Glen Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Paul Holmes Neil Hudson Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Alicia Kearns Katie Lam John Lamont Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Esther McVey Robbie Moore Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Andrew Murrison Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Rebecca Paul Chris Philp Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Andrew Rosindell Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke Greg Smith Julian Smith Ben Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Nick Timothy Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers John Whittingdale James Wild Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Jerome Mayhew Rebecca Smith Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Paula Barker Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Si â n Berry Clive Betts Rachel Blake Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Beccy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Nicholas Dakin Emily Darlington Ann davy Paul Davies Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Ben Goldsborough John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Fabian Hamilton Carolyn Harris Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume Natasha iron Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Ayoub Khan Stephen Kinnock Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Ben Lake Peter Lamb Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Lola McEvoy Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Frank McNally Llinos Medi Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Abtisam Mohamed Iqbal Mohamed Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Alex Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Matthew Pennycook Bridget Phillipson David Pinto - Duschinsky Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Andrew Ranger Joani Reid Martin Rhodes Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Tim Roca Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Liz Saville - Roberts Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens will Stone Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Stephen Timms Dan Tomlinson Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Chris Ward Paul Waugh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler Katie White Nadia Whittome Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Taiwo Owatemi Anna McMorrin the Committee divide : Ayes 88 , Noes 226 . question accordingly negative . clause 1 order to stand part of the Bill . clause 2 order to stand part of the Bill . the Deputy Speaker resume the Chair . Bill report , without amendment . third read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read the third time . let I first take this opportunity to thank all member of this House who have speak in support of this important Bill . I be particularly grateful for the support express on Second Reading , as well as to all the hon . and right hon . member who have contribute to this afternoon ' s Committee proceeding . it be not yet a month since the Sentencing Council ' s imposition guideline be due to come into effect . the Lord Chancellor follow up her concern immediately with action . as member from all part of the House have acknowledge , have the Government not act quickly to introduce this Bill , the guideline would have risk differential treatment before the law in this country . I put on record my thank to the Sentencing Council and in particular its chair , Lord Justice William Davis , for the constructive conversation on this issue and for pause the guideline while Parliament have its say , as it be do today . I also thank official who have work on this Bill , include Andrew Waldren , Stephen Toal , Jack Hickey , James Metter , Clare Taylor , as well as the Bill manager , Katherine Ridley , and my excellent private secretary , Emily Brougham . this government strongly support the use of pre - sentence report , which judge be require by law to obtain except in circumstance where they consider such a report unnecessary . we also acknowledge that there be disparity within the criminal justice system that must be address . however , those be matter of policy , and it be right for the Government to seek a policy response to these issue . that be why we bring this Bill forward , and I commend it to the House . it be a pleasure to speak on behalf of his Majesty ' s opposition on Third Reading , follow on directly from the Committee of the whole House , where Government Members reject our amendment to strengthen the Bill . we now know the strength of the appetite on the Labour Benches to tackle this challenge properly and comprehensively here and now : there be not one . in truth , we know that already . the Government have an opportunity week ago to restore democratic accountability to the Sentencing Council through the private Member ' s Bill of the shadow Secretary of State for Justice , my right hon . friend the Member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) . they reject that opportunity , and early today they reject even the more modest strengthening we propose . that should not be a surprise . labour have a Prime Minister who be first and foremost a lawyer , not a leader . he be a lawyer steep in the philosophy of secure political change through legal activism . that be the very approach that the Lord Chancellor have be force to bring in emergency legislation to curtail . that approach be why the appetite for proper action be so limited . the legislation before the House be a fig leaf to hide the truth that a Labour party lead by Keir Starmer will always have to be drag kick and scream to tackle the judicial activism that he have long champion — [ interruption . ] order . the shadow Minister must be hear . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker ; they do not want to hear it . the root cause of the issue be that the Prime Minister appoint an Attorney General — the Government ' s own Law Officer — who be steep in judicial activism . the Prime Minister himself practise in a chamber that relish it and wholeheartedly support its expansion case by case . for anyone interested in a treatise on the risk of this approach — from someone much more qualified than I , as I be sure the House will agree — I encourage they to listen to Lord Sumption ' s Reith lecture . his analysis on the divide between matter that should properly be the domain of politic and matter for law could not be more pertinent . he say : " it be a vice of some lawyer that they talk about law as if it be a self - contain subject , something to be examine like a laboratory speciman in a test tube , but law do not occupy a world of its own . it be part of a large system of public decision making . the rest be politic . the politic of minister and legislator of political party , of medium and pressure group , and of the wide electorate . " Lord Sumption go on to say : " the Courts have develop a broad concept of the … law which greatly enlarge their own constitutional role . they have claim a wide supervisory authority over other organ of the State . they have inch their way towards a notion of fundamental law override the ordinary process of political decision - making , and these thing have inevitably carry they into the realm of legislative and ministerial policy . to adopt the famous dictum of the german military theorist Clausewitz about war , law be now the continuation of politic by other mean . " be in no doubt : this whole sorry episode have be an exquisite further example of that mentality , this time from the Sentencing Council and its member as part of the wide judiciary establishment . the Lord Chancellor have fail to act decisively today . if she continue to refrain from take decisive action , we will be here again and again , with the opposition make sure , on each and every step of the way , that voter know where the sympathy of the Labour party and its leader lie : not with the ordinary , law - abide citizen who expect equal treatment under the law and the democratically elect politician of this country decide on policy , but with activist and campaign lawyer who want to wrestle control from they . the Bill be barely adequate — barely . we will not oppose it , because it be well than nothing — and at least it tell the public everything that they need to know about those who sit on the Government Benches , and about the mentality of the man lead they . question put , that the Bill be now read the third time . Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Paula Barker Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Hilary Benn Clive Betts Rachel Blake Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Feryal Clark Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Nicholas Dakin Emily Darlington Paul Davies Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Ben Goldsborough John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Fabian Hamilton Carolyn Harris Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume Natasha iron Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Lamb Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Lola McEvoy Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Frank McNally Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Abtisam Mohamed Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Alex Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Matthew Pennycook Bridget Phillipson Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Andrew Ranger Martin Rhodes Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Tim Roca Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens will Stone Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Stephen Timms Dan Tomlinson Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Chris Ward Paul Waugh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler Katie White Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Anna McMorrin Taiwo Owatemi Si â n Berry Carla Denyer Iqbal Mohamed Ayoub Khan Ellie Chowns the House divide : Ayes 214 , Noes 3 . question accordingly agree to . Bill read the third time and pass . licence and Licensing I beg to move , that the draft Licensing Act 2003 ( victory in Europe Day Licensing Hours ) Order 2025 , which be lay before this House on 23 April , be approve . next week mark the 80th anniversary of victory in Europe Day , which be of course a hugely significant and consequential moment in our country ' s history . after more than five long year , during the first of which we stand alone , on 8 May 1945 Prime Minister Churchill proclaim to cheer crowd in Whitehall , just a few hundred yard from this Chamber : " this be your victory . it be the victory of the cause of freedom in every land . " as the 75th anniversary commemoration involve public gathering be , sadly , cancel in 2020 due to the covid outbreak , the upcoming milestone be a precious chance to pay tribute to that great generation and hear the story of those who live through the war . at this point , I want to refer to my father , Eric Johnson , who serve in the Royal Navy in the second world war , and my mother , Ruth Johnson , who work in munition factory . many people will want to come together with friend and family to mark the occasion , and to raise a glass to those who fight for our freedom — the soldier , sailor and airmen from the United Kingdom and across the Commonwealth , as well as our ally in Europe , and also those who contribute to the war effort at home , include civilian work in the emergency service , transport , the home guard , the warden and those work in factory and on the land . twenty three Members of this House and 20 member of the other place give their life in world war two , and I know that Mr Speaker be work to mark that . we should celebrate the role of this place and our wartime coalition in save democracy beyond our shore from what Winston Churchill call " the abyss of a new dark age " . — [ Official Report , 18 June 1940 ; Vol . 362 , c . 60 . ] commemorative event will be hold in many location during the anniversary week , include : a military procession from Whitehall to Buckingham Palace ; street party across the country on the bank holiday ; evensong at Manchester cathedral , follow by a celebratory ringing of bell ; a celebratory picnic at Cardiff castle ; a live history event at Sterling castle in Scotland ; a series of commemoration event at Belfast city hall ; and a service at Westminster Abbey , which will serve as both an act of share remembrance and a celebration of the end of the war . VE Day fall within the annual Commonwealth War Graves Commission ' s War Graves Week , and the commission be mark the 80th anniversary of VE Day with the " For Evermore " tour , a mobile exhibition travel the UK sharing story of those who die in world war two . the commission be also hold a special ve Day concert on 2 May at the historic Coventry cathedral , which be rebuild after be destroy by bomb in 1940 . a concert will also take place at Horse Guards Parade to mark the end of commemoration on 8 May . as a Member of Parliament who represent Kingston upon Hull , a city that be routinely refer to anonymously in the second world war as a " north - east coastal town " despite bomb comparable to the east end of London , Hull ' s celebration for VE Day will be accompany by a desire to see great national recognition of the effect of the blitz on my city than we have have over the course of the past 80 year . hull will have a memorial service at Hull cenotaph ; the Hull History Centre will show free screening of archive footage from VE Day in 1945 of the celebration that take place in Hull ; and in Cottingham there will be a 1940s music singalong at Cottingham civic hall . it promise to be a special atmosphere in many community and the order will allow people to celebrate for long , should they so wish . section 172 of the Licensing Act 2003 allow the Secretary of State to make a licensing hour order to allow licensed premise to open for specified , extend hour on occasion of exceptional international , national or local significance . by way of background , past occasion where the then Home Secretary have exercise this power to extend licensing hour have include : the King ' s coronation ; her late Majesty the Queen ' s platinum and diamond jubilee celebration ; the royal wedding in 2011 and 2018 ; and , most recently , the semi - final and final of the man ' s UEFA european championship last year . the Government consider the 80th anniversary of VE Day to be an occasion of national significance and , as such , worthy of the propose extension before the House today . turn to the practical detail , the order make provision to relax licensing arrangement in England and Wales , and allow licensed premise to extend their opening hour on Thursday the 8 May for a further two hour , from 11 pm until 1 am the follow morning . a truncated consultation be conduct with key stakeholder who be supportive of the extension , and we take the view that the order will not bring about any significant crime and disorder due to the nature of the event . however , we recognise that there may be implication for police resource , and we will continue to work with stakeholder to mitigate any concern around the impact . as well as enable celebration , the extension have the add potential benefit of provide a welcome boost to the hospitality sector . I hope that member across the House will agree that this order represent an appropriate use of the power confer on the Home Secretary by the Licensing Act 2003 . to conclude , this extension reflect our commitment to remember what be a truly momentous event — our fine hour — and to celebrate those who defend our country , liberate Europe and secure peace . with that , I commend this order to the House . I call the shadow Minister . I hope it will be apparent that all member of the House strongly support this motion . certainly those of we on the opposition Benches welcome the opportunity for pub and other licensed venue across the country to stay open late to commemorate VE day without incur any cost to extend their licence . as time pass and those with direct memory of this momentous day grow old , it be critical that we continue to commemorate and remember the experience of those who sacrifice so much and who in so many case give everything for our nation and for other ' freedom . we must celebrate the fact that their sacrifice be not in vain , but lead to a great achievement , and recognise the effort and endurance that overcome immense struggle . I hope I speak for all member when I say that we be incredibly honour to represent those who serve in world war two and their family , friend and love one who survive to this day . VE day be rightly a day for we all to share in celebration . as Churchill say on 8 May 1945 , " my dear friend , this be your hour . this be not a victory of a party or of any class . it ' s a victory for the great british nation as a whole . " it be only appropriate that we continue to reflect the evergreen truth and celebrate VE day as we should : unify as a country , proud of our history of determination and of sacrifice . the motion to extend licensing hour appear exceptionally appropriate . not only be a national holiday declare in Britain on 8 May 1945 , but it be say that on that morning , Churchill — with his focus very much on the real priority — gain assurance from the Ministry of Food that there would be sufficient beer available in the capital . meanwhile , the Board of Trade announce that people could purchase red , white and blue bunt without use ration coupon . we share that same spirit today by approve this motion , which I hope will allow people to fully and memorably commemorate this truly historic day . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I speak on behalf of my party when I say that we join everybody in support this order , which will provide community the opportunity to celebrate in many different way across the country . whether it be street party , private gathering or , indeed , go down the pub , people will want to mark the occasion in their own way and ultimately honour those who give such sacrifice towards for our country . they fight for our democracy , our freedom and our way of life 80 year ago , and that should never be forget . of course , the order will also provide a boost to our local hospitality industry . we have many great pub in Carshalton and Wallington , and I be go to try to name they all , if I can . we have the Butterchurn , the Railway Tavern , the Hope , the Sun , the Racehorse , the Greyhound and the Windsor Castle . we have the Coach and Horses , the Woodman , and the Cryer Arts . we have the Duke ' s Head , the Whispering Moon , the Star , and the Harvest Home — I be a hostage to fortune here , I know . we also have the Dog House and the Plough , and we have the Jack & Jill , which be occasionally close , but we be hope to keep it open permanently . I will not say I be go to go to all those pub on VE day , but I do try to go to many of they as often as I can . finally , I would just like to say a personal thank because of something else that be happen that day . I be sure the Prime Minister will be particularly pleased to know that Tottenham be play in Europe that night , and that if we win — if we get victory in Europe of our own — then we will be through to the Europa league final . I be sure many Spurs fan will appreciate the opportunity to stay out a little bit long that evening , too , so I want to thank the Government for introduce this order . it be utterly appropriate to mark the occasion — it be in the national interest , and it be in my personal interest , too . question put and agree to . crime and Policing Bill ( Ways and Means ) Motion make , and question propose , that , for the purpose of any Act result from the Crime and Policing Bill , it be expedient to authorise the payment of sum into the Consolidated Fund . — ( Dame Diana Johnson . ) as we have say from the outset , we will support measure that improve police and ensure that those who commit crime face the full weight of the law . as such , we will support this finance motion as there be a great number of thing in the Crime and Policing Bill with which we agree . indeed , as we have point out on a number of occasion , significant element of the legislation be effectively carry over from the Criminal Justice Bill in the last Parliament . although there be area with which we disagree , we must ensure that , follow the passage of this legislation , the police have the resource they need . that say , there be two element that should be acknowledge . first , give that this be a matter of finance , the settlement for police that we have see from the Government be clearly cause challenge for the police . we have already see the Metropolitan police announce cut in officer number , and we be warn that 1 , 800 officer may be at risk . I be concerned that the number may be even high . the Government must ensure that we do not see the decrease in officer number that many be concern about and which would undermine the measure in the Bill . separately , on the matter of the Bill itself , although it be not an issue for today ' s vote , I ask member of this House to carefully consider the proposal that be put in front of they in the future , include on Report . I hope that member will have the opportunity to vote on sensible amendment , which we firmly believe be in the good interest of the country . rather than merely follow the whim of a party , I ask member to consider what be right and wrong for our country , for law enforcement and for victim . when there have be decade of historical abuse , particularly in the form of rape gang , there must be thorough investigation — with no stone leave unturned . therefore , I hope this motion will not only cover what be currently in the Bill , but provide resource for a national statutory inquiry into rape gang . I be grateful to the shadow Minister for her support , but on the financial settlement to police force this year , it be worth say that there be up to £ 19 . 6 billion go into policing . she will be well aware of the additional funding go in to support neighbourhood policing , which we want to restore after the decimation that happen under the previous Conservative Government . the shadow Minister can make her point , but it be this Government who be commit to funding police and support police officer . we be get more police officer on our high street , and in our community and local area . I know that she have only recently join the House , but 14 year of history explain why we have find ourselves in the position where police force be in challenge circumstance with their finance . this Government be commit to support policing , and the financial settlement this year do exactly that . question put and agree to . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) , National Health Service that the draft Health and Social Care Information Standards ( Procedure ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 25 March , be approve . — ( Sir Nicholas Dakin . ) question agree to . occupy Palestinian Territories Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Sir Nicholas Dakin . ) it be a great privilege to have secure this Adjournment debate on Government support for the people in the occupied Palestinian Territories , but I regret immensely the need to do so . I , like most of the world , be horrify by Hamas ' s attack on Israel and Hamas ' s killing and kidnapping of israeli citizen . I support , and continue to support , Israel ' s right to self - defence in response to that attack . I also know that today — at least when the sun set — will be Yom ha ' atzmaut . that be Israel ' s Independence Day , when many Israelis will be celebrate their country . none the less , I be here today to ask three principal question of the Government . first , what more can they do to support the people of Palestine ? secondly , what can the british public , particularly my constituent in Newcastle upon Tyne Central and West , do as individual and as a community to support the people of Palestine ? thirdly , if the Government believe that there be nothing more we as a Government , as a nation or as individual can do to support the Palestinians , could the Minister please inform the House , so that we may so inform our constituent ? I say I have three question , but in actual fact I have 12 question for my hon . friend the Minister , and that I will be count they as I ask they and as she reply ; this be a very important subject , and there be a lot to cover . the north - east of England may seem far away from Gaza and the west bank — it may even seem far away from London to some — but 24 hour a day the consequence of Israel ' s humanitarian blockade and use of weapon of modern warfare against civilian play out on family television and social medium platform in the north - east , as it should . my constituent watch as the body of a five - year - old girl be pull from beneath the wreckage of a car she be ride in with her family — a car that the Israel Defence Forces attack with the most powerful weapon of modern warfare . my constituent watch a 20 - day - old baby in Gaza , wrap in a blanket by that baby ' s hysterical relative , freeze to death in a sub - tropical country — the fifth child to die from hypothermia in Gaza in six day last winter . my constituent watch one by one the death of the 100 palestinian child the Israel Defence Forces kill or maim every day in the 10 day from 21 to 31 March . I know that my constituent see this because they stop I in the street in Newcastle — in Grainger Market when I be buy my vegetable , on the West Road when I be visit local business , when I play bingo in Blakelaw , when I visit cultural centre in Benwell and Scotswood , support community centre in Fenham and knock on door in Lemington . they ask I , " what can we do to stop the suffering we see ? " I also know this because they write to I . one write : " I kindly request that you please advocate for the people of Gaza in Parliament , as they too have the right to defend themselves , they too have the right to feel safe , to live in peace and enjoy freedom and liberty without occupation , colonisation or terrorism . " another say : " as a jewish constituent of yours , I be very concerned about our Government ' s relative silence regard Israel ' s abandonment of the Gaza ceasefire agreement , broker by Qatar and Egypt . it be utterly deplorable that Israel be once again slaughter Gazan civilian . " I quote another constituent : " what be the Government do to stop the killing of palestinian people ? " another write : " we be witness the most horrific of nightmare unfold . trap . starve . bomb . surround by israeli force , with many of those who try to flee be shoot at . Palestinians in north Gaza be live under a suffocating siege . child be be bomb when they play on street corner . in central Gaza , people be be burn alive in tent that be make to protect they . the UK must act urgently to protect Palestinians from extermination in Gaza . " finally , a constituent say : " last week , a new UN report detail Israel ' s sexual and reproductive violence : like the killing of pregnant woman , the rape of male detainee , the destruction of an IVF clinic with its 4 , 000 embryo . wage war on Palestinians ' ability to reproduce be term ' genocidal act ' . last week , Israel ' s environment Minister declare the ' only solution for the Gaza strip be to empty it of Gazans ' . I could go on as it seem there be limitless example of other such act . how can these action so document , evidence and confess to — facilitate by western weapon and diplomatic support — continue ? no one in UK politic or medium circle can plausibly say , ' I do not know what be really happen ' . " I have to intervene , because my hon . friend ' s experience be the same as those I be have with my constituent . they be continuously ask I what we be do to stop this bloodshed — the killing of woman and child that be carry on . when our diplomacy and negotiation be not have any effect on Israel and , I have to say , the United States , who our ally , for how long be we go to continue to wait for Israel to act to stop the bloodshed before we take further action that can have some effect ? I thank my hon . friend for his intervention . I be pleased , though not surprised , to hear that the people of Wolverhampton West and the people of Newcastle upon Tyne Central and West , as well as people across our country , have a similar response to the horrific act and suffer they be see . as I will set out in my remark , my objective be to ask — indeed , to demand — what more we can do , and will do , to ensure that the suffering come to an end . the example that I read out be just a minute sample of what my constituent write and say to I . I have have hundred and hundred of email , letter and exchange on the street of Newcastle . I emphasise that while many of the constituent who raise issue be muslim or of muslim heritage , many more be not . many Christians be particularly appal by the israeli Government ' s Palm Sunday attack on the al - Ahli hospital in Gaza , run by the anglican diocese of Jerusalem — as a statement from the House of Bishops , support by the Right Reverend the Lord Bishop of Newcastle Helen - Ann Hartley , have emphasise . that be why I be here : to address and demand action in relation to the horror and despair my constituent feel about the consequence of the israeli Government ' s blockade on humanitarian aid to Gaza and the israeli Defence Forces ' killing of palestinian civilian , particularly child , in Gaza and the west bank . my constituent simply do not believe that we as a nation , a people and a lead voice in the world community be helpless to affect in any way the behaviour of the Government of Israel — a nation with which for decade we have enjoy friendly relation and strong diplomatic tie . it be a nation that many of we believe share our value , our commitment to human right and democracy , and our principled opposition to racism and ethnic cleansing . at some level , we be all aware of the extremely long and complex history of what be now the state of Israel and the occupied Palestinian Territories of the west bank and Gaza , and the intertwining of the modern part of that history with both the british empire and the Holocaust . I do not wish to retell that story , as although I think this Adjournment debate will go on for long than be anticipate , it can not be long enough to do full justice to that history , so instead I will start from 7 October 2023 . on that day , Hamas and other armed palestinian group base in Gaza launch a sickening attack on Israel that kill over 1 , 200 israeli man , woman and child in horrific circumstance . Hamas and their ally kidnap 251 Israelis and other nationality and hold they as hostage . my constituent be , as I be , absolutely horrify by those event , and supportive of the Israelis as victim of horrible crime and , as a nation like our , entitle to exercise their right to self - defence . the story of the experience of Israelis — some face their last moment — inspire huge sympathy and understanding among the people of the north - east . we stand with Israel in its demand that the hostage be immediately release and recognise that Israel have a right to defend itself and a right to strike against Hamas . five hundred and seventy - one day of violence have follow , with two period of ceasefire — seemingly endless day of the world ' s most powerful weapon be use against civilian by one of the world ' s most powerful military . I just want to emphasise that Israel be the 15th most powerful nation in total firepower , accord to Global Firepower . Gaza ' s Hamas - control Ministry of Health have report that between 7 October 2023 and 8 April 2025 , the Israel Defence Forces have kill 51 , 000 Palestinians and injure over 100 , 000 . their number include 166 journalist and medium worker , 120 academic and more than 224 humanitarian aid worker . estimate of the proportion of the dead in Gaza who be civilian range from the israeli newspaper Haaretz ' s 61 % to the Euro - Med Human Rights Monitor ' s estimate of 90 % . a detailed study of body find in Gaza residential building by the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights find that 44 % be child and a further 27 % be woman , which make a total of 71 % and suggest that the total when civilian man be include be likely to be close to 90 % than 61 % . a joint report by Oxfam and Action on Armed Violence in October 2024 find that the israeli military have kill more woman and child in Gaza than have be kill in any other conflict around the world in the past two decade . these number do not include death from disease and malnutrition . Israel have contest some number provide by the Gaza Health Ministry , but early in the war , Israel Defence Forces official tell the Times of Israel that approximately 66 % of the palestinian casualty in Gaza be civilian . give that Israel do not provide its own figure for civilian kill in Gaza , nor do it permit UN fact - finder , international journalist or the BBC to enter Gaza , we must go with other source . in January 2025 , a peer review study in the Lancet , the UK ' s premier medical journal , suggest that the Gaza Ministry of Health be undercounte the death toll by 41 % . if that study be accurate , it be likely that the death toll in Gaza as a result of Israel ' s military operation today stand at over 90 , 000 . in addition , 70 % of all structure in Gaza have be destroy by the Israelis . there be audible sigh of relief across the country , and indeed the world , at the ceasefire of 19 January this year . however , on 18 March , Israel launch what it call " extensive strike " in Gaza . early in March , Israel ' s Government block humanitarian aid from enter Gaza . no supply , include food and medicine , have enter Gaza in over seven week and 95 % of aid operation in Gaza have be suspend or dramatically cut back . a joint statement issue on 17 April by a dozen aid organisation base in multiple country , include Oxfam , CARE and save the Children , confirm that they have all the mean necessary to deliver aid , but be be deny access to Gaza by israeli authority . infectious disease , particularly those that affect child , be now on the rise . the World Food Programme announce three day ago that despite more than 116 , 000 tonne of aid be ready at the border , 91 % of Gaza ' s population , which be 1 , 802 , 000 people — human being — face " high level of acute food insecurity " . that be basically international aid jargon that mean malnutrition and actual starvation . this be my fourth question for my hon . friend the Minister . can she confirm that that be the Government ' s understanding of the humanitarian situation in Gaza today ? I will move on to what can be do to support the Palestinians in Palestine . I know that the Government be take action by press for an immediate ceasefire and the release of the hostage , increase funding to the United Nations Relief and Works Agency , sign a memorandum of understanding with the leader of the Palestinian Authority , condemn settlement and settler violence in the occupy west bank , sanction settler group involve in violence , and undertake a comprehensive review of arm sale to Israel , which have result in the suspension of some arm transfer . I have also be advise that pressure on Israel would be more effective if the palestinian high commissioner in Jerusalem and the UK ambassador to Israel in Tel Aviv be able to work more closely together . could the Minister tell I if that be happen or if that be the case ? that be question five . I greatly welcome the fact that the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom have state that the israeli Government ' s " decision to block aid go into Gaza be completely wrong and should not be support " — [ Official Report , 3 March 2025 ; Vol . 763 , c . 32 . ] however , the israeli Government continue to kill palestinian civilian , particularly child , and continue to prevent the flow of food , medicine and other humanitarian supply into Gaza . my constituent ask I what the Government be do to end that , and that be the question that I repeat to my hon . friend the Minister . specifically — question six — will the UK respond to the International Court of Justice ' s summer ruling on the legality of the israeli occupation , and will the UK support the current case before the ICJ on humanitarian access in order to well hold the israeli Government to account ? I shall turn now to what my constituent can do directly to support the Government in support Palestine , and to support Palestine directly . Newcastle , as I hope all member be aware , have a long history of support for social justice and international solidarity . the people of Newcastle upon Tyne Central and West want to know how they can support the people of Palestine , so can the Minister tell I if the Government support the right of my constituent to protest and to show their horror at the death and destruction in Palestine ? if so , how ? money matter , so can my constituent support the people of Palestine through the way in which they spend or do not spend their money ? be there good and service that they can buy from Palestinians ? be it clear what good be from the illegally occupy palestinian territory and what good be from Israel ? how can my constituent distinguish between the two ? that be question eight . geordie be famously generous , and my constituent want to know how they can help Palestinians through their charitable giving without help Hamas . with aid rot at the border , which non - governmental organisation or charity do the Minister recommend my constituent support to ensure that aid get through ? on social medium , there be regular appeal from gofundme account to help victim of israeli military strike or the blockade individually . do the Minister recommend that my constituent provide funding to those appeal , and if not , how can they provide support to the people they be watch die on their screen ? alternatively , be there other organisation to support advocacy effort , legal aid and other form of assistance that do not rely on physical access to Gaza itself ? the UN Human Rights Council have identify what it call " clear evidence " of war crime be commit by Israel in its conflict with the Palestinians . the International Criminal Court intend to investigate the evidence of war crime , but — question 11 — what can my constituent do to support the survivor of war crime on the ground ? finally , how can my constituent support constructive engagement between Palestinians and Israelis ? that be question 12 . every day , the people of Newcastle express to I how intensely they want their government to act and how intensely they wish to directly and personally support the people of Palestine and help end their suffering . in the future , I believe we will all be ask what we do in the face of this horror . I urge the Minister to advise the people of Newcastle what the Government be do to stop the israeli Government ' s killing of civilian , particularly child , and their blockade on food and medicine reach the people of the Gaza strip , and to advise we on what we as individual and as a community can do . if nothing more can be do by the British Government , in addition to what the Minister and the Foreign Office have talk about and the announce action that have not result in the lifting of the blockade or the ending of israeli strike on Gaza , can the Minister be clear about that ? if my constituent be condemn to watch the israeli Government use their tank , artillery and war plane against apartment building , tent encampment and family car , and to watch dead toddler be pull from the rubble of their home on the 10 o ' clock news every night , please tell we . we have three colleague who also wish to contribute . I turn to Andy Slaughter first . I rise only briefly , principally to congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle upon Tyne Central and West ( Chi Onwurah ) on her tour de force of a speech and the pertinent question she put to the Minister . her comprehensiveness mean that I can be brief . I want to say just two or three thing . I agree from the perspective of my Hammersmith and Chiswick constituency that there have be a huge outpouring of sympathy and a wish to help from constituent . I have have over 7 , 000 email , letter and call from constituent about the atrocity in Gaza , which be easily the large postbag I have have on any single issue over the 20 year I have be here . that show the level of empathy and support . unfortunately , there be little good news from Gaza , but one small piece of good news this week be the visit to London of the palestinian Prime Minister Mohammad Mustafa to meet our Prime Minister to sign the memorandum of understanding , which include reaffirm the commitment to a two - state solution , announce a further aid package of over £ 100 million and , importantly , show solidarity between our two country , which be not do nearly enough . I meet the palestinian Prime Minister briefly at the Britain - Palestine all - party parliamentary group , where he speak fluently , clearly and calmly under the circumstance of the demand he wish to see , and many of they have be reflect in my hon . friend ' s speech . he be ask by one of our colleague of the eight ask he make which be the most important , and his answer be recognition of a palestinian state . that may seem slightly strange give the immediate humanitarian disaster on the ground , but in reality , without recognition and without Palestine have — at least in diplomatic and constitutional term — the same status as Israel , the situation in the region will never move forward . it be disappointing therefore that the Government have not commit to that . I do not expect my hon . friend the Minister to announce any major policy change today , but I hope that we be move far and more quickly towards that , and that there be strong hint , perhaps later this year , that more country , include France , will follow those european country that have already recognise the state of Palestine . I do not think there have be a well or more necessary time over the past few year for that step to be take . I speak on behalf of my constituent when I say that it be very difficult to see why , when we quite rightly recognise the state of Israel many year ago , we do not also recognise the state of Palestine . I will touch briefly on the aid situation , which be dire . we have perhaps repeat that so often that it have lose some of its impact , but it be absolutely true . not only be the bakery empty and food not available in Gaza because of the blockade , which be , in anyone ' s term , a breach of international humanitarian law — there be no food leave in Gaza and people will starve and die as a horrific consequence — but an assessment in February by the UN , EU and World Bank estimate that 95 % of hospital be not functional , 91 % of the population have high level of acute food insecurity , which have worsen , and 100 % of education facility have be fully destroy or partially damage . the assessment estimate that the reconstruction and recovery cost be $ 53 billion , include $ 20 billion need in the next three year . yes , the UK have historically be a generous donor of aid to Gaza , and it continue to be so , but there be such a level of need give the continue violence and destruction . my hon . friend be right to emphasise the horrific number of death , particularly civilian death , which account for the majority , but the problem go beyond that and into the destruction of a whole civil society , build environment and economy , which be clearly a deliberate policy that we should call out more profoundly in this House and at Government level . I will not repeat my hon . friend ' s point about the ICJ judgment . our response to that be long overdue , as be a reconsideration of our trading relationship with illegal settlement . give that government policy be clearly and quite rightly that such settlement be illegal under international law , it have always puzzle I that we continue to trade with they . I would like the Government to take a lead from the british people , who have make clear their sympathy for the people of Gaza , Palestine , the west bank and the other Occupied Territories , and to take more positive step . if they do not , we will see only a continuation of the death and destruction . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle upon Tyne Central and West ( Chi Onwurah ) on secure this important debate to talk about the occupy Palestinian Territories and the people of Palestine . much like my hon . friend the Members for Newcastle upon Tyne Central and West and for Hammersmith and Chiswick ( Andy Slaughter ) , many hundred of constituent have be in touch with I throughout my time as the Member of Parliament for Burnley , Padiham and Brierfield to talk about the occupy Palestinian Territories , and the death that they have witness on social medium and television or hear about from family , friend and perhaps people from the region who have share story of the way life be live over there . I promise those people that I would raise my voice , and that be what I be do today . as my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle upon Tyne Central and West say — I could not have choose well word — there have be such an outpouring of emotion and sympathy , and a desire to help and see peace in the region . that be why we be all here to speak about this today . as we have already hear , the situation for Palestinians be desperate — it be hell on earth . it be estimate by the United Nations that 40 , 000 to 50 , 000 people have be kill since 7 October , include over 250 aid worker , and over 100 , 000 people have be injure . some 90 % of Gazans face immediate hunger and the prospect of starve to death , and 70 % of building on the Gaza strip have be destroy in israeli bombing . there be no education facility — nothing — and very few standing hospital . in March , Israel stop all humanitarian aid and completely cut off power to the strip : no food , medicine or aid , only death . I say to Israel : we must have peace and a return to the ceasefire now , and in the long term we must have a two - state solution , about which a lot of Labour Members agree . at the same time , when we talk about the context of the occupy Palestinian Territories , we can not forget that 59 abducted hostage be still be hold by Hamas terrorist in Gaza . so I say to Hamas : Palestinians be suffer ; stop this , bring the hostage home , disband and end this now . Hamas have kill thousand of innocent ; they have kill woman and child and they take over 200 hostage on 7 October . Hamas be not freedom fighter — they be monster . I will not countenance any defence of Hamas or their action . but , turn to the action of the israeli Government , last month israeli tank move into the west bank for the first time in decade . some 40 , 000 Palestinians have be displace from area of the west bank and 916 Palestinians have be kill in the west bank since October 2023 . I have meet Palestinians live in the west bank , include a woman from the Tent of Nations farm . I can only describe their experience as daily harassment , terror and bullying by israeli troop and settler to unreasonable and unnecessary level , and that be before we talk about the specific action of some of the very aggressive settler from the illegal settlement . those settler want complete annexation of the west bank and the utter destruction of the possibility of a two - state solution , and consequently , of a palestinian state . I be glad that this Government have consistently call for a ceasefire and for the release of all hostage . on my first week in Parliament , I raise that with the Prime Minister . after the election , I be glad to hear he recommit to not only a two - state solution but a ceasefire in the region . it be worth remember that this government restore and increase funding for the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees to more than ever before . I condemn the awful violence that we have see in settlement in the west bank . I be glad that this Government have strongly sanction settler group , although I agree with the previous comment that those sanction need to go far . it be important to say that those settler do not represent all Israelis , but a niche and extreme group . there be a wide context that can bring about peace , as this be a battle not between nation or creed but between extremist on both side . this Government have suspend a large number of arm transfer to Israel , where they be know to have be use or seem to have be use improperly . I know that be under constant review , which I welcome . we must do more to get aid into the region , and I be glad that the Prime Minister yesterday set out a furth £ 100 million for the Palestinian Authority . we have to end Israel ' s block on aid and electricity in the strip , and we must make the step we promise in the election in support the creation of a palestinian state . as be mention by my hon . friend the Member for Hammersmith and Chiswick ( Andy Slaughter ) , that will allow legal protection and security for Palestinians and the wide region , and self - determination for the occupy area , which they do not currently enjoy and have not enjoy for some time . I caveat all that with a desire , certainly on my part , that Hamas will play no part in that palestinian state . justice for Palestinians and Israelis who have lose love one be within our grasp . Burnley , Padiham and Brierfield want peace , to stop the death , get back to a ceasefire , get aid in and proudly uphold international law . we must use the opportunity of the June conference host by France and Saudi Arabia to progress statehood for Palestinians ; recognition from the UK ought to be a serious consideration there . a political solution — a two - state solution — be the only solution . I again thank my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle upon Tyne Central and West for secure this debate . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle upon Tyne Central and West ( Chi Onwurah ) for secure this debate and for the solution that she have put forward . I agree with my hon . friend the Member for Hammersmith and Chiswick ( Andy Slaughter ) that the time for we to recognise the state of Palestine be now . that would go some way towards try to make some improvement to the situation . I also agree with my hon . friend the Member for Burnley ( Oliver Ryan ) that what Hamas do be unforgivable , but , as I have say in this House before , the action of Hamas can in no way be use to justify what be happen to the Palestinians in Gaza . we do not have any control over Hamas , but Israel be an ally , and we should have more of an influence on what be happen . Gaza have a population of more than 2 million people , who mostly depend on aid , but since 2 March no humanitarian or commercial supply have go into Gaza , because of the blockade that Israel have impose on the territory . since 9 March , no electricity have go to Gaza , because of Israel cut off the supply . since January , there have be 10 , 000 case of acute malnutrition among child and 1 , 600 case of severe acute malnutrition — those be just the report figure . the UN World Food Programme have say that as of 25 April , all food stock in Gaza have be deplete . my constituent continuously say to I that we need to be on the right side of history . we can not stand by and just wait for the israeli Government to listen to we . I have a lot of faith in this Government , and I be very pleased that they have repeatedly state the urgent need for a return to a ceasefire in Gaza , for the hostage to be release and for the aid to be unblocked . I be also very pleased that this Government have continuously condemn the israeli settlement and state that they be illegal under international law . those settlement be harmful to the prospect of a future palestinian state . we must call for and recognise the state of Palestine now . it be very good to have Prime Minister Mustafa of the Palestinian Authority in this country , and the memorandum of understanding sign between our two country be a good step forward . I be very pleased that we have announce the £ 101 million package of support for the Occupied Palestinian Territories , but I have a question . it be all very well pledge that support , but if Israel continue to behave in the way that it have so far , what effect will that aid have ? will it actually stop the killing , the bloodshed and the malnutrition be suffer by the Palestinians in Gaza ? although my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle upon Tyne Central and West go a lot far than I be go in come up with solution , as I say early , I have faith in this Government , and I want they to come to some kind of conclusion about the further step they can take to improve the situation . I have to confess my frustration that although we be make all the right comment and statement , nothing be improve . People — woman , child and other — be continue to die in Gaza , in the occupy Palestinian Territories . how much long be we go to tolerate this ? I call the Minister . it be a pleasure to see you in the Chair for this important debate , Madam Deputy Speaker . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle upon Tyne Central and West ( Chi Onwurah ) for secure it ; she be an active campaigner on this topic and on a number of other foreign policy matter . I also thank she for the thoughtful way in which she put the debate in context . of course , tomorrow be Yom Ha ' atzmaut , which be a national holiday in Israel , and my hon . Friend also emphasise the suffering from the dreadful attack in October 2023 — the horrific terror attack — and her support for the people of Israel follow that terrible moment . she be quite right to ask how she can support the situation in the middle east , quote her constituent assiduously , and to ask how she can respond to their compassion and concern . the Minister for the Middle East , my hon . friend the Member for Lincoln ( Mr Falconer ) , would usually have be at the Dispatch Box for this debate . he will watch it later on , and will be very happy to reply to any bit that I miss out , or any question that be only half - answer — as the Minister for the Indo - Pacific , I might occasionally answer only half the question , rather than give the full answer that the Minister for the Middle East could provide . I be also grateful to the hon . member for Wolverhampton West ( Warinder Juss ) , for Hammersmith and Chiswick ( Andy Slaughter ) and for Burnley ( Oliver Ryan ) , and I will attempt to answer some of the question raise and respond to some of the point make . the Government be steadfast in our friendship with , and support for , the palestinian people . my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle upon Tyne Central and West ask what support we can provide and what more we can do . several member have mention the visit of palestinian Prime Minister Mustafa to London yesterday for high - level meeting with both the Prime Minister and the Foreign Secretary , and I reassure my hon . friend the Members for Hammersmith and Chiswick and for Wolverhampton West that we support the palestinian people ' s inalienable right to self - determination , include to an independent state . yesterday , the Foreign Secretary and Prime Minister sign a memorandum of understanding with Prime Minister Mustafa , enshrine the UK ' s commitment to advance palestinian statehood as part of a two - state solution . that memorandum of understanding also underscore the commitment of the Palestinian Authority to deliver its reform agenda as a matter of priority . I now turn to the UK ' s support for Gaza , and the main question that my hon . friend ' s constituent in Newcastle upon Tyne Central and West want an answer to : be the UK do all it possibly can to alleviate the humanitarian situation in Gaza ? in the last financial year , the UK provide £ 129 million in funding to the Occupied Palestinian Territories , or opt . this week , the UK announce a £ 101 million package of funding for this financial year , which will include substantial funding for the humanitarian response in Gaza , as well as support for palestinian economic development and strengthen the Palestinian Authority ' s governance and reform — they have to be ready . our support be make a real difference to those who need it most . to date , the UK ' s support have provide essential healthcare to over 430 , 000 people , food to almost 650 , 000 people , and improve access to water , sanitation and hygiene service to close to 380 , 000 people . I thank the Minister for her comment and the context she be give . I just want to be clear about something : be the humanitarian aid we be provide to Gaza get through into Gaza right now ? my hon . friend be right to say that funding be one thing and access be another . that be why it be crucial that we have be press the Government of Israel to ensure that vital aid can reach Gaza and that our humanitarian partner , include the United Nations , can deliver their work effectively . I be grateful to the hon . member for Burnley for remind the House that UNRWA funding be reintroduce under this government , and for emphasise that UNRWA have be at the centre of thing since July last year . give the infrastructure that it have on the ground , it be critical to the provision of assistance . in addition , UK funding to UK - Med have help to sustain its field hospital operation . my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle upon Tyne Central and West ask which organisation can be trust to deliver . UK - Med have facilitate more than 405 , 000 consultation in Gaza since January 2024 , so that patient can receive critical life and limb - save surgery . we be also provide funding to the World Health Organisation Egypt to ensure vital medical supply reach evacuate Gazans be treat there . my hon . Friend ask who can help . our Government , through the international group such as the World Health Organisation that public funding go towards , be provide this vital treatment . the expert in development aid always say it be good to work through those big funding organisation , because they do that enormously helpful work . for example , there be the delivery of the polio vaccination campaign . my hon . friend mention communicable disease and the risk of further illness , but that polio vaccination campaign protect more than 600 , 000 vulnerable child across Gaza through funding to the global polio eradication initiative . we know that the scale of the crisis mean that more support be crucial . that be why we continue to support UNRWA ' s vital work . that include provide essential service , education and healthcare to civilian in Gaza and the west bank and to palestinian refugee across the region . I apologise that I could not be here for the beginning , because I be in Westminster Hall — the time be all out of kilter . the hon . member for Macclesfield ( Tim Roca ) and I be both there , and we have just arrive . all the thing that the Minister have outline about the medical help that can be give be important , but what be also important , particularly for young child , be education . can she perhaps give we some more information about education ? it be not just about what they be miss out on , but the opportunity that can change their life . I thank the hon . member for mention education , because it be so crucial . we do not want child to go uneducated and then , perhaps through a sense of the well of suffering , recreate in the next generation less education and less understanding of the world . some member who speak early mention the destruction of school . that be why it be so important that UNRWA can gain access to Gaza and the occupied Palestinian Territories , so that school can be rebuild and classroom can be re - provide . that be not just in term of education , but that important psychosocial help that so many traumatised family need now . People may ask , as indeed have member , " what be the Government do ? can ' t we do more ? " the Foreign Secretary have intervene time and again . most recently , he speak to israeli Foreign Minister Sa ' ar on 15 April , where he raise urgent concern about the deteriorate humanitarian situation in Gaza and the urgent need to restore the flow of aid . the UK issue a joint statement last week with France and Germany call on the Government of Israel to restart immediately the rapid and unimpeded flow of humanitarian aid to Gaza . we have repeatedly raise our concern at the UN Security Council , include on the safety of aid worker . the Minister with responsibility for the United Nations intervene at the Security Council just this week , express outrage at recent attack , include the killing of palestinian Red Crescent worker and the strike on a United Nations compound on 19 March . can my hon . friend give any indication of what response we have receive suggest that Israel might change its course of action ? as my hon . friend will , I think , appreciate , many Israelis say that people outside the region simply do not understand their desire for security . equally , palestinian community say that those outside the region can not possibly understand the extent of their suffering . that , in a nutshell , be the depth of what we be face , and that be why we must redouble our effort not just to make the case to the senior people involve and the decision - maker in this conflict , but to impress on they the importance for our constituent that their reply must be true and must come with some action attach . let I return briefly to the subject of the strike on the UN compound on 19 March . Israel have admit that it be cause by one of its tank , despite the compound be know to the IDF as a UN humanitarian facility . that be inexcusable , and we urge Israel to ensure that accurate public statement be make about such grave incident . it must conduct full and transparent investigation of these incident , hold those responsible to account , and reinstate an effective deconfliction system to prevent such terrible tragedy from reoccurre . member have mention the International Court of Justice . let I remind they of what have be say in the past by both the Foreign Secretary and the Minister for the Middle East : " the UK be fully commit to international law and respect the independence of the International Court of Justice . we continue to consider the Court ' s Advisory Opinion carefully , with the seriousness and rigour it deserve . " let I reassure member on both side of the House that we be committed to a two - state solution , and that commitment be unwavering . the statement continue : " we be of the clear view that Israel should bring an end to its presence in the occupied Palestinian Territories as rapidly as possible , but it must be do in a way that create the condition for negotiation towards a two - state solution . " that , I know , be an issue that my hon . friend the Member for Hammersmith and Chiswick have raise on a number of occasion in his cross - party work on this important subject . the hon . member for Burnley mention settlement and settler violence . the UK Government ' s position be that israeli settlement in the west bank be illegal under international law , and harm prospect for a two - state solution . settlement do not offer security to either Israel or Palestinians . settlement expansion and settler violence have reach record level . the israeli Government seize more of the west bank in 2024 than in the past 20 year , and that be completely unacceptable . the Foreign Secretary meet palestinian community member in the west bank , where he hear how community — not just palestinian community , but other local group — be affect , and make it clear to israeli Ministers that the israeli Government must clamp down on settler violence and end settlement expansion . I thank the hon . member for Burnley for mention the hostage . this be , of course , a situation about which we feel very strongly , because of the involvement of the british hostage and people who have family member still stick with the terrible terrorist group Hamas . let I respond briefly to the hon . Gentleman ' s point . the UK Government welcome the announcement of an agreement last January to end the fighting in Gaza and release the 38 hostage , include the british national Emily Damari and the UK - link Eli Sharabi . secure an immediate ceasefire and the safe release of all hostage have be a priority for the Government since the start of the conflict , and we will not stop until they be all back at home . the death of Oded Lifshitz , who have strong UK link and be tragically hold hostage by terrorist in Gaza , be absolutely heartbreaking this be a crucial time for the region , and we thank Qatar , Egypt and the United States for their support in bring the horrific ordeal of those individual and their family to an end . the hostage have endure unimaginable suffering , and the situation in Gaza have continue to worsen . the ceasefire need to get back on track . I want to briefly mention the Bibas family — our thought be with they . they be go through intolerable anguish over Shiri and her young child Kfir and Ariel . as the Prime Minister say , we want to see all remain hostage release and the ceasefire restart . the Government remain committed to work with international partner to end the suffering and secure long - term peace in the middle east . I be sure the Minister will join I in express our pleasure at see the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) in his place . I would not have feel that I have really have an Adjournment debate have I not hear his voice , for which I be very grateful . I thank the Minister for her comment . she mention that the settlement in the occupied Palestinian Territories be illegal . one of the question I put to she be about distinguish between good from illegal settlement in the Occupied Palestinian Territories and good from Israel so that my constituent can make decision about what they purchase . with my hon . friend ' s permission , I will write to she on that point or ask the Minister for the Middle East to write to she . with Israel be a close friend of the UK , we have a trading relationship with it . on her specific point about whether there be particular product that could be purchase to support the situation at the moment — for example , specific product that may have be make by particular group that she wish to support , such as traditional handicraft and so forth — I will seek the guidance of official so that I can write to she with confidence . more generally , we be keen to maintain our trading relationship , which give we another way of talk to Israel about this important question . I thank the Minister greatly for her generosity . as the Minister for the Indo - Pacific , she do a fantastic job of set out the complex issue in response to member ' contribution . I will take she up on her offer to write to I on these issue , and I will make sure that the Minister for the Middle East have both the Hansard record and a copy of all the question I have set out . I think my hon . friend come into the House with I in 2015 , and we have learn some very nice manner over the year . it be very important in these potentially heartfelt debate that we have the tone that we have have this afternoon . the Government be steadfast in our friendship with , and support for , the palestinian people — my hon . friend can reassure her constituent about that . our support for the Palestinian Authority continue to provide essential service , and promote reform and state building . our support for the humanitarian response in Gaza provide food and medical assistance to those who most need it , and we will keep press for access . our consistent support for palestinian statehood through a two - state solution aim to ensure a political horizon and future in which Palestinians and Israelis can live in peace and security . in the end , that be the only solution that can bring stability and prosperity to the entire region . question put and agree to . House adjourn .