business before Questions Royal Albert Hall Bill [ Lords ] second reading oppose and defer until Tuesday 10 June ( Standing Order no . 20 ) . oral Answers to Questions Justice the Secretary of State be ask — reoffende : Young Offenders what step her Department be take to help reduce reoffende by young offender . what step her Department be take to help reduce reoffende by young offender . the Government be determined to reduce youth reoffende as part of our safe street mission . despite the fiscal challenge we inherit , we have increase our core funding to youth offend team and extend our effective Turnaround programme . I thank the Minister for his answer . in a recent survey on the impact of the cost of live on childhood in Blackpool , six in 10 respondent tell I that they be worried about child in their care become involve in crime or antisocial behaviour . the link between deprivation and crime be clear , and it highlight the urgent need for a dedicated cross - government strategy to improve the life of young people in Blackpool and across the country . what step be the Minister take , alongside other colleague in Government , to ensure co - ordinate action to tackle youth crime and reoffende rate in vulnerable community such as Blackpool ? we be work across Government to tackle the root cause of youth offend . we be also create the Young Futures programme , which will have prevention partnership , so that we can intervene early . the child poverty taskforce will soon publish a cross - government strategy for reduce child poverty . I thank the Minister for his response . it be so important that we break the cycle of reoffende , particularly for young offender . in Gloucester , we be really lucky to have amazing organisation work with young offender , include Young Gloucestershire and the Nelson Trust , which offer holistic trauma - inform support for woman of all age . will the Minister join I on a visit to the Nelson Trust to see the great work be do in my city of Gloucester ? I thank my hon . friend for highlight the importance of essential organisation such as Young Gloucestershire and the Nelson Trust . I be grateful for the invitation , and ask he to please write to I about the organisation . we will see what my diary can do . Somerset Youth Justice Service recently get a " require improvement " rating from his Majesty ' s inspectorate of probation . the situation be clearly damage young offender ’ chance of rehabilitation , so what step be the Department take to improve SYJS and support young offender in Somerset ? the hon . Lady draw attention to an important issue . inspection be significant in identify where additional support and effort be need . the Department will do everything it can to give proper support to Somerset Youth Justice Service . do the Minister agree that probation service in North Down and across the UK often exceed their duty , provide extensive support to individual in need ? furthermore , do he agree that it be essential to allocate resource for substance abuse treatment , so that young offender have access to personalised service ? I agree wholeheartedly . it be very important that substance abuse be properly tackle . probation service and youth offend team do a lot of work in that space . victim of Domestic Abuse and Violence what step she be take to support survivor of domestic abuse and violence against woman through the criminal justice system . what step her Department be take to support victim of domestic abuse . the Government be take action to support victim of domestic abuse and violence . we be ensure strong management of domestic abuse perpetrator through new domestic abuse protection order and the increase multi - agency management of domestic abuser ; that be be expand to those convict of coercive and control behaviour . in response to the sentencing review publish last week , I commit to further protection for victim , include the roll - out of domestic abuse specialist court and well identification of domestic abuse perpetrator . my constituent be subject to financial , physical and emotional abuse by her ex . she be also cyber - stalk ; her social medium account be hack for detail of her location , and for information about their child . despite be grant a non - molestation order and a prohibit step order , she be unable to compile sufficient evidence of the cyber - stalk to be grant a stalk protection order . speak to she , her fear be palpable . what step be the Secretary of State take to ensure that victim be support in compile the evidence that they need for a stalk protection order ? I be very sorry to hear of the experience of the hon . Lady ' s constituent ; it be clearly a horrifying case , and my sympathy be with she . give that stalk protection order be relatively new , there be a case for continually examine whether their roll - out be work as intend . they be primarily a Home Office responsibility , but there be amendment to the Crime and Policing Bill , which be go through the House , that be design to strengthen these order . if the hon . Lady will write to I , I will ensure that she have a meeting with the relevant Minister to talk through the specific of the case that she have raise , and the lesson that can be learn as we strengthen these order for everyone . in April , the Metropolitan Police Commissioner warn that without additional funding , London will see a sustained increase in violence against woman and girl . my right hon . friend the Secretary of State have be work tirelessly to fix the broken system leave by the Conservatives , but if we do not get that support in London , woman will go unprotected . will she commit to work with colleague in the Home Office and the Treasury to ensure that the Met can keep woman safe in my constituency and across London ? of course , we work closely with colleague in the Home Office and the Treasury . the Government will shortly publish the outcome of the spending review , but I can assure my hon . friend that all colleague across Government be commit to our mission to halve violence against woman and girl , for victim not just in London but across the country . I will ensure that we engage with member across the House on this matter as well . reoffende on Probation what step her Department be take to help to reduce reoffende by people on probation . we inherit a justice system in crisis , with prison churn out well criminal , not well citizen , and we know that 80 % of offender be reoffender . last week , I announce measure to toughen up community punishment , which result in low reoffende rate than short custodial sentence . we will also increase probation investment to manage offender in the community safely . will the Lord Chancellor outline the step be take to recruit and retain probation officer , and to ensure that they have manageable caseload and that their morale be improve ? what programme or partnership be in place to help those on probation to access stable accommodation , and employment , training or education , so that they can go through the rehabilitation process and reduce their chance of reoffende ? we be invest in probation . funding will increase by £ 700 million by the final year of the spending review . that be a 45 % increase in annual budget , which will fund further recruitment on top of the 1 , 300 officer we will recruit this year and the 1 , 000 officer we recruit in the previous year . that will support our investment in service that rehabilitate offender and cut crime . the Lord Chancellor admit in a recent interview with the Times that her sentencing reform will create " inevitable tension " with the Government ' s effort to halve knife crime and rate of violence against woman and girl . it sound like she do not really believe in these reform , which have be trot out by David Gauke , the Prisons Minister in the other place and the Prison Reform Trust . do the Lord Chancellor realise that none of they be elect , and that if this package fail to keep our street safe and restore the criminal justice system , the country will hold she and this government to account ? I think the country will hold to account those responsible for the absolute mess that this Government inherit . nowhere in the right hon . Gentleman ' s question do he acknowledge that under the Government of which he be a member and for which he campaign , prison be bring to the brink of collapse . these reform be necessary . this government will not allow our prison to run out of place — the one thing everybody agree we can not allow to happen . the only reason that be a possibility be because of the Tory party . locked child Trust Funds when the Minister of State for Courts and Legal Services plan to meet the hon . member for Horsham ' s constituent Andrew Turner to discuss locked child trust fund . I be well aware of the hon . Gentleman ' s campaign to support young adult who lack mental capacity in access their child trust fund . I know that he meet my predecessor , and follow work that I be carry out with counterpart in other Departments , I will be very pleased to meet he . my constituent have be through no few than eight Justice Secretaries , look for a solution to the problem of lock child trust fund ; he have have to start over again each time from scratch . will the Minister give I and Mr Turner a clear understanding of what exactly the legal impediment be to a solution , and of what part of Government the objection be come from , so that we can make a legal challenge to it , if necessary ? the hon . Member will understand , as will Mr Turner , that we have to balance the desire to support young adult who lack capacity in access what be their property by right with the need to ensure that everybody who need to access those child trust fund have the proper legal authority to do so . safeguard need to be in place , not least to ensure that those vulnerable adult be protect from economic abuse . that be why we must work very carefully across Government to ensure that those protection be keep in place . community Accommodation Service : Tier 3 what step her Department be take to ensure adequate monitoring of the community accommodation service tier 3 . we inherit a system in which far too many people leave prison with no fix address . individual in community accommodation service tier 3 be risk - assess by probation and subject to ongoing monitoring . supplier work closely with probation to deal robustly with any behavioural concern pose by resident . Thanet House in Leatherhead have rightly be withdraw from the CAS3 scheme follow serious concern , include about drug dealing , antisocial behaviour and safeguard risk . despite raise my constituent ' concern numerous time , I have receive no response from the probation delivery unit . will the Secretary of State ensure that robust monitoring and clear accountability be in place across all CAS3 property , and commit to ensure that the Probation Service respond promptly to concern raise by mps and local resident ? it be important that the Probation Service deal with any concern promptly and effectively . the Department write to the hon . Lady on 20 April with further detail in relation to her concern , and Thanet House be withdraw from the scheme on 20 May . Violent Offenders : early Release what discussion she have have with victim ' group on the early release of violent offender . what discussion she have have with victim group on the early release of violent offender . a victim ' representative be on the panel that conduct the independent sentencing review , which gather view from victim and survivor . I personally meet a number of victim and victim group and feed their view directly back to David Gauke . those serve sentence for more serious sexual and violent offence will spend at least 50 % of their sentence in custody . the Victims ' Commissioner say that the early release of prisoner risk victim safety , so will the Lord Chancellor explain why she be put violent offender ahead of victim ? that be not the case . what would be fail victim be if our criminal justice system get to the point of collapse and we do not have prison place for violent offender . this government be get on with reform our criminal justice system . we be put victim at the heart of it to protect they , and be make sure that we never run out of prison place again . the Prisoners ( Disclosure of Information about Victims ) Act 2020 , otherwise know as Helen ' s law , should prevent the early release of murderer who do not disclose the location of their victim ' remain . however , there be loophole in the law in case where the murderer make a disclosure but no remain be find , as happen in the case of Jean Taylor ' s daughter , Chantel . will the Minister meet I and Jean Taylor , who found the charity family fight for Justice , to close those loophole ? I thank the right hon . member for her question . all my sympathy go to her constituent . if she want to write to I with the detail , I will definitely look into the case and come back to she . I call the Chair of the Justice Committee . the previous Government release prisoner in an indiscriminate way . this Government have develop a more organised approach , but the progression model of sentencing , recommend by the independent sentencing review and welcome by the Government , could mean less clarity for victim about when perpetrator leave prison . give the concern express by victim ' group , what safeguard and resource will the Minister put in place to prepare victim and assure they of their safety ? I thank the Chair of the Justice Committee for that important question . it be vital that victim be notify . that be why we be boost probation and ensure that victim liaison officer have that vital information . he will be aware that in our Victims and Courts Bill , which have be present to this House , we be introduce a new victim notification scheme , and a dedicated helpline to ensure that victim get the vital information that they so desperately need . in March , I meet people from the Justice for Victims campaign group . one family tell I that their young daughter be kill by an unlicensed , uninsured driver . they be ask to alter their victim impact statement several time to avoid offend the defendant and be deny the chance to fully express their grief . that experience be share by many other . will the Justice Secretary take step to ensure that victim ' family have full autonomy over their statement , so that they can express their experience freely in court ? I thank my hon . friend for that question . I also have the privilege of meet those family in March , and I hear their concern . I know personally how important victim personal statement be to ensure that victim ' and family ' voice be hear . I do not want there to be any circumstance in which they feel unable to make a statement . however , these statement be consider evidence , and the rule of admissibility apply , as they do to all witness statement . that be a matter for the court , but we will keep look at the issue . I call the shadow Justice Secretary . can I first say how sorry I be to hear that the Minister be the subject of intimidation and an attack on her office ? I think all of we across the House would like to wish she and her staff well , and to say how pleased we be that the vile individual behind this have be catch and punish . in September , the Justice Secretary design an early release scheme for prisoner . she let out Lawson Natty , who supply the machete use to kill a 14 - year - old , and Adam Andrews , who shake a baby so violently that he be leave blind and paralysed . she be now halve prison sentence for killer and rapist , while Lucy Connolly remain behind bar for a reprehensible but swiftly delete tweet . do the Justice Secretary really believe that her choice be make the public safe ? this government be make choice to keep this country safe , and be clean up the mess leave after the previous Government lead our criminal justice system to rack and ruin . they leave this government to make the difficult decision , when we come into office , that be necessary to prevent the total collapse of our criminal justice system . it be worth remind the House again , because the Conservatives seem to have very short memory , that they only build an additional 500 prison place . this government be roll up our sleeve and get on with the difficult job of build the prison place necessary to keep violent offender in prison , while put victim back at the heart of our criminal justice system . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . between October 2023 and June 2024 , the last Conservative Government release 10 , 083 offender under their early release scheme , and refuse to exempt domestic abuser from early release , to the horror of survivor and victim charity . the Government have make no such exclusion from their early release scheme so far , but they have the chance to put that right via the new domestic abuse identifier that they be introduce after lot of campaigning by the Liberal Democrats and other . will the Minister today give survivor and victim charity a commitment that as soon as the identifier come into force , it will be use to exempt domestic abuser from early release , in the way that the last Government fail to ? I thank the hon . member for point out the failure of the previous Government , and their refusal to exempt domestic abuser and offender who have commit violence against woman and girl from their early release scheme ; this Government ensure that measure be in place to ensure that victim be keep safe . he will know the importance of the new domestic abuse identify tool that we be bring forward . it be a vital for identify and track datum through the criminal justice system , and it will be important as we go forward with the review that we be put in place . High Street Crime if her Department will take step to increase sentence for high street crime . this Government inherit a situation in which 10 % of offender account for 50 % of all offence , with a small number of repeat offender wreak havoc in our community and on our high street . crack down on these offender be a central part of any successful strategy to cut crime , and we will accept David Gauke ' s recommendation , particularly on the further roll - out of intensive supervision court . however , the hon . Member must accept the reality of the inheritance leave by his Government , which include an increase in sentence although they deliver only 500 prison place over their 14 year in power . South Shropshire resident would expect high street crime to be deal with , and proportionate sentencing and appropriate deterrent . how will remove short - term prison sentence achieve any of that ? the hon . Member should know that 60 % of all people who be give a short custodial sentence go on to reoffend within the year , so clearly the system that we have do not work . we can not simply sit back and keep do thing that we know result in increase reoffende in community that we all want to protect . we have to look at intervention that will make a difference . tough community punishment produce well reduction in reoffende than short sentence . we will consult member across the House as we prepare our Bill in the come week to make sure that we have a strong package of unpaid work and other measure design to toughen up community punishment . do the Lord Chancellor agree that when it come to sentencing , ancillary order , include those ban offender from shop and high street , be part of the answer ? we need the police , together with the Crown Prosecution Service , to apply for they , and when an offender appear in court , we need the court to issue those order when sentencing . my hon . friend raise an important point . he be right that so - call ancillary order , often refer to as travel ban , ban from see football and ban on the ability to go to particular area , be an important part of the package of measure that the Gauke review have recommend . we have accept those in principle and I look forward to work with my hon . friend and other colleague as we draw up our package of proposal for the upcoming sentencing Bill . I call the shadow Minister . whatever the sentence or offence , victim and family deserve a meaningful and fair route to appeal sentence that be unduly lenient . twenty - eight day for people who have experience deep trauma , when criminal get an unlimited time to appeal , be not meaningful or fair . can the Lord Chancellor explain to campaigner such as Katie Brett and Ayse Hussein from Justice for Victims why she be not willing to give they more time ? the shadow Minister should know that the Law Commission be consider the whole area of unduly lenient sentencing . it be important that we let it do its work and that it be able to look at the measure in the round and think about the consequence across the whole criminal justice system . we will review those proposal once they be make and legislate if we need to . I be afraid that that explanation will not wash . the Lord Chancellor know that she be choose to give the Government more time in her Bill ahead of the Law Commission ' s decision . why be she give herself more time , but not victim ? if the shadow Minister ever do any homework , he would know that it be always the Attorney General who have to agree and sign off on unduly lenient sentencing referral . our proposal be there to make sure that the Attorney General always have a full 28 - day period to consider and make ruling that often help victim . he will also know that the Law Commission be look at that work . the Conservative Government have 14 year ; why do they never do anything ? victim of Sexual Abuse what step her Department be take to help support victim of sexual abuse . we fund key support service , such as independent sexual violence and domestic abuse adviser . the Crown Prosecution Service have introduce victim liaison officer to ensure that victim of rape and serious sexual offence have a consistent point of contact throughout the criminal justice system . we will also provide free transcript of sentencing remark for victim of rape and serious sexual offence , and we will introduce independent legal adviser for all adult rape victim . on the last government ' s watch , the backlog of Crown court case rise to record level , leave too many victim , include those in Macclesfield , to wait year for their day in court . that backlog include victim of sexual abuse , unable to begin properly process their trauma until their trial be over and stick in a horrifying limbo . what step be the Government take to ensure that victim of sexual abuse be not leave wait for year to see justice do ? my hon . friend be right . as the House know , justice delay be justice deny . that be why this Government have double magistrate sentencing power and fund a record number of sit day . however , the scale of the challenge be beyond what increase sitting day can achieve alone . that be why we have ask Sir Brian Leveson to propose bold and ambitious reform to deliver swifter justice for victim as part of the Government ' s plan for change . in recent week , Daniel Clarke , a vile sexual offender , be sentence to seven year in prison for horrific act of sexual abuse against six vulnerable child , many with special need and many of whom be my constituent ; indeed , there be 81 suspect case . I have be contact by the family of those innocent victim , who have express outrage at the shockingly lenient sentence . I write to the Attorney General on 20 May ask for the case and the sentence to be review . I do not receive a response and have to find out through the BBC that the review be happen . nevertheless , I be pleased that the sentence be be review . will the Minister give assurance to my constituent , the House and the british public that such vile sexual predator will have the book throw at they and that protect our child be the only thing that matter ? I thank the hon . member for raise that case . I be pleased that the review be take place . victim of child sexual abuse be victim of some of the most heinous crime in our society . that be why it be important that we get on with address the recommendation of the Alexis Jay review . we be put measure in our Crime and Policing Bill and strengthen the Victims and Courts Bill to ensure that victim of such crime be put at the heart of the criminal justice system and that the perpetrator feel the full force of the law . protester : sentence what assessment she have make of the potential merit of review sentencing for peaceful protester . it be a long - stand tradition in this country that people be free to peacefully protest and demonstrate their view provide they do so within the law . when people break the law , sentencing be a matter for the court , which have a range of power to deal with offender effectively and appropriately . peaceful protest be a cornerstone of a functioning and healthy democracy , but people in Stroud and across the country feel that the legislation pass by the Conservatives in 2022 limit the right to peacefully protest . one of my constituent , Adam Beard , with whom I have work for over five year in my GP surgery , be convict and sentence to a year in prison for plan a peaceful protest . give all the prison overcrowding , will the Minister consider whether peaceful protester could at least avoid custodial sentence ? the right to peacefully protest be a cornerstone of our democracy , as my hon . friend rightly say , and this Government will protect and preserve that right . the post - legislative scrutiny of the Public Order Act 2023 begin this month , and we will carefully consider the result of that review , along with the recommendation of the independent sentencing review . while we might not agree with their method , peaceful protest can take many form , include the burning of religious text . do the Minister agree that freedom of expression must be protect and that any move by Parliament or the court to introduce a blasphemy law would undermine it ? the hon . member will be reassure to know that we do not have a blasphemy law in this country , and that be the right and proper position . wedding : Humanist Celebrants if she will take step to allow humanist celebrant to conduct legally bind wedding . humanist have long campaign to conduct legally bind wedding , and we be grateful for the contribution they make to our society . marriage be an important institution and we have to consider any change carefully . the Government will set out our position on wedding reform in due course . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I understand that minister be focus on wide marriage reform , but there be a much quick and simple process by which to enable humanist marriage , which be to act on the High Court ruling of 2020 that the current law be discriminatory . will Ministers therefore lie an order so that humanist couple and celebrant can have legal recognition for their ceremony in line with their belief , the same as their religious counterpart ? no one will be more excited to don a hat for the first legally bind humanist wedding than I . however , we must consider whether legislate to provide for humanist marriage would introduce further differential treatment in this complex area of law . that be why we need to make sure that we take the time to get this right . it would also not address other issue in marriage law that affect all group . as a responsible government , we have to consider this before we set out our position . I appreciate that mean that the hon . Lady will have to wait just a little bit long . HMP Lewes what step her Department be take to support the operation of HMP Lewes . since the disappointing inspection in 2023 , healthcare improvement funding have be put in place , as have mobile phone detection equipment to disrupt illicit activity . HMP Lewes ' s most recent inspection in 2024 be encouraging and highlight the strength of the invigorated leadership team . his Majesty ' s Prison and Probation Service be continue to closely monitor and support the prison . the late inspection of HMP Lewes find that level of violence , self - harm and drug use remain notably bad than at other reception prison , with just one third of prisoner engage in education or employment and many spending as little as two hour a day out of their cell . while the new governor have be praise for make some real improvement , the prison be still describe as be " trap in a cycle " of boredom , short - staffing and drug misuse . what specific step be the Government take to support the governor ' s effort , to ensure that these early improvement can be turn into last change ? it be important that hmpps continue to monitor the prison carefully , and the chief operate officer ' s visit on 7 May find a number of further improvement . if the hon . Gentleman want to write to I , I can send he a full update on the action be take in relation to that prison . on the topic of prison operation , we need effective scrutiny of privatised contract for prison maintenance because those contract have be detrimental for prison . will the Minister release the last Government ' s report recommend more privatisation of prison maintenance , suitably redact if necessary , for full transparency and to avoid any accusation of a cover - up ? my hon . friend will be well aware that a lot of the information be commercially confidential , but we be invest up to £ 300 million in 2025 - 26 to keep our prison be safe and secure , and we have a prison estate condition survey programme in place to well understand our estate . prison : rehabilitation what assessment she have make of the adequacy of rehabilitative programme in prison . what assessment she have make of the adequacy of rehabilitative programme in prison . what assessment she have make of the adequacy of rehabilitative programme in prison . what assessment her Department have make of the potential merit of increase support for rehabilitation programme . a key priority of this Government be that our prison rehabilitate offender , make they well citizen rather than well criminal . I take this opportunity to pay tribute to the fantastic prison staff , who mentor and support prisoner in custody every day . I see at first hand the benefit of the create future opportunity programme when I visit HMP Humber in April . prison have an important role in protect the public and punish criminal , but they be also vital to rehabilitation . give that around half of prisoner reoffend within a year of be release , what step be the Government take to ensure that programme to address mental health , addiction and education be not only available , but effective and consistently deliver across the prison estate , include in our prison in Winchester ? the hon . member be right to emphasise all those programme . they be clearly extremely important , and we publish and monitor a range of performance metric link to rehabilitative programme delivery , include employment at six week and six month post - release , or at the start of a community order , and engagement with substance misuse treatment . all those measure be in place and be properly monitor , but as always , there be more to be do in this area . in my constituency of Mid Dunbartonshire , the community justice team be have some success in prevent reoffende by work with offender in a trauma - inform way . give the success of that trauma - inform approach to rehabilitation , what discussion have the Minister have regard the differ approach that be take to offender rehabilitation across the UK ? the hon . member be right to highlight the good work go on in her constituency . as I say , I see trauma - inform activity in operation at HMP Humber . it be something we need to learn from across the prison estate . Dyslexia be vastly over - represent in the prison population . while 10 % of the general population be dyslexic , it be think that as many as half of all prisoner have dyslexia . do the Minister consider rehabilitation programme to effectively meet the specific need of dyslexic prisoner ? the hon . member be right to highlight dyslexia , and neurodiversity be common among people in our prison . that be why we have neurodiversity officer in each prison to ensure that we be do our very good for these people so that they can be rehabilitate and become well citizen when they come out of prison . the former chief inspector of prison say that LandWorks in my constituency " provide one of the good example in the country of how we can reduce reoffende , turn live around and prevent future victim . " its reoffende rate be just 6 % . the Government have announce £ 2 . 3 billion towards prison build over the next two year . when will they commit to invest in project like LandWorks that can radically reduce the prison population , transform the life of offender and cut crime ? third sector organisation like LandWorks deliver valuable rehabilitation , wellbee support and advocacy service across England and Wales , and they partner effectively with hmpps in many different way . the work of key organisation like the one the hon . member mention be incredibly important and essential in reduce reoffende , and we continue to invest in it . I would be happy to meet she to discuss the matter far and see what more can be do . lack of work be a key driver of reoffende . Derby medical manufacture company Pennine Healthcare have some offender who work for the company on day release , but it be explore a project to manufacture in prison , provide skill and potential work on release . do the Minister agree that , rather than the continue revolve door of reoffende , we need to ensure that there be both punishment and meaningful rehabilitation ? may I invite the Minister to visit and learn more about the project ? my hon . friend highlight yet another piece of excellent work that be go on across our prison estate in partnership with other organisation . again , if she write to I , I would be happy to allow my diary manager to see how my diary be perform . the north - east charity Nepacs run departure lounge across prison in the north - east , include at HMP Holme House , which serve Teesside . its work be critical in give prison leaver a central point of support to prevent reoffende and help they reintegrate into society , but the Probation Service have cut its funding and it face closure . will the Minister meet I to talk about how the increase funding that we be provide to the Probation Service can be use to protect this vital service ? my hon . friend highlight another excellent piece of work that be go on , and the difficulty in ensure that funding be effectively use as we move forward in a difficult situation due to the funding inheritance that we have from the previous Government . if he write to I about that particular case , I will be very happy to meet he . Prison have two purpose : rehabilitation and punishment . we need offender to pay back to the community and individual they have harm . I welcome my hon . friend ' s action to punish offender in the community . can I give he a list of all the pothole that need fill in Norfolk ? my hon . friend can write to I with his list of pothole , and we will see what we can do . Immigration Offences : sentence what discussion she have have with the Sentencing Council on sentence guideline for immigration offence . minister meet regularly with the chair of the Sentencing Council . on the specific guideline for immigration offence , the hon . Member will know that they set a minimum sentence , but no maximum . judge can still sentence as they see fit within the limit of what the law allow , and foreign criminal can still be deport , even if they be sentence to less than 12 month . as the shadow Justice Secretary hear when he visit on Friday , criminal gang be impose a significant cost on Hillingdon , which have the high level of asylum seeker per capita of any local authority , because the council have to support asylum seeker who have be smuggle into the UK . what plan do the Justice Secretary have to ensure that we have tough sentence that be fit for purpose , so that our community do not face this burden in the future ? I can assure the hon . Gentleman that I and colleague in the Justice Department be work closely with our colleague in the Home Department to make sure that we have a join - up approach to tackle the issue he have raise . he know that asylum be primarily a policy issue for the Home Secretary , and I will make sure that she and her team be make aware of the specific problem in Hillingdon that he have raise today . I call the shadow Justice Secretary . for the first time , the Sentencing Council have publish immigration sentencing guideline . they water down sentence pass by Parliament , which mean that hundred of illegal migrant every year will avoid the threshold for automatic deportation . once again , the Justice Secretary ' s official be in the meeting and wave the guideline through , and I have the minute to prove it . have the Justice Secretary lose control of her Department once again , or be it the case that , as the Defence Secretary say on Sunday , this Government have simply " lose control " of our border ? no ; what this Government be do be clean up the almighty mess leave to we by the previous Government , of which the right hon . Gentleman be a member . he know full well that I have already signal an intention to review the power of the Sentencing Council . we have an upcoming sentencing Bill , and I will take the action that he and his Government never do in 14 long year . [ interruption . ] he have suddenly find his voice — he do not have it for a decade or more . imprisonment for Public Protection : sentence what assessment she have make of the potential implication for her policy of the third report of the Justice Committee of Session 2022 - 23 on IPP sentence , HC 266 , publish on 22 September 2022 . we continue to support IPP offender through our update action plan , which contribute to a 9 % decrease in IPP offender in prison in the last year , but we will not put public protection at risk . the Prisons Minister in the other place and I continue to meet regularly with mps , peer and other stakeholder to work together on support this cohort . it be 12 and a half year since IPP sentence be describe as " not defensible " and be abolish for offender , but 2 , 852 people remain incarcerated under these sentence — just 74 few than in June 2022 . when the Justice Committee report in 2022 , its key recommendation be that the Government legislate to enable a resentencing exercise for these individual . will the Minister please set up an expert committee to at least advise on how to bring forward a resentence exercise urgently ? it be right and proper that IPP sentence be abolish . various organisation have consider resentence . none of they have identify an approach that would not involve release offender whom the Parole Board have determine pose too great a risk to the public . we do not wish to give false hope to those serve the sentence by establish an expert panel , but we will continue to work robustly with this group and do everything in our power to address the problem that we recognise . employment : ex - offender what step her Department be take to help support ex - offender into employment . this government ' s plan to support woman be clear and ambitious . the aim be to reduce the number of woman go to prison . our Women ' s Justice Board will support that . the independent sentencing review ' s recommendation — [ interruption . ] I be on the wrong question ; apology . [ interruption . ] well , you get a preview of the next answer , Mr Speaker . we be committed to ensure that offender leave prison with the job and skill need to lead law - abide life . that be why we have launch regional employment council , which for the first time bring business together with prison , probation and the Department for Work and Pensions to support offender in the community . we get there eventually ! employment be crucial to reduce reoffende , and data show that offender who be employ within six week of leave prison have a reoffende rate around half of those out of work . will the Minister outline how the regional employment council , include in Southport and the Liverpool city region at large , will help to drive down reoffende ? my hon . friend be absolutely right that secure employment be know to reduce the risk of reoffende significantly . the Minister for prison in the other place have lead a business with a track record of get offender into employment , and I understand that National Highways be start to build strong partnership as chair of the employment council in Manchester , Merseyside and Cheshire . I thank the Minister for his answer . to help offender into employment , they need to have the opportunity of training while in prison , and whenever they leave prison to go back into the society where they live they need someone there to oversee they and ensure they be follow the right path . will the Minister outline how the Government will ensure that that be the case ? he be a good Minister , so will he share his idea with the policing and justice Minister in Northern Ireland , to ensure that the good thing that happen here can happen in Northern Ireland as well ? I be very happy to share good practice across Northern Ireland and other region of the UK , so that we can all learn from one another , and official meet in the five nation group , as the hon . Gentleman well know . he be right to say that we need to ensure that people be support as they move into the community . that be why we be invest in probation , as my right hon . friend the Lord Chancellor say , onboarde more than 1 , 000 probation officer this year and another 1 , 300 next year . female offender what step her Department be take to support female offender . my hon . friend have have a preview of this answer ! this government ' s plan to support woman be clear and ambitious . the aim be to reduce the number of woman go to prison . our Women ' s Justice Board will support that . the independent sentencing review ' s recommendation on short , defer and suspend sentence for woman , which we have accept in principle , will reduce the number of woman in prison . we have also take decisive action by immediately accept Susannah Hancock ' s recommendation no long to place woman in young offender institution . I thank the Minister for his preview . as chair of the all - party parliamentary group on woman affect by the criminal justice system , I welcome the independent sentencing review ' s final report . I note that the review encourage the Government to consider introduce statutory defence for victim of domestic abuse , include where coercion have be a factor in their offending , to prevent unnecessarily criminalise they . will the Government look far at those proposal ? yes , the Government will look far at those proposal . the Women ' s Justice Board have be create to do exactly that sort of work , and we also have an excellent Victims Minister in my hon . friend the Member for Pontypridd ( Alex Davies - Jones ) . in March , the Government announce that girl will no long be place in young offender institution . how will the Minister monitor the implementation of that policy , and how will he ensure the public be protect from the small number of violent girl who need to be detain ? every week I get a report of the number of girl in our youth estate , so I be monitor it . there be no girl in a YOI , and there have not be since the girl who be in a YOI move out soon after we come into government . Topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . I know the House share my anger at recent attack against prison officer . after the awful event at HMP Frankland , I commission a review into the use of protective body armour , and today I can announce that I will mandate its use in close supervision centre , separation centre , and segregation unit in the high security estate . that be my initial response to the review , but I will set out further action on body armour in due course . when Jonathan Hall ' s independent review into the Frankland attack report , I will take any further step necessary to protect our brave staff . crime must be punish , but on the rare occasion that a miscarriage of justice have take place , the Criminal Cases Review Commission exist to uncover and rectify that injustice . in recent year the commission have lose the trust of the public . it must now win it back , so today I have appoint Dame Vera Baird , a former Victims ' commissioner , to be its interim chair . she will review the commission , its governance and leadership , and ensure that it deliver once more for those who have be victim of injustice . what discussion have the Government have regard the International Court of Justice ' s 2024 judgment on Israel and Palestine ? the hon . Lady will know that that be a matter primarily for the Foreign Secretary . we keep under review all judgment of all court , domestic and international , and adopt our policy position accordingly . I will ensure that her concern , if there be any , be raise directly with the Foreign Secretary . the 14 , 500 volunteer magistrate who deal with 95 % of criminal case be the backbone of our justice system . will the Lord Chancellor meet I , the Magistrates ' Association , and a group of cross - party mp who recently write to she , call for a long - service medal to be establish for justice , as well as discuss the Magistrates ' Association ' s forthcoming report on how to recruit and retain magistrate , as she increase their power and responsibility ? I be pleased to visit Telford justice centre with my hon . friend , where we meet magistrate and leader of the Magistrates ' Association . I meet the Magistrates ' Association regularly . we have a system of certification , acknowledge the vital work that magistrate do , especially long - serve magistrate who serve more than 10 , 20 or 30 year . I be happy to continue discussion with my hon . friend on how we can acknowledge and recognise that brilliant service even more . I call the shadow Secretary of State . brave prison officer be under attack , and I be warn again that , if the Government do not act now , an officer will be kill on the Justice Secretary ' s watch . after the Southport killer , Axel Rudakubana , allegedly attack an office with boiling water , he be now binge on treat such as Maltesers and Pringles . when will the Justice Secretary strip Rudakubana and monster like he of those privilege and put they in solitary confinement ? when will she finally have the back of all our brave prison officer , by give each and every one the protection that they need in the form of high - collar , stab - proof vest , and not just a privileged few in the most limited circumstance ? let I give the shadow Secretary of State a much - need education , because he appear not to know that under the Tory Government violence on staff in our prison soar and experienced officer leave in drove because of it . that be the inheritance I receive , and that be the mess that this Government be clear up . he will know that I have already act on suspend the use of self - cook facility , and Jonathan Hall be look into the HMP Frankland attack . I have make the announcement on body armour , and I will not hesitate to take any further action , but unlike he I will not take " headline - grab " measure , just for the sake of a headline . order . can I just say to both Front Benchers that Back Benchers also have to get in ? topical question have to be short and punchy . please , let we stick to the script . if the right hon . Member want to ask long question , he should come in early — I could have pick the question where he could have be bring in . last month , nine country write to the Council of Europe call for urgent reform of the european convention on human right to tackle the migration crisis . the UK be conspicuously absent , and instead the Attorney General have liken critic of the ECHR to the Nazis . the Justice Secretary be report in the press to find Lord Hermer " very frustrating " , and " personally unbearable " . well , Mr Speaker , we might have find an area of cross - party consensus , but why do the Justice Secretary not sign the letter ? be the Government irrelevant , or be she and the Prime Minister defend a broken system ? again , if the shadow Secretary of State ever pay any attention to detail , he would know that that letter be send by EU member state and we be no long a member of the European Union . let I assure he that I be absolutely committed to consider the wide picture of our human right law and I will not hesitate to take action where I need to . the backlog of Crown court case in Hampshire and the Isle of Wight reach an eight - year high last year , which have have a huge impact on victim and defendant in Aldershot and Farnborough who be struggle to get on with their life . what step be the Minister take to reduce delay in local justice for my constituent ? this Government inherit record and rise backlog . as my hon . friend describe , the human cost of that be victim wait long and long for their day in court . we have act swiftly , increase magistrate ' sentence power , but fundamental reform be need , which be why we ask Sir Brian Leveson to undertake his review . he will be report shortly and we will take his package of fundamental reform forward , to ensure that we have reform of our Crown court and swifter justice for victim . I call the spokesperson for the Liberal Democrat party . do the Secretary of State agree with the chair of the Prison Governors ' Association that the conservative proposal to arm prison officer with lethal weapon be just " headline - grab nonsense " ? do she agree that , on top of provide body armour , the serious mean to protect prison officer be by ensure that they get the year ' long training they deserve , not the week ' long crash course that the last Government leave they with ? I agree with the hon . Gentleman . again , people who pay attention to the detail will know that there be already mutual aid agreement in place between prison and local police force to ensure that if an armed response be require , it be available . I be sure that hon . member from all party will be look forward to Olivia ' s law , in memory of Olivia Pratt - Korbel , come into force , thank to a huge amount of support from my hon . friend the Member for Knowsley ( Anneliese Midgley ) , Olivia ' s family and other family . what else can be do to ensure that murderer , rapist and other violent criminal be force to answer in court for their crime ? I thank my hon . friend for that vital question . we be give judge the statutory power to order offender to attend their sentencing hearing . we be also make it clear that reasonable force can be use , where it be necessary and proportionate to do so , to ensure that any adult offender attend when order to do so . I pay tribute to the family of Jan Mustafa , Zara Aleena and Sabina Nessa , as well as to the family of Olivia Pratt - Korbel , who have all fight tirelessly to bring about this law . this be a law for all of the victim and it be in their memory that we bring it forward . across my constituency I hear the same thing from parent , school staff and youth worker : early sign of offend behaviour be often miss or not act on until it be too late ; and in rural area , stretch service and limited access to youth provision make the problem bad . give the success of the Haslemere youth hub , will the Lord Chancellor consider expand community - base justice scheme to ensure young people be not draw into the criminal justice system when they do not need to be ? the hon . Gentleman be right that those sort of scheme be exactly what be need . that be why we have increase funding for youth offend team and protect funding for the Turnaround scheme , which be highly successful in move people who be on the edge of youth crime away from crime . we be continue with that funding and we have the Young Futures prevention partnership come in . a constituent who come to see I recently be significantly impact by find out about the release of somebody who have perpetrate a non - violent but heinous crime against he . what more can we do to ensure that all victim be notify when the perpetrator be release ? my sympathy be with my hon . friend ' s constituent . it be vital that victim be notify . those victim who be currently eligible for the victim notification scheme should be give a victim liaison officer to find out about their case , but we know that there be more to do . we be bring forward a new victim notification scheme in our Victims and Courts Bill , which will for the first time provide a dedicated helpline to get such information to victim and survivor . the Secretary of State recently announce that paedophile will be castrate ahead of early release from prison , which turn out to be nothing more than take some pill that may — I repeat " may " — reduce their libido . will the Secretary of State confirm here and now that no paedophile prisoner will be release from prison early until it have be prove that the medication have effectively castrate they ? chemical suppression be a mechanism use by other jurisdiction around the world , and it have be show to work . the previous Government sit on a pilot for year on end and do nothing . I have say that I will pull every lever at our disposal to deal with sex offending once and for all . a family court judge who would have make decision in relation to many abused child be recently find guilty by the High Court of abuse their own adopt child . do the Minister agree that protect the anonymity of member of the judiciary who have abuse their child , particularly when it relate so intimately to their own work in court , risk undermine public trust in our legal system ? my hon . friend be right to highlight an absolutely appalling case , and the thought of everyone in this House be with the child who be victim of that abuse . the independent judiciary have rule on this . this government believe in transparency in our family court , and that be why we be work to expand the use of transparency order , but we have to respect the independence of our judiciary , which have rule in this particular case , not least for the reason of protect the child in that case . Lord Hermer say that we be not even try to reform the convention . why not ? I do not know what the right hon . Member be refer to , because the Government have already announce that we be consider the way in which our human right law be apply in immigration case . I be the policy owner for the european convention on human right , and I be consider its application within our domestic law as well . I do not know what other reassurance he need . I welcome the Lord Chancellor ' s commitment to tighten up exclusion zone . Knowsley have some of the high rate of domestic abuse in the country , so that kind of action will be important for victim . do she agree that an offender ' s freedom should never come before a victim ' s right to feel and be safe ? my hon . friend raise such an important point . I have be strike by so many meeting with victim in which they feel that the exclusion zone , as currently construct , effectively make they constrain , rather than the offender . that be why I want to move to restriction zone for offender , and we will bring forward our proposal in the upcoming sentencing Bill . rural community often find it even more difficult to access legal aid provider than in urban area . what step be the Minister take to help to provide access to legal aid to people in rural area ? it be vital that those who need legal aid — some of the most vulnerable people in our society — can access it . we be fund provision such as Advicenow , which be an online provision . we also ensure through our contracting process through the legal aid Agency that there be provision right across the country to ensure that no one , include those in rural area , struggle to access legal aid . my constituent Claire Ball be sexually abuse as a child . as an adult , she face her abuser in court . he be allow to provide character reference . her good character be call into question , yet she be not allow character reference . will my hon . friend take step to rectify this unfairness for victim such as Claire ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that vital point . this government be look at character reference carefully , and we will bring forward information on that in due course . my constituent ' s child be the victim of a serious sexual offence several year ago . by the time the case come to trial next year , it will have be nearly half a decade since the assault take place . do the Lord Chancellor think that that be an appropriate length of time for a child to have to wait to seek justice ? what word of comfort can she give to my constituent ? the hon . Lady highlight an absolutely appalling case . if she be ask whether I think that be acceptable , the answer be no . as my hon . friend the Victims Minister say , justice delay be justice deny . it be for that reason that we have ask Sir Brian Leveson to recommend bold and fundamental reform . the hon . Lady have just describe the human consequence of the Crown court backlog that we inherit from the past Government , and we will fix the mess . last week I visit Meadow Road youth centre to see the fantastic work that Lloyd and other youth worker be do to provide an outlet for young people . however , it could be close down due to funding uncertainty . do the Minister agree that sporting centre such as that reduce youth offend and be hub for rehabilitation ? will my hon . friend commit to Dudley get its fair share of funding and to keep the centre open ? centre such as the one that my hon . friend describe in her constituency do excellent work and help to reduce youth offending . if she write to I about the case that she refer to , I will look into it . my constituent Charlotte — a victim of abuse herself — have long campaign for justice through transcript and highlight how they can help victim to move forward with their life . how can we ensure that victim be provide with sentencing remark even if the accuse be acquit in a rape case ? the Ministry of Justice currently provide free sentencing remark for victim of murder and manslaughter . as of last month , we have make permanent our pilot to provide those sentencing remark to victim of rape . the hon . Lady will understand that provide full transcription be a costly exercise , which be why we be undertake testing of artificial intelligence to make transcript available in future in a low - cost and timely manner . at just 12 year old , my constituent be subject to horrific abuse by a family member who be ultimately convict of nine offence , include four count of rape . the offender be sentence in youth court to just a three - year referral order and a two - year restraining order . my constituent can not appeal this sentence under the unduly lenient sentence scheme simply because of the court in which the case be hear . will the Minister review this deeply troubling case and consider extend the unduly lenient sentence scheme to include youth court rape conviction ? I hope that my hon . friend hear the early answer on the unduly lenient sentence scheme and the review by the Law Commission , but if he write to I with the specific of that case , I will make sure that we look into it . as of 1 May this year , there be seven biological male in HMP Downview , a woman ' s prison in my constituency . can the Secretary of State confirm when they will be move out ? the hon . Lady will be aware that those seven biological male be on e wing , which be a transgender - only facility . we will review the recent Supreme Court ruling and make sure that we be compliant in everything we do go forward . we have inherit a policy that we support in opposition . it be a strong act by the last government , but we will build on that follow the Supreme Court ' s recent ruling . a recent freedom of information request show that between January 2022 and March 2024 , 52 prison staff be recommend for dismissal due to breach of security . however , ten time that number resign over similar breach . what action have the Minister take to strengthen training , oversight and accountability across the Prison Service to address this worrying trend and prevent further security failure ? Prison officer do an amazingly positive job in our prison . occasionally , prison officer let themselves down , and those case be properly look at . we continue to keep a tight look , and we learn from any issue that occur . be the Justice Secretary content that her Department spend more than half a billion pound every year lock up criminal who belong in other country ? I be content that this Government have deport more foreign national offender than the previous Government . I be content that we have accept the finding of the Gauke review , and we will be bring the early removal scheme threshold from 50 % down to 30 % to make that sure more foreign offender be eligible for removal from our country . sadly , some of my constituent have experience a double blow , not only from have defective cavity wall insulation instal , but from be pursue for adverse legal cost by firm such as SSB Law . minister have previously confirm that the Solicitors Regulation Authority have open an investigation . will the Minister provide an update on that investigation and meet I to discuss how those affect can get redress ? once again , I be sorry to hear about the impact that the collapse of SSB Law have have on my hon . friend ' s constituent and the many other affect . as she say , the Solicitors Regulation Authority be complete an investigation into the collapse . disciplinary notice have be issue to several individual and further decision be expect before the summer . I be happy to provide she with a write update as that investigation be conclude . I refer the House to my declaration in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . litigation finance play a key role in the legal system in the UK and provide opportunity for postmaster and other to take case to court . the Civil Justice Council have just publish its report on the sector . when will the Government respond to that report ? I thank the right hon . member for his question , and I thank the Civil Justice Council for its work . he will understand that we have not yet have a chance to fully digest the report , but we anticipate act on its recommendation in fairly short order . I call the Chair of the Justice Committee . Lord Ponsonby tell the Justice Committee in February that the Government will set out a public position on reform of wedding law , include humanist marriage , in the next few month . the Minister have say much the same today , but when will it happen , and will it include reform of current cohabitation law , which disadvantage million of couple ? I thank the Chair of the Justice Committee for that important question . he will know that our manifesto commit to reform cohabitation law , and we will be bring forward that reform shortly . the Law Commission ' s report make 57 recommendation for reform of wedding law , include enable non - religious group such as humanist to conduct legally bind wedding , and we will be bring forward information on our package of reform shortly . recently , I attend a service mark 40 year since William Heenan be murder by the IRA for be a protestant . while we honour his memory , the self - proclaim " First Minister for all " in Northern Ireland be visit the newly erect statue of IRA terrorist Bobby Sands , glorify the movement responsible for the cold - blooded murder of man such as William . will the Minister agree to meet I and innocent victim from Northern Ireland regard the review and improvement of the glorification of terrorism legislation that apply to Northern Ireland ? as I think the hon . Lady will be aware , that be primarily a policy area for our colleague in the Northern Ireland Office , but I will make sure that we raise those issue with they . [ Official Report , 1 September 2025 ; Vol . 772 , c . 1wc . ] ( Correction ) yesterday , a man be convict of a public order offence after burn a Koran outside the turkish embassy . the judge say that the fact that the man be attack be proof that he be guilty of disorderly behaviour . this be grotesque , and mean that in effect , we have a blasphemy law . do the Justice Secretary believe that this should hold , or will the Government back my Bill to put an end to all of this madness next week ? we do not have a blasphemy law , and we be not go to have a blasphemy law in this country . as the hon . Gentleman will be aware , I believe that that specific case be go to be subject to an appeal , so it would be inappropriate for I or any other Minister to comment on the detail of the matter . however , I be sure that once all other channel be exhausted and we have a final resolution , we will be debate these matter in detail in this House . Thames Water ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs if he will make a statement on Thames Water ' s financial situation . I thank the right hon . Lady for secure this urgent question . I want to begin by make clear that Thames Water remain stable , and the Government be carefully monitor the situation . customer can be assure that there will be no disruption to water supply . Thames Water be a commercial entity currently engage in an equity raise , and KKR pull out of that process early today . as Thames Water have say , the company will continue to work with its creditor as part of the equity raise to improve its financial position . there remain a market - lead solution on the table , and we expect the company and its director to continue the process that be under way and fix the financial resilience of the company in the interest of its customer . I want to be clear that the Government be prepare for all eventuality across our regulated industry and stand ready to intervene through the use of a special administration regime , should this be require to ensure the continue provision of vital public service . the situation face Thames be take place within a wide context . only last year , we see record level of pollution in our river , lake and sea . it be clear that our water system be break . we have already pass legislation so that the regulator can ban the undeserved multimillion - pound bonus that so outrage the public , and we have far strengthen accountability through the introduction of up to two year in prison for pollute water boss who break the law . we have increase the regulator ' s resource and launch a record 81 criminal investigation into water company , and we have follow the " polluter pay " principle , mean that company that be successfully prosecute will pay for the cost of that prosecution so that further prosecution can follow . we have work with the water company to secure £ 104 billion of private sector investment to rebuild our broken water infrastructure . that mean new sewage pipe , few leaking pipe , and new reservoir across the country , as we work to end the sewage scandal that we inherit from the previous Government . I launch the Independent Water Commission , under Sir Jon Cunliffe , so that it could outline recommendation for a once - in - a generation opportunity to transform our water industry and ensure that it deliver the service that the public deserve and our environment need , and today Sir Jon publish an interim report set out the commission ' s preliminary conclusion . the Government will respond in full to the commission ' s final report in due course , and will outline further step to benefit customer , attract investment and clean up our waterway . whether we be talk about Thames Water or about other company serve other part of the country , the era of profit from pollution be over . this government will clean up our waterway for good . thank you , Mr Speaker , for grant this urgent question . may I begin by correct the Secretary of State ? when he refer to private sector investment , he be in fact refer to the bill increase that each and every one of we will pay — £ 31 a year — so when he talk about private sector investment , he mean bill payer ' investment . some 16 million resident and bill payer will have be concern by this morning ' s news that the private equity firm KKR have pull out of its rescue deal with Thames Water . accord to a source close to KKR , one of the reason it pull out be its concern about negative rhetoric direct at Thames Water and the rest of the industry in recent week by the Secretary of State and other Ministers . in other word , the Secretary of State and his Ministers have talk themselves out of this rescue deal . I be bind to say , if only they could do the same thing with the Chagos island deal . on which date do the Secretary of State discover that KKR be think of pull out of this deal , and what involvement do he have in the phone call over the weekend between KKR and no . 10 spad to try to rescue it ? I ask because in recent week there have be briefing to the press that he be consider temporary renationalisation . the Treasury have apparently instruct he that he will need to find up to £ 4 billion from the budget of the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs to cover the cost of this manoeuvre . let I put that in context : the entire farming budget for this year be roughly £ 2 . 5 billion . can the Secretary of State therefore explain the option to which he have just refer , and do they include a plan for temporary renationalisation ? from which budget would a temporary renationalisation come : defra or central fund ? that question be particularly relevant in view of the upcoming spending review , on which there have be detail briefing , include the suggestion that the DEFRA budget be to be slash . the Secretary of State refer to the Cunliffe report , which we will of course look at very carefully , but can he confirm — this recall yesterday ' s shambolic defence review announcement — that there be no funding for this late review , and that it will do nothing to resolve the immediate issue of Thames Water ' s solvency , which he have mishandle , just as he have mishandle the family farm tax , the fishing industry and the sustainable farming incentive ? I be grateful to the shadow Secretary of State for make it clear to the House that she do not understand the principle of private sector investment , and neither be it particularly clever to stand at the Opposition Dispatch Box and make up figure to attack . this government stand ready for all eventuality , but I will make no apology for tackle the poor behaviour of water company and water company executive that take place under the previous Government and that we be correct . we even hear story , which have be confirm to I by water company , of previous Conservative Secretaries of State shout and scream at water company boss but not actually change the law to do anything about the bonus that they be able to pay themselves . this government be take action , work with customer , water company and investor to ensure that we have a successful water sector that work for the environment , customer and investor in a way that it completely fail to do under the previous Conservative Government . let I begin by draw member ' attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . let we be clear that the collapse of KKR ' s rescue deal be not a blip ; it be a reckoning — a moment that expose the complete bankruptcy of the privatised water model . this morning ' s interim Cunliffe review of the water sector confirm the scale of the crisis . it describe our water system — a regulated statutory monopoly — as be too risky for investor now . it do not seem to be too risky when shareholder be siphon off billion in dividend while let the pipe rot , the river choke and the debt pile up . the only people truly at risk now be bill payer , who face a 35 % real - term price hike in the next five year — and not just to fund clean water or climate resilience , because half of it be to boost investor return . so I ask my right hon . friend again : when will the Government stop fiddle , put Thames Water into special administration , strip out the debt , and begin the job of return our water system — not just Thames Water — to public ownership ? order . Mr Lewis , I be very generous in bring you in so early , but I do not expect you to make a statement yourself . I thank my hon . friend for his question . I reassure he that the Government stand ready for any eventuality and will take action as require . we be not look at nationalisation because it would cost over £ 100 billion of public money , which would have to be take away from other public service , such as the national health service , to be give to the owner of the water company . it would take year to unpick the current model of ownership , during which time pollution would get bad . we know that nationalisation be not the answer , because we need only look at the situation in Scotland to see that . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . under the Conservatives , Thames Water be allow to pile up nearly £ 20 billion of debt while pump sewage into river and lake for 300 , 000 hour just last year , but reward its shareholder with £ 130 million of dividend . today , Thames Water ' s customer have be leave in the lurch , and the Conservatives seem to think it be because we have all be a bit too mean about Thames Water . the price must not be pay by the customer . will the Secretary of State ensure that those who be responsible for make dreadful decision rightly bear the cost instead ? be it not right for the company now to go into special administration , and to emerge from administration as a public interest company ? be it not also right that all water company , include the like of United Utilities in the north - west , move to a public interest model , so that care for the environment matter more than profit ? my hon . friend the Member for Witney ( Charlie Maynard ) have do more to hold Thames Water to account than Ofwat , this Government or their predecessor . do that not prove that regulation have fail , and that Ofwat should be abolish , with a new , powerful clean water authority give the power to clean up our lake and river , and our industry ? I thank the hon . member for his question . there be a procedure to be follow for special administration , and we stand ready should that be require , in this case or any other case involve the regulated industry . he may have have a chance today to look at the interim report , on which Sir Jon Cunliffe be invite comment ahead of the final report in about a month . that report will form the basis of future legislation to fix the regulatory mess we inherit from the conservative party . only the Conservatives could come here and defend Thames Water . the rest of the country have see what an appalling performance this company have give during the 35 year since privatisation . I think it be time we put this company out of its misery , but we must do so in a way that do not bring the debt it have run up on to the taxpayer or the bill payer . can my right hon . friend say whether one of his option be prepare for that eventuality ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . we be prepare for every eventuality , as I have outline , and we will take whatever action be necessary to ensure the continue supply of water to customer in the Thames Water region and elsewhere . I call the Chair of the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee . under the £ 3 billion loan that Thames Water have negotiate , the first drawdown of £ 1 . 5 billion will be on 30 June , which be less than four week away . that be contingent on Thames Water have a lock - up agreement in respect of a recapitalisation transaction , but it now have no partner to provide that . it of course choose to proceed with just one option , which have now walk away . who do the Secretary of State think that Thames Water will now turn to — it be not exactly go to be negotiate from a position of strength — and what be the Government go to do if it can not meet that 30 June deadline ? there remain a market - lead solution on the table , and we expect Thames Water to follow through with the process to ensure it be able to fix the problem it be currently face . my constituent and other Thames Water user be feed up to the back tooth with have to pay more to help this company , which have fail they so badly . obviously , the Secretary of State have to have special administration on the table , but we know that would be hugely costly to the taxpayer . I know it be hard to talk about hypothetical , but if he do go down that route , will he have the cost to individual customer front and centre , so they do not actually have to pay more for that process ? yes , I absolutely agree with my hon . friend . I share her anger at the fact that bill rise be so high this year , but that be because the conservative party do not take the necessary action to ensure that the water system be properly maintain . as anyone who have ever own or live in a house will know , if people see a crack in a wall and leave it for 10 year without fix it , the problem get much bad and the cost of repair it be much more . in a very real sense , the public have be leave to pay the price of Tory failure . will the Secretary of State confirm that the Government will ensure that Thames Water stand by its commitment to upgrade our sewage network in South Buckinghamshire ? specifically , will he ensure that the upgrade promise for the Little Marlow sewage treatment work in my constituency be deliver on time ? I be happy to give the hon . member that reassurance . the Government expect Thames Water to carry through on the full range of programme agree as part of the last price review process . my constituent have be comprehensively fail by Thames Water for many year . we see the catastrophic flood in Herne Hill in 2013 , when many local business have to close permanently . vulnerable customer be let down during the " beast from the east " freeze - thaw event , be leave without water for day and day at a time . there be endless roadwork in the same location where it have repeatedly fail to invest adequately in its infrastructure . now my constituent be see bill go up by way more than the Ofwat determination . it be clear that this organisation be not fit for purpose . what option be my right hon . friend consider to bring this misery to an end , and to put customer back at the heart of Thames Water ' s operation ? I thank my hon . friend for her question . I be sure that she will have see today the interim report from Sir Jon Cunliffe ' s water commission , which outline his initial thought on how to fix the broken regulatory system . the Government have also increase compensation from what we inherit from the previous Government , so her constituent who suffer from the kind of problem she outline can expect far well compensation as a result of this Government ' s action . I declare an interest as a Thames Water customer . the reality be that Thames Water be bankrupt . it can not pay its debt and it can not meet its legal obligation to Ofwat , the state and its customer . therefore , surely the right thing to do be to put it out of its misery , and put it into special administration for £ 1 . the shareholder and the debt holder know — caveat emptor — that they have all blow their dough . if the Government buy it for £ 1 , which would be a good deal for the taxpayer , it will not have to pay huge , egregious rate of interest and taxpayer and customer will be the beneficiary . I respectfully point out to the hon . Gentleman that reform care so much about the problem face our water system that it do not mention it even once in its general election manifesto . what he be propose — nationalise the water sector — would cost in excess of £ 100 billion , which be money that Reform would have to take away from the service , such as the national health service , on which his constituent rely . I think they would be very ill - serve by he if he be to take away that funding , and push up the waiting list we have just start to see come down as a result of this Government ' s investment . as a neighbouring mp , the Secretary of State will know the level of outrage in my constituency at the continuous failure of Thames Water , include the five - day period early this year during which resident be leave without water . give that this Labour Government have introduce measure to make pollute water company executive criminally liable and to ban unjustified bonus , do he agree that we be finally see accountability bring back to the water sector ? I thank my hon . friend , and indeed neighbour , for his question , and I know what a strong water champion he be on behalf of his constituent . his constituent , much like everybody else ' s , will now benefit from increase compensation when there be failure . I agree with he that one of the problem we inherit from the previous Government be have a fail system with no accountability at all , so it be quite right that we have introduce new criminal liability and potentially prison time for pollute water boss , and that we have give the regulator the power to ban the unfair and undeserved multimillion - pound bonus they get away with under the Conservatives . do the Secretary of State agree with Thames Water ' s own expert adviser Teneo — on page 193 of the expert advice report — that the ultimate cost to the government if the company go into special administration will be zero ? the point be that there be a market - lead solution on the table and I expect Thames Water to follow through on that . it be possible for an american private equity company to walk away from Thames Water , but my constituent can not . when water company boss fail , it be our resident who pay : in sewage discharge into river and in their crumble pipe and drainage . I be therefore glad that the Government have take bonus off of fail boss , but what more can the Government do to tilt incentive towards investment in our infrastructure so that my constituent get some relief ? the problem that my hon . friend point to are to do with a lack of investment throughout the entire period of the previous Government , so I be delighted that just before Christmas we secure a commitment to £ 104 billion of private sector investment . that be the single big investment in our water sector in its entire history and will be the second big private sector investment into any part of the economy under this Government . we be serious about clear up the Conservatives ' sewage mess . Thames Waters be a massive stakeholder in my constituency , and the big landowner . we have half of London ' s drink water in four raise reservoir and we have a fair chunk of the Thames , from Staines to Sunbury . for 11 month now , I have be try to get a meeting with Thames Water . I appreciate that it have have one or two other thing on its mind recently , but can the Secretary of State use his good office to encourage Thames Water to meet I ? I agree with the hon . Gentleman ; the water company — Thames Water and all the other — should of course engage with mp who be seek to represent the interest of their constituent . I would be very happy to approach Thames Water on his behalf to ensure that he get the meeting he seek . my constituent , like those of my colleague , be gravely concerned about the increase in their water bill , but I be also as concerned as they about the impact on business . Crayford town centre be close again last month — the third year on the trot — because of rot infrastructure . what assurance can the Secretary of State give to my constituent that no matter what happen , we will continue to invest in infrastructure to ensure that those kind of closure finally end ? my hon . friend will be aware of the action we have take through the Water ( Special Measures ) Act 2025 to give the regulator the power it need to ban the unjustified bonus that water boss be able to pay themselves under the previous Government . the era where they could profit from pollution end when that Government end . the Green party have campaign for the public ownership of water since the year dot , unlike certain cynical opportunist behind I on the Reform Benches . we know allow privatised monopoly to control water leave infrastructure crumbling , waterway run with sewage , sky - high bill , and shareholder laugh all the way to the bank . give this obscene and fundamental failure , why will the Government not even consider bring water back into public hand , where it belong ? the problem face the water sector be to do with failure of governance and regulation . we need to tackle the actual problem , not the imagine one . if we be to seek to nationalise the water sector , that would cost in excess of £ 100 billion that would have to be take away from service such as the national health service or education . it would take year to unpick the current model of ownership , during which time there would be no investment and water pollution would get bad . from the example of Scotland , we know that nationalisation be not the answer , because there be also problem with pollution there . we will ensure that our priority be pure water , not the purity of the hon . Lady ' s ideology . as Thames Water dump sewage into the Cut and the Blackwater in my constituency , the Conservative Government wash their hand not in it , but of it . this government be act to ban bonus , to issue the big fine we have see from Ofwat and to bring in criminal liability . as we seek more action to get to grip with the Thames Water crisis , will the Secretary of State commit to put two thing at the forefront of his mind : first , our environment and clean the sewage ; and , secondly , make sure that customer and our constituent get a fair deal ? I be sure my hon . friend will be pleased to know that we have launch 81 criminal investigation into water company for pollution and other failing — a dramatic increase on what we inherit from the previous Government . I be sure he will recall that they cut the resource to the regulator in half . despite the appalling financial inheritance , we increase resource by 9 % at the Budget and we have now introduce the polluter pay principle , so that where there be a successful prosecution of a water company , that company will pay the price of the investigation , so that further investigation and prosecution can follow . Thames Water be teeter on the brink , investor be run for the hill and my constituent be pay the price for its mismanagement through soar bill . all the while , it be spend hundred of million of pound on a propose sewage recycling project at Teddington lock on the River Thames in my constituency , which will at well be use every two year and which some cynic suggest be design entirely to boost its balance sheet . this morning , the Secretary of State commit to my constituent Ian McNuff that he would come and visit the site to look at the impact of the propose project . will he reiterate that commitment today ? my hon . friend and neighbour the Member for Richmond Park ( Sarah Olney ) and I would be delighted to welcome he . as I say to the hon . Lady ' s constituent , I would be happy to visit if my diary allow . in any case , I would be very happy to ensure she get a meeting with the Minister for Water to discuss her concern around Teddington . do the Secretary of State agree that it come to something when the opposition seem to be suggest that Thames Water should maybe not be sanction , because that may put its preferred bidder at risk , when it have reject other ? Jon Cunliffe suggest strong regulation , not weak . be it not clear that the direction that this Government be go in must be the right one ? I agree . the whole mess we inherit be due to the previous Government let the water company get away with it ; people be pay themselves multimillion - pound bonus as they profit from pollution . that end when the Conservative Government be defeat . we be put the water company under tough special measure and we will focus they on serve their customer and the environment , not themselves . do the Secretary of State think that the situation might improve if Thames Water executive be oblige to sign up to performance - relate pay ? that be a very interesting proposal . I hope the right hon . Gentleman will suggest it to Sir Jon Cunliffe , who be currently look at a well way to regulate . I note the Secretary of State ' s reluctance to entertain public ownership , but I draw his attention to research from the University of Greenwich that show that bring water into public ownership would pay for itself within about seven year and that , after that , it would save the public purse up to £ 2 . 5 billion a year . be the Secretary of State aware that immediately bring Thames Water into special administration and permanent public ownership would cut the company ' s massive debt mountain in half , stop the payment of huge dividend and debt payment into the future , and within just several year actually start turn a profit for the people of this country ? I beg to slightly correct my hon . friend . special administration be not nationalisation and nationalisation would cost in excess of £ 100 billion — money we would have to take away from other public service to hand to the boss of the water company who cause this mess in the first place . I do not think taxpayer would welcome that . I receive a note in my inbox today from the Government engagement lead for north Thames valley that say that Thames Water will run out of money in summer 2026 . will the Government commit to take Thames Water into special administration and unburden the company of its debt via its creditor , or will Members be require to block their diary for summer 2026 for another recess recall ? as I be sure the hon . Gentleman be aware , there be procedure to follow that would require any regulated company to go into special administration . as thing stand , Thames Water remain stable and there be a market - lead solution on the table . we expect Thames Water to follow through on that . this be another example of the previous Government ' s failure to get a grip of our water system . meanwhile , just last week this government fine Yorkshire Water £ 350 , 000 . my constituent be really upset to see their water bill go up . can my right hon . friend assure I that he will never let our national infrastructure get as bad as those on the Conservative Benches do ? absolutely ; we intend to clear up the mess the previous Government make . the fine that my hon . friend refer to — indeed , there have be other — be the result of the additional criminal investigation we have launch , which follow on from the additional resource we have give the regulator so that it can investigate what be go wrong and then take action . what a difference between this Labour Government , who be put our water company under special measure , and the previous Government , who let they get away with it and line their pocket . I find it deeply depressing to hear the Secretary of State say that somehow or other there be a market solution there for Thames Water . we have have 35 year of excessive profit , pollution and rise bill . he know he will have to take Thames Water into public ownership at some point . he quote this strange figure of £ 100 billion in compensation , but surely if we take it into public ownership , Parliament would set the price at which we would purchase the company , take into account excessive profit , pollution , damage and the destruction of so many people ' s live through the way Thames Water have behave . will the Secretary of State be tough with it for once and say that water be a human right , and that it should be publicly own and publicly run ? water be indeed a human right , which be why this government be take every step necessary to sort out the broken water system that we inherit from the previous Government . the situation at Thames Water be deeply disturbing , and in my constituency of Camborne , Redruth and Hayle — the home of Surfers Against Sewage — there be now deep anxiety that this commercial insecurity will spread . with only three prosecution and no meaningful penalty under the previous Government , be it not clear that the Conservatives prioritise the polluter instead of protect the environment and customer ? my hon . friend give I the opportunity to congratulate Surfers against Sewage on its fantastic work highlight the failure of the water sector under the previous Government . I be sure both my hon . friend and the charity will welcome the 81 criminal investigation we have launch in order to find out where lawbreaking be happen , to take action against it and to hold those who be responsible accountable for once . in this Chamber in September , I call for Thames Water to be put into special administration in order to protect my constituent . a portion of the bill they have pay since then have go on lawyer and consultant to put together a deal that have collapse . the Liberal Democrats — unlike the Conservatives , who continue to bury their head in the sand — have fight against throw more good money after bad , and more and more debt . the Government do not act in September . will they act now , put we all out of our misery and put Thames Water into special administration ? as I have say , the Government stand ready for all eventuality , should they be need . I refer the House to my register voluntary interest . over a year ago , I speak to one of the then big investor in Thames Water , and I be strike by the fact that they say they have never be in a room with the regulator , other investor or the Government . I know it be difficult commercially , but I urge the Secretary of State , in try to resolve this issue rapidly , to use his good office and do as much as possible in the background to bring all the stakeholder to the good result . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his question ; I think what he be refer to , in the round , be the failure of the regulatory system and , indeed , the regulator . he will have see that Sir Jon Cunliffe point to exactly the same problem in his interim report , publish today . as we work towards the final report , publish in about a month , Sir Jon be start to point to solution , and I be sure he will want to pay attention to the right hon . Gentleman ' s comment . the british public be not fool — they know when the emperor have no clothe and , indeed , when a regulator have no tooth . Ofwat have fail , just as Thames Water have fail . will the Government now act on the Independent Water Commission ' s finding , publish today , scrap Ofwat and replace it with a regulator that can end this crisis , which have be decade in the making ? we be work towards reset the entire regulatory framework , as the hon . Gentleman may have see from Sir Jon Cunliffe ' s report , publish today . he be absolutely right , though : under the previous Government , the regulator be absolutely toothless . that be why one of the first piece of legislation this Government pass be the Water ( Special Measures ) Act 2025 , which give the regulator the power it lack previously to ban the unfair and unjustified multimillion - pound bonus that so outrage the public as those company profit from pollution . I thank the Secretary of State for his comment on continuity of service , which will provide some reassurance to my constituent . Thames Water have fail my constituent time and again ; clearly , it need investment . what be he do to ensure that there be the confidence to invest in our water sector ? the hon . Gentleman make a good point . part of make the sector more investable be ensure that we have a robust , clear and predictable regulatory framework , which be what Sir Jon Cunliffe be work towards . the hon . Gentleman may have have a chance to look at the interim report that Sir Jon publish today ; if he have not , I recommend it to he . that be the way we create an investable water sector and bring in the money that will allow we to fix our broken water system once and for all . I draw attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . my constituent Bruno live in Charlton - on - Otmoor . when it rain heavily , sewage flow into his garden , which be within sight of a pumping station that fail every single time . one third of bill pay to Thames Water by Bruno and other customer be use to service the company ' s debt ; that money should instead be invest , and should go towards improve pumping station like the one near Bruno ' s garden . why will the Secretary of State not recognise that Thames be financially unviable , bring it into special administration , write down the debt and ensure that the future company serve the public interest ? the hon . Gentleman point with a graphic example to what happen when we face the scale of regulatory failure that develop untroubled under the previous Government . that be why Sir Jon Cunliffe have bring forward his report today , which I hope the hon . Gentleman will read ; I hope he will also provide Sir Jon with feedback , which he be ask for ahead of his final report in a month ' s time . I remind the hon . Gentleman that the Government have help to secure £ 104 billion of private sector investment by the conclusion of the price review period . that will be use to upgrade exactly the kind of facility that he point to , which be let down his constituent and mine , and those of everyone else in the House . with a third of customer ’ bill go to service Thames Water ' s debt , my constituent be feed up of pay high bill for Thames Water ' s mistake . will the Government agree to put Thames Water into special measure to save my constituent and bill payer money ? it be only a matter of time for Thames Water ; will the Secretary of State act now and save people money ? I share the hon . gentleman ' s anger that the public have be leave to pay the price of Tory failure over 14 year . one of the first thing I do when I be appoint Secretary of State be get the water company chief exec into my office , seven day after the election . I get they to commit to ringfence customer ' money that be earmark for investment , so that it can never again be divert to pay bonus and dividend in the way that it be under the previous Conservative Government . I call the Member for Strangford — on water , no less . I thank the Secretary of State for his answer , and for his perseverance on this subject . he will understand that it be disappointing in the extreme to hear that public funding may have to be use to bail out this company . give that it have some 8 , 000 british employee and serve 25 % of the UK population , government attention be very urgently need . what step will be take to ensure that this be not money down the drain , to use a pun , and that we instead reconstruct a viable concern that take a modern approach ? do the Department have a team ready and able to step up and achieve that goal ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . we be ready for every eventuality , and there be team in place to carry this out . let I reassure he that I have no intention of use public money to bail out this company ; we be look for a market - lead solution to its challenge . I thank he for his kind personal word — we will all keep persevere until we have clean up our waterway for good . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . it be not to continue the argument , be it ? indicate dissent . okay , shadow Secretary of State . let we see if it be a point of order . it be just to correct the record , Mr Speaker . the Secretary of State have give the impression in his answer — without , I be sure , intend to — that the investigation of which he be very proud , from July last year , be a direct result of Labour win the election in July . that be simply incorrect . as I have draw to his attention on Twitter , courtesy of a press release on 20 February last year , we in fact invest some £ 55 million in further investigation , which be the — Order . I be not responsible for the correction . you have certainly put the matter on the record . the Secretary of State may want to come back ; if not , we will move on . point of order on a point of order , Mr Speaker . as the House will know , Laila Soueif stop eat 247 day ago to try to save her son , the imprison british - egyptian national , Alaa Abd el - Fattah . he be an Amnesty International prisoner of conscience who have be in jail for more than a decade because of his writing on democracy . Laila be now at risk of death . have you have any indication of whether the Foreign Secretary will come to the House to inform we about what action the Government be take to secure Alaa ' s urgent release ? I thank the hon . member for give notice of her point of order . I have have no message to say that a member of the Government will be come to the House today , but what she have say be certainly on the record . I know , too , that the Prime Minister take notice of the question on this subject that be put to he , and I be sure that those on the Government Front Bench will have hear what the hon . Member have say . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . yesterday , follow the publication of the hard copy of the strategic defence review , I inform you that I be aware that at least two major defence company have be give a copy of that document at 8 am yesterday morning . look at what happen on the market , I notice that the share price of one of those company spike very sharply at exactly that time . we do not know exactly what that can be attribute to , but you will be aware that the " Ministerial Code " say very clearly , on the publication of White Papers and consultation paper , that " where commercially sensitive material be involve , no copy should be make available to the medium before publication . " presumably , that be to avoid this sort of effect from the receipt of privileged information that be not make available to other company . Mr Speaker , I seek your advice on how to pursue this matter far . have you hear from the Government on whether they will make a statement , or take any step to investigate these matter ? I have have no indication that Ministers intend to come to the House to make a statement . what the shadow Secretary of State have say be on the record , and I know that he will not give up on this . I suspect that he will be on his way to the Table Office to see what advice he can be give on pursue this matter . Royal Fleet Auxiliary ( report on Commissioner ) Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to make provision for a report on the potential merit of appoint a commissioner to consider , investigate and make recommendation to address welfare issue face by personnel serve in the Royal Fleet Auxiliary and their family . this year mark the 120th anniversary of the Royal Fleet Auxiliary , which be found in 1905 . in those 120 year , RFA personnel have develop a proud sense of independence . they be non - military merchant navy sailor who support and supply the Royal Navy and the Royal Marines , and they have a steadfast dedication to public service . much of their work happen behind the scene — they do not often make the headline — but they be vital to UK defence , maritime power , and humanitarian and disaster relief . the RFA refuel warship at sea . it deliver ammunition , supply , food and water , and it transport Royal Marines and equipment to where they be need . RFA ship be in the Falklands , Kosovo , the first Gulf war , Iraq and Afghanistan . RFA personnel be not armed combatant , but they be deploy in war zone and they face danger . recent RFA deployment have include : anti - narcotics mission in the Caribbean , the persian gulf and the indian ocean ; the provision of disaster relief to Haiti , follow earthquake in 2010 and 2021 ; anti - people smuggling operation in the mediterranean ; and the provision of humanitarian aid to Gaza . the RFA Proteus be instrumental in respond to the security threat pose by the russian vessel Yantar in the North sea last November . respond to this sort of " grey zone " security threat , especially to subsea energy and communication infrastructure , be an increase part of Royal Navy and RFA work to enhance national maritime security . as RFA ship be maintain at the port of Falmouth , in my constituency , and call it their home , I have become accustomed to see they sail in and out of Falmouth bay . I remember watch the RFA Argus depart in September 2014 to deploy off the west coast of Africa during the Ebola pandemic . she provide crucial medical equipment , supply and food , and transport doctor , nurse and military personnel . on her return , she be honour with an Admiralty Board letter of commendation . I have highlight these example to show how important and varied RFA operation be . RFA personnel be , without doubt , incredibly hard - work , committed and courageous , but due to the unique nature of their service , they often do not receive the same level of protection and recognition as the rest of the force . in recent year , the RFA have face challenge . resource be stretch , and the RFA have take on more and more job previously do by the Royal Navy . at the same time , there be an age fleet and crew shortage — only six of 11 RFA ship be currently operational , and skilled position be understaffe by 30 % to 50 % . the UK carrier strike group in the Pacific ocean be rely on the norwegian navy for solid support capacity due to the RFA Fort Victoria be non - operational . the Fort Victoria be more than 35 year old , and a replacement for the UK ' s only solid support ship be not expect until the early 2030 . it be crucial for the UK ' s security and impact on the world stage that the RFA be properly resource . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s commitment to the RFA during his statement on the strategic defence review yesterday . the recruitment and retention crisis in the RFA have be fuel by issue with pay and term and condition . a 2024 report commission from Faststream by the Ministry of Defence find that the RFA leave ratio be one to 0 . 69 , and that the RFA offer less time off per day work than any other sector . Personnel regularly have four - month sea tour . officer have experience a real - term pay cut of over 30 % since 2010 . the Faststream report state : " the RFA ' s current offering pay low than the market average for the net day rate in every rank benchmarke . " I be therefore pleased to see the pay deal that be agree early this year by this Government . alongside a pay increase , there be a commitment to improve term and condition , include reduce length of assignment , and an agreement to ratify a new collective bargaining agreement reach by the RFA and maritime trade union . this , I hope , be just the beginning ; we need to do more and go far to support RFA personnel . the Armed Forces Commissioner will be an independent , direct point of contact for armed force personnel — someone with whom they can raise complaint and welfare issue . there should be an equivalent for the RFA — or the Armed Forces Commissioner Bill could include the RFA . it would mean that RFA personnel could raise concern about bullying , unsafe working condition , discrimination , and misconduct , but inclusion under the Armed Forces Commissioner ' s remit — or indeed that of a separate commissioner — would not change the RFA ' s legal status . it would not militarise the RFA , which would retain the separate identity of which its personnel be so proud . union should rightly have a say in proposal for a commissioner that encompass the RFA . the Armed Forces Commissioner will supersede the previous service complaint ombudsman commissioner , whose remit be much narrow . this follow through on the promise make by this Labour Government to renew the contract between the nation and those who serve . that contract should not end at the gate of a naval base , or the stern of an auxiliary ship . it should recognise the service of RFA personnel . the family of servicemen and woman will now also be able to raise issue with the commissioner . if RFA personnel come under the commissioner ' s remit , their family would benefit , too . partner and child of service personnel and the RFA be alone for long stretch of time . we know that service take a toll not just on those in uniform , but on those around they ; they need that support and that scaffold , too . I be very aware of that as a former Navy wife . we can not claim to support the force if we do not support those in auxiliary role — the people who facilitate global deployment . the RFA must not be an afterthought in defence policy . now more than ever , we need to provide RFA personnel with decent pay , condition , career progression , equal time off , and modern vessel to reflect the importance of the role that they play in an ever - change and dangerous world . question put and agree to . order , that Jayne Kirkham , Anna Gelderd , Andrew George , Anneliese Midgley , Ben Maguire , Chris Bloore , Graeme Downie , Jacob Collier , Laurence Turner , Luke Akehurst , Noah Law and Perran Moon present the Bill . Jayne Kirkham accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 20 June , and to be print ( Bill 252 ) . Armed Forces Commissioner Bill ( Programme ) ( no . 2 ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 83A ( 7 ) ) , that the follow provision shall apply to the Armed Forces Commissioner Bill for the purpose of supplement the order of 18 November 2024 ( Armed Forces Commissioner Bill : Programme ) : consideration of Lords Amendments ( 1 ) proceeding on consideration of Lords Amendments shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour after their commencement . subsequent stage ( 2 ) any further message from the Lords may be consider forthwith without any question be put . ( 3 ) proceeding on any further message from the Lords shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour after their commencement . — ( Taiwo Owatemi . ) question agree to . Armed Forces Commissioner Bill Consideration of Lords amendment Clause 1 - Armed Forces Commissioner I beg to move , that this House agree with Lords amendment 1 . with this it will be convenient to discuss : Lords amendment 2 and 3 , government motion to disagree , and Government amendment ( a ) in lieu . lord amendment 4 to 7 . I be delighted that the Armed Forces Commissioner Bill have return to the House . I rise to speak to Lords amendment 1 , 4 , 5 , 6 and 7 , which be propose by the Government in the other place , as well as Lords amendment 2 and 3 , which be propose by the Opposition and to which we have propose an amendment in lieu to strengthen they . before I start , I would like to recognise the publication of the strategic defence review yesterday , which signify a landmark shift in our deterrence and defence . we make clear then , as I do today , that our people be at the heart of defence . the strategic defence review set out our mission to look after our people well , to unlock their full potential , and to build a " one defence " culture that be focused , inclusive , respectful , and centre on value all contribution . the establishment of an Armed Forces Commissioner be a key part of that mission . I thank all member of both Houses for their scrutiny of this important piece of legislation . it be a landmark step in this Government ' s commitment to renew the nation ' s contract with those who serve and to strengthen support for our armed force and the family who stand behind those who serve our nation . I extend my thank in particular to Lord Coaker , the Minister in the House of Lords , for his invaluable support and collaborative approach in guide the Bill through the other place . I also thank Baroness Goldie , the Earl of Minto , Baroness Smith of Newnham , Lord Stirrup , Lord Stansgate , Lord Browne of Ladyton , Lord Beamish and Baroness Newlove , to name just a few who make valuable contribution in the other place on this important piece of legislation . seven amendment be make to the Bill in the other place . before I turn to they , I remind colleague that this Bill be part of a manifesto commitment make by Labour during the general election to improve the service life of all those who serve and , importantly , to provide for the very first time an opportunity for family member to raise concern about service welfare as well . I think all of we in the House very much welcome the Armed Forces Commissioner . we have a new commissioner in Northern Ireland who be do an excellent job . there be also a role for local council to deliver the armed force covenant . for council in Northern Ireland that be perhaps hesitant — I be be very gentle with my word here — to fully integrate the covenant , will they be encourage to embrace in totality the opportunity that the Bill provide ? everything in the Bill be good , and I think the Government need to be congratulate on all they be do . I thank the hon . gentleman for his intervention . implement the armed force covenant be something that this Government feel strongly about . that be why we be bring forward legislation that will implement the armed force covenant fully into law on a national basis , so that it grip not just on local authority but on central Government . there be real merit in implement the armed force covenant at a local level . there be pocket of good practice nationwide — not just in military city like Plymouth , which I represent , but across the country . it can also be of benefit to council and community , so I would encourage he to continue his campaign to ensure that the covenant be properly implement . for too long we have hear story of bad experience that have go unchallenged , some result in tragedy . the Defence Secretary have make it clear from his first day in the Department that there will be zero tolerance for this type of behaviour . that be why we be act , and that be why I hope that the whole House will support this vital endeavour and the amendment to the Bill . I invite the House to agree to Lords amendment 1 , 4 , 5 and 6 , which be make by the Government in response to suggestion make by the Delegated Powers and Regulatory Reform Committee . they have the effect of fully implement the Committee ' s recommendation to change the regulation - make power to define relevant family member contain in the Bill from the negative to the affirmative procedure . I recently meet the mother of Jaysley Beck , who tragically take her own life after be sexually assault and abuse within the service . I be really impress by her mother ' s strength and her campaign . do the Minister agree that the Bill will give more power to family member , and that maybe we can avoid these tragic incident in future ? I thank my hon . friend for raise a serious case and a real tragedy , not just for the family of Gunner Beck but our entire armed force . it need to be a wake - up call , where we recognise that the behaviour within some of our service be unacceptable and that we need to make improvement . for that very reason we must continue to support the Armed Forces Commissioner Bill , because it will enable family member as well as those serve in uniform to raise genuine service welfare complaint with the commissioner . it will not solve every problem we have with the culture in our armed force , but it provide a route for individual to raise concern outside the chain of command with an independent champion . my hon . friend mention a conversation she have with Gunner Beck ' s family , and I would be happy to meet my hon . friend to discuss that to make sure that we properly learn the lesson that defence need to learn . I be proud to come from a naval family and to say clearly from this Dispatch Box that the family of our armed force matter . for the very first time , this Bill will give they a say and allow they to raise concern . family member be a crucial element of the commissioner ' s remit , and we agree that the definition of a relevant family member should be subject to parliamentary debate and approval . the Liberal Democrat spokesperson , the hon . member for Epsom and Ewell ( Helen Maguire ) , raise that point on Second Reading , and we support it . we be move it from the negative procedure to the affirmative procedure , which will enable that discussion to take place . lord amendment 7 be a technical amendment that be consequential on clause 3 , and I invite the House to support it . clause 3 amend section 340B of the Armed Forces Act 2006 to specify that a " person " rather than only an " officer " may decide whether a service complaint be admissible . this be an evolution of the way that the service complaint system have work and be a prudent change to make . the Minister mention family member and other individual raise complaint , but some of the complaint will be about devolve issue such as health , education and other issue that affect family . can he reassure I that the Armed Force Commissioner will have an effective method of work with the devolved administration to make sure that the concern of armed force across the UK can be address ? my hon . friend be right that defence be a reserved matter , and so it be appropriate for this place to introduce a UK - wide Armed Forces Commissioner . it be also right that whoever be appoint to the role of Armed Forces Commissioner be able to raise issue of concern with the Administrations in every part of the United Kingdom — whether it be London , Edinburgh , Cardiff or Belfast . equally , they should be able to engage with local council . the Armed Forces Commissioner role build on the work of the Service Complaints Ombudsman , who already have a good work relationship with the devolved administration , so I be certain that whoever be appoint to role will be able to build on that and make sure that , for instance , if a housing issue be highlight by someone base in Scotland , that can be raise with the appropriate individual in the Scottish Government . lord amendment 7 will ensure that the language in section 340N of the 2006 Act be also update from " officer " to " person " so that there be no inconsistency in the legislation . I will now turn to Lords amendment 2 and 3 and the debate that take place in the other place about whistleblowe . I thank Baroness Goldie , one of the previous Defence Ministers in the House of Lords , in whose name the amendment be table , for she characteristically consider and constructive contribution to the Bill ' s passage and for raise a serious issue . the amendment seek to introduce a new general function for the commissioner " to investigate concern raise by a whistleblower in relation to the welfare of person subject to service law and their relevant family member , " and to define the term " whistleblower " for the purpose of this Bill . we believe that the amendment , while well intentione , be unnecessary because the Bill be already design to provide a voice for armed force personnel and their family outside the chain of command . the commissioner can already investigate any general service welfare matter that they choose ; anyone can raise an issue with the commissioner , include the type of person define in Baroness Goldie ' s amendment ; and the commissioner be independent , sit outside the chain of command and the Ministry of Defence , and report directly to Parliament and not to senior officer nor to Ministers . I acknowledge the many merit of the Bill . however , it seem that Baroness Goldie be seek to ensure that woman such as those abuse at the army college in Harrogate , near my constituency , and other victim have a clear and well - know route call whistleblowing . I urge the Government to not underestimate that whistleblowing present a real opportunity to encourage people to come forward . the right hon . Gentleman be exactly right that the entire Bill , to an extent , be about whistleblowing , because it allow anyone in our armed force and their relevant family member to raise a concern outside the chain of command . effectively , that be the very heart and soul of what we propose in this legislation . I will come to the amendment in lieu in a moment , but certainly , with that , we seek to strengthen the provision that Baroness Goldie ' s amendment propose . we agree that there be an issue that need to be address within our armed force and we recognise that there be behaviour that be unacceptable . the Ministry of Defence ' s raise our Standards work , which the Minister for Veterans and People lead on , be an important part of provide an opportunity for everyone who serve to raise those concern and have confidence that they can do so within the chain of command , but where they feel unable to do so , there will be a route available to they through the Armed Forces Commissioner to raise those concern . equally , as I just mention to my hon . friend the Member for Barrow and Furness ( Michelle Scrogham ) , this be about the ability of family member , who may feel less constrain by the chain of command or the structure of the armed force , to do so on behalf of their family unit . I entirely understand the purpose of the amendment and I agree with their spirit , but we seek to strengthen they in the amendment in lieu . one of the key part of the amendment be to ensure that anyone who raise a concern will have their identity protect . it worth note that the Armed Forces Commissioner will be bind by the data protection legislation that this House have pass , mean that the personal information and detail provide by anyone who contact the commissioner will be subject to stringent control . on the specific of the word " whistleblower " , we all understand what we mean when we hear that term , and it be important that we provide opportunity for those within our service to raise concern . however , it be not completely straightforward from a legal point of view how that be enact in this piece of legislation . although there be some limited precedent for the use of the term , there be no single meaning and it require additional context to explain what it mean in each case . that mean some technical change be require to Baroness Goldie ' s amendment to make it operable within the Bill , which be why we seek to strengthen it . the amendment seek to define the term in reference to certain people and topic , but importantly , no additional protection be create because the commissioner can already investigate anything that be contain in the amendment propose by Baroness Goldie . however , it be a useful opportunity for we to restate the importance of be able to raise concern , especially about the abuse that happen in our armed force , and to state on the record from the Dispatch Box that there be no place for any of that abuse in our armed force and that not only be the Ministry of Defence take step to tackle it but there be protection in the Bill to enable that . none the less , I understand the intention behind the amendment , which be to ensure that people feel well able to approach the commissioner without fear of repercussion or their identity be make public . I wholeheartedly agree with the spirit behind that . a united voice from this House , say that we will not tolerate unacceptable behaviour , will send a strong message to those watch this debate — both perpetrator and complainant — that the zero tolerance approach we want for the armed force be one that we will all get behind . the Minister be absolutely right . we have to have that zero tolerance approach , not only because it be right for our service personnel who sacrifice so much and for their family , but because it strengthen our whole armed force . that be why it be so important to see that focus on personnel in the strategic defence review . will the Minister reflect briefly on the connection between the Armed Forces Commissioner and the strategic defence review in turn around the issue we have have with retention in our armed force and finally get to grip with that crisis ? certainly , the consequence of one of our propose objective with the Bill — make it easy for people to raise an issue about service life and to have that address — be improve retention . we know that people have concern about service life . housing be a good example , and yesterday ' s strategic defence review allocate £ 1 . 5 billion to improve it . however , we need to make sure that we be reflect on our approach , and for I there be a good reason we do so , which be base on warfighting . in the event that our people be ask to commit to combat , every member of our force should know that regardless of the skin colour or religion of the people stand beside they in the trench , or of who they love , they will have their back , and they will have their back consistently . that equality of service be vital to military discipline and to uphold our value , and it be also something that we still need to work on . for that reason , we need to make sure that the Bill pass and can be implement swiftly . we want people to trust the commissioner and feel confident that their issue will be address and that they will not face any negative consequence as a result of come forward . as such , I have table an amendment in lieu that would go far than Baroness Goldie ' s amendment and ensure genuine protection in respect of report prepare by the commissioner , preserve the anonymity of individual who make complaint . I note with interest the Government ' s amendment in lieu . do the Minister agree that , in all of this , which be unobjectionable in the main , there be a concern not around the person make the complaint but around the person about whom the complaint be make ? as we live in an increasingly litigious society — the number of service complaint be go up and the number of case consider by the ombudsman have be go up — it be likely that the Armed Forces Commissioner ' s work and the number of people complain about will go up . be the Minister satisfied that there be sufficient support for those about whom complaint be make , since the distress that it cause when those complaint be unfounded , or unfounded in part , be significant ? I know that the right hon . Gentleman have experience as a Minister who cover this area in the last government . he be right that we need to reflect on the fact that everyone be innocent until prove guilty . certainly , we need to make sure that we be look after our whole force . it be true that there be issue that we believe be not be address because there be not a sufficient spotlight be shine on they . it be for that reason that the Armed Forces Commissioner Bill provide for a reporting function not to Ministers or the Chief of the Defence Staff , but to Parliament . indeed , I believe the Defence Committee chair by my hon . friend the Member for Slough ( Mr Dhesi ) be likely to receive those report . it be precisely for those reason that I believe the commissioner may be able to offer a view as to how the system they oversee will be able not only to protect victim and perpetrator , and seek justice with perpetrator , but deal with people who may be falsely accuse . largely , I expect general service welfare matter to be the predominant piece of activity for the commissioner , rather than necessarily look at individual aspect of abuse or misbehaviour for which there be already a legal system within defence that can address some of those . as a whole , however , I take the right hon . Gentleman ' s point . in addition to the amendment that we have table in lieu , the Government have also commit in the other place to update their current Raising a concern policy , which include replicate the protection available to civilian under the Public Interest Disclosure Act 1998 . the update will outline the role of the commissioner and ensure that similar protection for people under the policy be apply to disclosure make to the commissioner . that will include provision relate to anonymity and confidentiality , and ensure that anyone who raise a genuine concern in line with the policy will be protect from unfair or negative treatment due to the raising of that concern . far , the Government will conduct a thorough communication campaign to ensure that member of our armed force and their family be clear about the role of the commissioner and how to access their office , how it interact with exist policy protection and policy , the type of issue that can be raise , and how they will be deal with . take together , our Government amendment and the additional commitment that I have outline today and that Lord Coaker outline to the House of Lords will establish genuine protection for people wish to raise concern anonymously , and build trust and confidence with the armed force and their family member in a way that we can not envisage would be achieve by Lords amendment 2 and 3 on their own . this Bill be a critical step in renew the nation ' s contract with those who serve . for the first time , we be provide they and their family member with a genuinely independent champion , a direct point of contact for they to raise welfare matter and to have those issue scrutinise in due course by Parliament , and in turn for the Government — this Government and any Government in the future — to be hold to account . that can only be a positive thing . I therefore urge the House to support the Government ' s position . in Southend and Rochford I have have the pleasure of meet many veteran and service people , man and woman , who keep our country safe . an Armed Forces Commissioner will be a direct point of contact for those serve and their family , and will have direct authority to investigate welfare complaint from housing to kit to issue affect family life . as a former soldier myself , I know that lose a lot of kit happen often , but I digress . this role come alongside record amount of funding for the armed force and housing , so I be sure that colleague across the House be extremely proud — order . the hon . Member really ought not to be make a mini - speech . perhaps he be draw his comment to a close . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I be sure colleague across the House be extremely proud of our armed force . do the Minister agree that this Bill be an opportunity for we to show a united Chamber in support of our armed force and that colleague should support it ? I agree with my hon . friend ' s intervention , and he need not worry , because I will not be send he a bill for any of the kit that he might have misplace over the year . my hon . friend be absolutely right to say that this House be at its good when we focus not on the party politic that may give we cause to divide ourselves , but on support for our armed force personnel , their family and the mission that we ask they to undertake to keep our nation safe . it be precisely for that reason that I hope colleague across the House will take note of what he have say and present a united House in relation to these amendment . for the first time , we be provide our armed force and their family member with a genuinely independent champion , a direct point of contact for they to raise welfare matter and to have those issue scrutinise by Parliament and , in turn , for the Government to be hold to account . I therefore urge the House to support the Government ' s position , to put aside party politic and to put our troop first , so that we can move close to deliver this vital manifesto commitment for our brave servicemen and woman and their family . I call shadow Minister Mark Francois . with your permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , perhaps I could begin by refer briefly to the ten - minute rule Bill introduce by the hon . member for Truro and Falmouth ( Jayne Kirkham ) , which immediately precede this debate . as a Navy wife , she clearly fully understand the vital role of the Royal Fleet Auxiliary in support our armed force , and as the son of someone who serve in the Royal Navy in the second world war , I have grow up to appreciate everything that the RFA do for we . it be a wonderful organisation . I be sit on the Front Bench throughout her speech and I wish her Bill all the good . as the shadow Armed Forces Minister , I rise to speak as a critical friend of the Armed Forces Commissioner Bill , drive by a commitment to ensure that it deliver real and meaningful support for the brave man and woman who serve our country . our armed force personnel deserve a system that honour their sacrifice and guarantee fairness , accountability and transparency when concern arise . to recap , the Bill at its core seek to strengthen oversight by establish an independent Armed Forces Commissioner model partly on the german system , with Ofsted - like power to access military site and relevant information for investigation . if implement well , it could improve the live experience of our servicemen and woman , bolster public confidence in how their issue be handle . a truly independent , well - resource commissioner be a vision that I believe command support right across the House . say that , where be Reform member ? this be legislation that be design to enhance the welfare of our armed force and their family , so why be they not here ? have check in Hansard , I know that they be not here yesterday either . they take no part in either of the urgent question , and no part whatsoever in the statement or the very long debate that follow it . why ? it be because Reform member do not do defence . they be one - club golfer with one single issue , and unfortunately the welfare of our armed force personnel and their family do not seem to be it . their empty Benches speak volume , and while I be at it , be there any Scottish National party Members here ? oh well , they do not take this very seriously either , do they ? I be pleased that the right hon . Gentleman have raise this point . I have sit in this House on , I think , all the occasion when we have be discuss defence , and I be also sorry to note that there be no Reform Members here for either the VE Day debate or the Remembrance Day debate . do he agree that that show the complete dereliction of a party that aspire to govern ? for a party that sometimes like to wrap itself in the flag , if I can put it like that , one would think that when it come to our armed force , Reform would be more bothered . empirically , that be not always the case . we be not allow to take photograph in the Chamber — that be a mortal sin , Madam Deputy Speaker ; it be an interview - without - coffee offence for you or the Speaker — but if we be allow to take such a photo , or if someone else , perhaps outside the House , want to take such a photo , those empty Benches would speak volume . at the heart of the amendment we be debate today be the issue of whistleblowing . admittedly , this issue be not much discuss in Committee in March , as I think the Minister would testify . at that time , the two key issue that emerge be the potential adverse effect of inheritance tax change on death - in - service payment , on which I be afraid the Government have do virtually nothing , and vat on school fee , include for military child . all I will say on the latter be that we eagerly await the outcome of the High Court case . that bring I to the critical issue , which be debate at some length in the other place and be now before we : the need to empower the commissioner to investigate concern raise by whistleblower while protect their anonymity . in the other place , our Opposition spokesperson , Baroness Goldie , argue passionately that the commissioner must have explicit authority to investigate whistleblowe concern within the scope of this Bill centre on welfare and general service issue , to ensure that those raise concern — whether service personnel , their family or friend — can do so anonymously . indeed , the Minister in his " Dear Colleague " letter date 30 May outline that " baroness Goldie ' s amendment raise an important debate " . he say today that the amendment be well intentione , and we agree . the Government , however , contend that exist mechanism — a confidential hotline , investigation team and improve complaint process — be sufficient . this be where we do not agree . they argue that our amendment be unnecessary because it do not confer additional power on the commissioner . recently , General Sir Roly Walker , Chief of the General Staff , say that he be " ashamed " by the story of sexual misconduct — predominately crime commit against woman in service . he also say that lot of these crime go unreported , so lot be unknown as well as the terrible one that be know . how can we have a truly effective independent commissioner if there be no whistleblowing function through which these crime can be report ? the hon . Gentleman make a powerful argument . I hope that if time allow , he will also make a speech . the Government themselves acknowledge that the commissioner provide an enhanced , independent route for raise concern . our amendment build on that by embed a clear , accessible and statutorily protect whistleblowing function . that simplicity be vital for ensure that service personnel , especially those who feel most vulnerable , can come forward without fear . the Government have far argue that whistleblowing lack a clear legal definition . however , that claim be simply untenable . as Baroness Goldie powerfully highlight in the other place , the Armed Forces Act 2006 — section 340Q be title " Investigation of concern raise by whistle - blower " — and the Police Reform Act 2002 provide clear statutory precedent for the term . those act demonstrate that include whistleblowe add tangible value to legislation , ensure protection for those who expose wrongdoing . if whistleblowing be robust enough for the Police Reform Act and the very Act that this Bill be design to amend , how can the Government argue that it lack clarity or value in this context ? let I address the Government ' s contradictory stance . in Committee in the other place , we propose a broad amendment to empower the commissioner . in the other place , the Ministry of Defence dismiss it as too wide - ranging . in the spirit of constructive compromise , which have be the general tenor of the Bill throughout , we narrow our amendment to focus specifically on welfare and service issue . now the Government claim that this revise amendment be too narrow and do not grant sufficient power — too broad , then too narrow . that inconsistency display a reluctance to engage with the substance of our proposal . to illustrate my point , let I offer two theoretical example to the House . first , let we consider the possibility of a whistleblower be someone who serve in the British Army in Northern Ireland . this be an extremely topical issue at present , as the Minister will be aware , give the Government ' s appal remedial order to excise key part of the Northern Ireland Troubles ( Legacy and Reconciliation ) Act 2023 . I do not know whether any armed force personnel who serve , or indeed be still serve , in Northern Ireland have privately sign the parliamentary petition entitle , " protect Northern Ireland Veterans from Prosecutions " , but as of today , over 131 , 000 people have sign it . we therefore look forward to an early debate in Parliament on these matter . while we be of course in the hand of the Petitions Committee and not you , Madam Deputy Speaker , on this occasion , we be hopeful that the Committee might allow a debate to take place as soon as possible , and certainly prior to the summer recess . I see Labour Members nod , so I be keen to get that into Hansard . secondly , let we consider the theoretical example of an officer serve as a military assistant to a Minister on the fifth floor of the Ministry of Defence . what protection in law would that officer have if they become seriously concerned that a Minister they be work for be about to breach the ministerial code ? not that any Minister here today would , of course . how would an officer face with a moral dilemma of that magnitude be permit to act as a whistleblower to raise concern that Ministers have act inappropriately — something that would certainly impact their general welfare as well as the reputation of the Government they serve ? we will see if the Minister have anything to add before we conclude . in summary — I know other be keen to speak — the Government have offer assurance about anonymity in the commissioner ' s work and promise a communication campaign to raise awareness of the commissioner ' s role . these be welcome step , but , as I hope I have argue , they be not enough . a communication campaign be no substitute for a clear , statutory whistleblowing provision that service personnel can rely on with confidence . the other place recognise that , deliver a significant cross - party defeat to the Government last month when conservative peer , alongside other , successfully amend the Bill to include a robust , anonymous whistleblowing route . lord amendment 2 and 3 be not just about process ; they be about rebuild trust . I will listen closely to the Minister ' s response , but if the Government can not move beyond their current position and continue to offer assurance without real statutory weight — I be afraid we find the amendment in lieu unconvincing — we will have no choice but to test the opinion of the House . we owe it to our service personnel to ensure their voice be hear and their concern be properly investigate . I call the Chair of the Defence Committee . as we consider the Lords amendment to the Bill , I welcome the opportunity to reflect on the progress make and the important issue that these amendment address . I be pleased to support Lords amendment 1 , 4 , 5 and 6 , which enhance parliamentary oversight of secondary legislation under the Bill . the Government ' s support for those amendment be a positive step towards great transparency and accountability in the implementation of this important legislation . I also want to highlight the significance of whistleblow protection . lord amendment 2 and 3 rightly draw attention to the need to safeguard those who come forward with concern . I welcome his Majesty ' s official Opposition ' s effort to bring attention to this issue and to the Government ' s commitment to this principle , particularly through the amendment they have table in lieu , which aim to protect the anonymity of individual make complaint . that be essential for foster a culture of openness and trust within our armed force and ensure the Armed Forces Commissioner have the confidence of serve personnel and those who make complaint . I be grateful to the Armed Forces Minister for his clarification on the matter just now . as Chair of the Defence Committee , I want to reiterate that our Committee very much look forward to hold a pre - appointment hearing with the Secretary of State ' s preferred candidate for the first Armed Forces Commissioner — a vital step in ensure the independence and effectiveness of this new office . finally , as this be likely our last opportunity to debate the Bill in the House , I look forward to its passage into law and thank all those who have be involve in draft and amend the Bill as it have make its way through both Houses . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I rise to speak in support of Lords amendment 2 and 3 , which be table by conservative peer Baroness Goldie and support in the other place by my Liberal Democrat colleague . I urge member on both side of the House to reject the Government ' s proposal to remove they and replace they with a water - down version . the amendment do something simple but profoundly important : they embe within the commissioner ' s role a clear and explicit whistleblowing function , one that empower service personnel and their family to raise concern about welfare and wrongdoing safely and with confidence , and , crucially , one that provide statutory protection for those who speak up . a complaint process and a whistleblowing system have two different purpose . a complaint be often about personal redress whereas a whistleblowing disclosure be about draw attention to serious wrongdoing , often at great personal risk in the public interest . the Government ' s amendment in lieu acknowledge the importance of anonymity , but it do not go far enough . it merely insert a provision to protect identify detail in publishing report and only where the disclosure be " in response to a request " . it neither define nor protect whistleblower in statute . whistleblowing be a vital tool in surface systemic failure — something that our service personnel clearly need . it seem like almost every month brave service personnel and veteran come forward with shocking account of misconduct . their account underline how much courage it take to speak up and how easily that courage can be crush by fear of social backlash , reprisal or career damage . the Government argue that anyone can raise a concern with the commissioner and that datum protection law already protect anonymity , but data protection be not the same as whistleblow protection . it be passive and do not actively encourage disclosure , do not instil confidence and do not grant status or safeguard against retaliation . the whistleblowing amendment would not overburden the commissioner ; they would simply recognise whistleblowing for what it be : a unique and necessary channel for uncover wrongdoing that might otherwise be bury . they be tightly draw , limit to welfare matter , and design to ensure that information reach someone with the authority to act . the commissioner will be task with improve the culture and confidence among our armed force . nothing would do more to support that mission than keep the amendment , which would introduce a whistleblowing function , give our brave service personnel and their family an independent , trust person to whom they can speak safely and be hear without fear . I will vote against the Government motion to remove Lords amendment 2 and 3 , and I urge colleague to do the same . the amendment give confidence to those who wish to speak up , but who be afraid of the consequence . " whistleblowing " be a simple , clear and well - understand term that can provide extra assurance . it could make this Bill truly transformative to the armed force culture . yesterday ' s strategic defence review rightly put our brave service personnel at the heart of defence plan , and this Bill be a fundamental part of renew the nation ' s contract with our armed force . it be an honour to serve on the Public Bill Committee , and I be pleased to see the amendment make in the other place , which improve the Bill . however , I support Government amendment ( a ) in lieu of Lords amendment 2 and 3 . lord amendment 2 and 3 would introduce a new general function for the commissioner to investigate concern raise by whistleblower in relation to the welfare of person subject to service law and relevant family member , but the House will know that the commissioner can already investigate any general service matter that they choose , and the Bill already allow anyone who wish to raise such issue to do so . while the Lords amendment have be important in raise issue around anonymity for whistleblower , Government amendment ( a ) would go far by ensure genuine protection for people who raise an issue that later feature in an investigation and report by the commissioner . I rise to speak to Government amendment ( a ) in lieu of Lords amendment 2 and 3 . we have see time and again how important it be to allow our service personnel to speak up in ensure the safety and wellbeing of our armed force and the success of critical mission . the 1994 Mull of Kintyre Chinook crash , the 2005 loss of the C - 130 Hilton 22 , and the 2006 loss of Nimrod XV230 serve as stark reminder of what happen when concern be not openly report . I therefore welcome the Government ' s commitment to maintain anonymity by ensure that no identify information , or information that could lead to identification , be include without the explicit consent of service member . I also welcome the Government ' s assurance that they will update the MOD ' s " raise a concern " policy to reflect civilian protection and ensure that all individual who come forward can do so with guarantee anonymity and confidentiality . do my hon . and gallant Friend agree that reference such awful disaster really bring into focus the lack of public awareness of the lack of support for our armed force in previous year , and that this landmark Labour Bill will transform the culture in our force in a positive way and be long overdue ? my hon . friend make a very important point . this Bill mark a culture change in how the Government go about interact with our armed force , and provide they with a sense of pride but also the necessary process to ensure that their service be protect and treat with dignity and respect . ultimately , whether it be report on ongoing cultural issue of bullying and sexual harassment , poor quality housing or equipment safety concern , every service member should feel empower to do so and feel assured that they can and should speak up . we have see how the armed force ombudsman have consistently be unable to ensure that the service complaint system do not disadvantage or discriminate . such finding raise serious concern , highlight the critical need for the new and empower Armed Forces Commissioner to regain the trust of service member . build that trust be more important than simply enact new legislation ; it be essential that service member feel confident that their complaint will be handle anonymously and fairly . ultimately , foster a culture of trust in the armed force must take precedence over the specific language of the legislation . it be the practical implementation by the chain of command , and commitment to the fair treatment of all , that will truly make a difference . I recognise that this Government be commit to renew our country ' s contract with those who serve , and the introduction of an Armed Forces Commissioner be an important step . the success of the Armed Forces Commissioner largely depend on the effective implementation of this Bill , and on the willingness of the chain of command to work with the commissioner . however , the Government must ensure that the service complaint system tackle the deep - root systemic issue that persist in the armed force , recognise that the establishment of the Armed Forces Commissioner be only one part of much - need broad reform — not that reform — they be not here ! indeed they be not . we need to restore trust and deliver meaningful change for all of those who serve . with the leave of the House , I will respond to the debate in the time that we have leave . on behalf of the Government , I thank all member for their contribution . it be clear that there be widespread support for the principle of introduce an Armed Forces Commissioner , for the Armed Forces Commissioner ' s remit to include relevant family member , and for we to get on and implement the Bill well , which I can assure the shadow Minister be our intention . I will refer to a number of the point that have be raise in today ' s debate . I entirely agree with my hon . friend the Member for Leyton and Wanstead ( Mr Bailey ) that we need to ensure that the system work . the Bill in front of we be not design to adjust the procedure , policy or process of the Service Complaints Ombudsman for the Armed Forces as it transition into the Armed Forces Commissioner ' s Office , but it be design to expand the power of SCOAF . the current Service Complaints Ombudsman have be ask for that in her annual report , and we have provide an expand remit in the Bill in front of we . I share my hon . friend ' s determination to see an improved system , and I place on record my thank to Mariette Hughes , the current Service Complaints Ombudsman , for her work in reduce the backlog of service complaint that be not be address . in Committee we hear about the progress that have be make , which be very welcome , and I be certain that that improvement will be embed in the work of the Armed Forces Commissioner as well . the shadow Minister raise the issue of Northern Ireland veteran , and we owe our veteran from Operation Banner a huge debt of gratitude . their professionalism and sacrifice save life in Northern Ireland and across the United Kingdom , and help bring about peace . there will be no rewriting of history . however , the previous Government ' s woeful legacy Act do nothing to help those veteran . over and over again , it be find to be unlawful by the UK court , and any incoming Government at the last general election would have have to repeal and replace that unlawful legislation — it be disingenuous to pretend otherwise . we must ensure that the legacy mechanism in place be fair , lawful and proportionate , and we be work hard to ensure that veteran ' welfare and legal service be provide , so that anyone involve in any of the investigation get the support they require and we can minimise the impact on this unique group of veteran . as we replace the previous Government ' s woeful legacy Act , we will prioritise and strengthen the protection to ensure the dignity and respect of veteran , and I know that my colleague in the Northern Ireland Office will look forward to further discussion on this issue should the Petitions Committee grant a debate . it have often be say that the court reject the legacy Act , at least in part . I be not aware of which part specifically they reject , but I would like to remind the ministerial team that in 2017 the then Defence Committee examine in great detail whether it would be legal to have a statute of limitation that would put an end to these prosecution . four professor of law , include Philippe Sands , agree that it would be , as long as there be an investigative process , possibly embody in a truth recovery process . when the Government bring forward whatever alternative legislation to the legacy Act they propose , will they make sure that a statute of limitation be part of it ? I thank the right hon . gentleman . he and I have have many long discussion about issue that the Committee discuss when he chair it , and I be aware that my hon . friend the Member for Slough ( Mr Dhesi ) may have interest in this as Chair of the Committee today . I will ensure that my colleague in the Northern Ireland Office who be lead on that work have hear those remark . well , 131 , 000 people do not agree with what the Minister just say , clearly . if he be so confident in the Government ' s case , can he say on the record that he would welcome their proposal be debate in Parliament for at least three hour before the summer recess ? presumably he be not frightened of a debate , so could he put that on the record ? I already have , before the right hon . Gentleman intervene — it be the last line I say before give way to the right hon . member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) . I think there be a good issue that need to be debate . this place should debate issue of concern to the british people , and it should also be the forum where we challenge and test those argument . indeed , the court have already test the legacy Act and find it to be unlawful . that be why any Government would need to look at it again — indeed , our colleague in the Northern Ireland Office be do so — and I be happy to confirm that any Bill would be bring forward to the House for such a discussion . I turn to the whistleblowing protection , which be raise by the hon . member for Epsom and Ewell ( Helen Maguire ) and the right hon . member for Rayleigh and Wickford . I agree that the term " whistleblower " exist elsewhere in law . however , as I say , simply use the term in the Bill as propose by the Opposition ' s Lords amendment 2 and 3 would have no practical legal effect and would provide no protection that do not already exist or be not provide for in the Government amendment in lieu . indeed , the Government amendment go far than the Opposition amendment . in relation to practical effect , there be no difference between what be propose and what be already in the Bill . however , I entirely accept the spirit in which both member raise that important issue . we know that there be issue in term of culture in our armed force . the Defence Secretary and the whole team in the Ministry of Defence have be clear that there be no place for those issue , and we be make culture change . indeed , the fact that our senior officer have make similar statement show that from the top to the bottom of our armed force , there be no place for any abuse , and a zero - tolerance policy must take that seriously . I be not certain that Lords amendment 2 and 3 would have much legal effect , and the Government amendment go far . however , I welcome this debate and the opportunity we have as a Parliament to put on record our strong cross - party support for a zero - tolerance approach . the right hon . member for Rayleigh and Wickford be point at the empty Reform Benches , which he make a strong argument about early . I be not a golf player — as a hockey player , I have only one stick , and I believe a few more be need in golf . the strong cross - party position — or the position of all party represent here today , I should say — be that there be no place for abuse in our armed force or a culture of intimidation . the power contain in the Bill provide an opportunity for people to raise concern outside the chain of command . that be what the Government ' s amendment in lieu also seek to do , recognise that , in addition to the commitment I have give to the House today , we can far strengthen the Bill . with that in mind , I commend the Bill to the House . Lords amendment 1 agree to . question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 2 . Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Calvin Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Yvette Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Chris Curtis Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Kate Dearden Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Damien Egan Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Paulette Hamilton Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Alison Hume Patrick Hurley Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Louise Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Sonia Kumar Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Ed Miliband Julie Minns Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Ellie Reeves Martin Rhodes Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Baggy Shanker Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Jo Stevens will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christian Wakeford Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Katie White David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Gen Kitchen Taiwo Owatemi Shockat Adam Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Kirsty Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell Charlotte Cane James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Ellie chown James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Claire Coutinho Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Ann davy Mims Davies Bobby Dean Carla Denyer Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Alex Easton Sorcha Eastwood Luke Evans Tim Farron Stephen Flynn will Forster Peter Fortune Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin Louie French Richard Fuller Roger Gale Andrew George Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Helen Grant Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Julia Lopez James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Mike Martin Brian Mathew Jerome Mayhew Charlie Maynard Esther McVey Llinos Medi Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Tessa Munt Andrew Murrison Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Sarah Pochin Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Adrian Ramsay David Reed Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Ian Roome Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Mel Stride Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Pete Wishart Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young Andrew Snowden Gregory Stafford the House divide : Ayes 319 , Noes 180 . question accordingly agree to . lord amendment 2 disagree to . More than one hour have elapse since the commencement of proceeding on the Lords amendment , the proceeding be interrupt ( Programme Order , this day ) . the Deputy Speaker put forthwith the Questions necessary for the disposal of the business to be conclude at that time ( Standing Order no . 83F ) . Motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 3 . — ( Luke Pollard . ) Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Calvin Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Yvette Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Chris Curtis Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Kate Dearden Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Damien Egan Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Paulette Hamilton Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume Patrick Hurley Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Louise Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Sonia Kumar Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Anneliese Midgley Ed Miliband Julie Minns Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Sarah Owen Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Ellie Reeves Martin Rhodes Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Baggy Shanker Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Jo Stevens will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christian Wakeford Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Katie White David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Taiwo Owatemi Gen Kitchen Shockat Adam Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Kirsty Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell Charlotte Cane James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Ellie chown James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Daisy Cooper John Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Claire Coutinho Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Mims Davies Bobby Dean Carla Denyer Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Luke Evans Tim Farron Stephen Flynn will Forster Peter Fortune Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Andrew George Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Helen Grant Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Julia Lopez James MacCleary Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Brian Mathew Jerome Mayhew Charlie Maynard Esther McVey Llinos Medi Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Tessa Munt Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Sarah Pochin Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Adrian Ramsay David Reed Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Ian Roome Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Mel Stride Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Pete Wishart Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young Andrew Snowden Gregory Stafford the House divide : Ayes 315 , Noes 184 . question accordingly agree to . lord amendment 3 disagree to . clause 4 - Commissioner ' s function in relation to general service welfare Amendment ( a ) propose in lieu of Lords amendment 2 and 3 . — ( Luke Pollard . ) question put , that the amendment be make . Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Calvin Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Gregory Campbell Irene Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Ellie Chowns Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Tom Collins Liam Conlon Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Yvette Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Chris Curtis Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Alex Easton Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Damien Egan Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Paulette Hamilton Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume Patrick Hurley Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Louise Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Sonia Kumar Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Carla Lockhart Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Anneliese Midgley Ed Miliband Julie Minns Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Ellie Reeves Martin Rhodes Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Gavin Robinson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Baggy Shanker Jim Shannon Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Jo Stevens will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christian Wakeford Chris Ward Melanie Ward Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Katie White David Williams Sammy Wilson Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Gen Kitchen Taiwo Owatemi Jim Allister Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Alex Burghart James Cartlidge James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock John Cooper Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross mim davy Caroline Dinenage Iain Duncan Smith Luke Evans Peter Fortune Mark Francois George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale John Glen Helen Grant Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Jerome Mayhew Esther McVey Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Chris Philp Sarah Pochin Shivani Raja David Reed Joe Robertson Andrew Rosindell Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Blake Stephenson Mel Stride Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Helen Whately James Wild Gavin Williamson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Andrew Snowden Gregory Stafford the House divide : Ayes 329 , Noes 101 . question accordingly agree to . Amendment ( a ) make in lieu of Lords amendment 2 and 3 . lord amendment 4 to 7 agree to . datum ( Use and Access ) Bill [ Lords ] consideration of Lords message before Clause 138 - statement and bring forward of a draft bill : copyright infringement , AI model , and transparency over input I beg to move , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 49f . I be tempt to start with a quote from " Macbeth " — " when shall we three meet again ? " — because I notice there be a similar cast to our previous debate , but let I start by dispel some misconception . we be not , contrary to what some have state , change UK copyright law to the detriment of the creative industry . if the Government ' s Bill be adopt , not a single word of copyright law will have change in the United Kingdom . it will be as robust as it ever be . in fact , we have say repeatedly that creator should share in the value of this new technology , and we support artificial intelligence developer pay for the content that they use . we want to see more licensing of and proper remuneration for UK content . we be not undermine copyright owner ' control over their work . we have say from the beginning that we want intellectual property owner to have more control over the use of their work . some say in the House of Lords yesterday that we have not listen to they or to the creative industry , but that be simply not true . we have hear loud and clear the message from the creative industry and from other . that be why we put reporting commitment on the face of the Bill at a previous round , and we have commit to add two further reporting requirement on approach to model train overseas and on enforcement . we have commit to deliver report and impact assessment within nine rather than 12 month , and the Bill will require the Secretary of State to make a progress statement to Parliament about the impact assessment and report within six month of Royal Assent . it be also why the Secretary of State , who be sit by I now , state clearly that although we go into the consultation with a preferred option , we have hear the reaction to that . we want to consider the consultation response in full , and — to quote he precisely — " when we go into the consultation , I believe that opt out could have offer an opportunity to bring both side together , but I now accept that that be not the case . " — [ Official Report , 22 May 2025 ; Vol . 767 , c . 1233 . ] as I have say , the Government have listen at every stage . as I have explain to the House previously , the Bill be never intend to be about artificial intelligence , intellectual property and copyright . what we have be a Bill that will harness datum for economic growth , improve public service and support modern digital government . we want to get the legislation on the statute book as fast as we possibly can . will the Minister give way ? of course , it would be a delight . if only I believe the Minister . I pick up the frustration in his tone , and I appreciate that this must be exhausting for he , because this be the fourth time that the Government have be defeat on this issue in the other place . I understand that he just want to get this piece of legislation do , but this time it only require the Government to come forward with a plan to implement transparency before it be too late . he say that our copyright law be robust and that he be not seek to undermine it — it be robust , but it be be ignore . how long will it take before the Government hold the AI company to account for what be effectively the big copyright heist in history ? how long will it take before the Government clamp down on what be basically the whitewashing of the behaviour of big tech ? who be really pull the string here ? well , nobody be pull my string . I do not know what that final reference be to . I pay tribute to the hon . Lady and the Select Committee , who have do important work in this field . some of what we have commit to in previous round of ping - pong in this House have spring directly from what her Select Committee ask we to do . we will continue to listen to that . as she know , we have always say , right from the beginning , that a key aspect of any package we bring forward would be something around transparency . I will come on to the precise matter in the new clause before we , and I hope that might explain why we be urge the House to reject the amendment today . it be a delight to hear from the hon . Lady , and she need not doubt I . will the Minister give way ? another delight . I know that the Minister do mean it in this case . he talk about the speed of move this legislation on to the statute book . I note that legislative consent motion be in from the Scottish Parliament and the Welsh Assembly , but as yet there be not one from the Northern Ireland Assembly . can he give I clarification as to what implication that legislative consent motion not be in place will have for those business and individual in Northern Ireland who will be affect by this legislation ? I have speak to Ministers in Northern Ireland , and they have already lay that legislative consent motion . my understanding be that that process will be fully do in time for Royal Assent , so he need not worry . we have sort that one out , too . I promise the Chair of the Select Committee , the hon . member for Gosport ( Dame Caroline Dinenage ) , that I be about to come on to the precise detail of the amendment , so I will address that . first , as Baroness Jones of Whitchurch , my noble colleague , say in the Lords yesterday , " the Government ' s report on the use of copyright work in the development of AI system will address two additional area , specifically highlight by the noble Baroness ' s original amendment " — the one that we be now consider — " how to deal with model train overseas ; and how rule should be enforce and by whom . " — [ Official Report , House of Lords , 2 June 2025 ; Vol . 846 , c . 481 . ] we will do subsection ( 1 ) of the new clause as part of our report and economic impact assessment . in other word , we have already commit to do half of what be in the amendment , and I would therefore argue that that half be unnecessary . the second part of the new clause be problematic , and I think it would be problematic for any Government . it require the Government to produce a draft bill on copyright and AI accord to a specific timetable . it lay out element that that Bill must include and determine how it should be consider by this House . I can not think of any Bill in our history that have include such a clause , for very good reason . a central plank of parliamentary sovereignty be that no Parliament can bind its successor . that do not just mean from one Parliament to another ; it mean that one Session of Parliament can not bind a future session . however , the Kidron amendment say that , for instance , the draft Bill " must make provision for enforcement " . what happen if it do not do so , or if the measure it include for enforcement be not sufficient in some people ' s mind ? where would that be adjudicate ? how would it be decide ? will the Minister give way ? I will just finish this point , if the hon . Lady will allow I . in addition , we be still work through a huge number of consultation response . to prescribe a draft Bill in detail at this point would completely undermine that process and the policy work that be take place . I would argue that not only be that bad policymaking , but it would completely disregard the input that so many respondent to the consultation have exhaust so much effort in provide . rise — I will give way first to the hon . member for Gosport , and then to the right hon . member for Skipton and Ripon ( Sir Julian Smith ) . I think the Minister for give way , but I think he be dance on the head of a pin . the fact be that all legislation somehow bind those who be come down the track , and other have speak on many occasion about the urgency of bring forward measure to provide transparency about what of people ' s intellectual property be be scrape right now . I can not understand why the Government be take this position . this amendment be not ask for much ; it be just ask for the Government to have a plan to sort this out in short order . of course , I understand the demand for we to act as swiftly as we possibly can , and that be our intention . one could argue that introduce a draft Bill , which would then be consider in various different place and presumably would be follow by a Bill , would delay thing rather than speed they up . in addition — this be a really important constitutional point — as I say early , I be not aware of a single Bill in the past that have require a future Bill to be produce and specify thing that must be in it . will my hon . friend give way ? I have get to give way to the right hon . member for Skipton and Ripon first , but then of course I will come back to my hon . friend . I thank the Minister for give way . the essential point be that the creative industry be desperate to get a hook within this Bill to reassure it that this vacuuming up of its intellectual property will be control . the problem with all the commitment , the work group and all the word that the Minister be say be that they do not give the creative industry that reassurance . yesterday ' s debate be passionate about the need — somehow , in whatever way the Government want — to give the creative industry reassurance that this issue will be deal with within a set timeframe . I understand the concern of the creative industry — they have express it to I in no uncertain term on many occasion , both individually and in large group . we have hear the message loud and clear . I think some people have be labour under the misconception that this Bill be do something to undermine copyright . I know that the right hon . Gentleman listen to the debate in the House of Lords yesterday , because I be stand next to he , listen to the fullness of the debate as a courtesy to the House of Lords . as I have say before , I worry that to legislate on a part of this issue , rather than the whole of it , be a mistake . for the sake of argument , let we say that we only legislate in relation to what transparency should be require and do not come up with an enforcement measure . what would happen if the company simply refuse to provide that information ? would we have to introduce a new offence of not provide such information ? what would we have to do ? that be my argument for why I think — notwithstanding the clamour for we to go as fast as we possibly can , which I fully understand — we need to get it right and to legislate in the round , rather than just piecemeal on the back of a Bill that be not mean to deal with these matter at all . I hear my hon . friend the Member for East Thanet ( Ms Billington ) attempt to intervene early . I thank my hon . friend for give way , and I understand that he be be extremely patient in these circumstance . may I draw his attention to something that happen before 2010 ? I know that that be a long time ago , but both he and I be old enough — and , indeed , ugly enough — to remember those time . when Lord Mandelson be Secretary of State at the Department for Business , Innovation and Skills , what be then know as the Napster clause be include in the then Digital Economy Bill . that be do precisely to give reassurance to the music industry that if , later on , download become so problematic that the music industry be go to be hollow out , the Government would give themselves the power to act . if my hon . friend be give the Government the power to report , surely it would be right for the Government to give themselves the power to act once they have receive evidence that something be go wrong , enable they to enforce the copyright law that we all now agree be clear and should therefore be enforce . I will start with my hon . friend ' s very last point , which be that we all agree that copyright law be clear — we do . I hope people understand that the Government ' s position be clear that copyright law be clear . I do not think that be in doubt . secondly , of course , we always have the power to introduce legislation . however , certainly if I be sit on the Opposition Benches , I would doubt whether it would be right to introduce transparency requirement solely on the basis of secondary legislation , which — as I say — would probably have to contain some sort of enforcement mechanism and potentially a new offence . I would say , " secondary legislation be unamendable — it be take it or leave it . that would be problematic . " while again I understand the desire for we to move as swiftly as possible , I reiterate that I think it be well for we to legislate in the round , take all of the subject matter into consideration . some matter have not even be mention in this debate , such as what we do about the copyright that pertain to AI - create material . should that material have any protection , or no protection ? should it follow the person who create the AI large language model , or should it stick with the person who ask the AI large language model the question ? the hon . member for East Thanet ( Ms Billington ) be quite right : back in 2010 , the Napster provision be first enact through the Digital Economy Act . such provision be possible , and I just do not understand the Minister ' s reticence about this amendment . it seem an entirely reasonable amendment to bring forward — it do everything that everybody want to achieve when it come to this Bill . even if the Minister be not prepared to accept the amendment , could he at least say that he accept the principle of it and what it require , and that he will do all he can to bring forward all the provision it ask for ? I be try to be tidy in the way I respond to people , so first , I note that I do not respond to the Napster point . quite a lot of people have make the point to I that we get from Napster to spotify . there be many problem with spotify that many musician , record label and so on have raise with I , but at least it be well than people take stuff for nothing . there be an argument — a strong argument , I would say — that in this debate , we want to move from Napster to spotify , or to something even well than spotify . I be not sure precisely how we get there , but I be absolutely certain that we need to legislate in the round for all of these issue . the hon . member for Perth and Kinross - shire ( Pete Wishart ) ask I about the principle of the noble Baroness Kidron ' s amendment . of course we believe in transparency — we be fully subscribe to want to provide that . that have always be part of the package that we have want to present . there be still the question of what enforcement would look like , and many other issue that any Bill that come forward would need to address . I be hesitant about introduce a draft Bill , because a draft Bill would take long to go through . we want to be able to legislate in this area as soon as we possibly can , but we also want to have listen to and borne in mind the full panoply of the response . People may presume that they know what the 11 , 500 response will say , but actually , they be much more diverse . I be not say that everybody be clamour for what the Government have lay out ; I be just say that those response address a diversity of issue , all of which we need to address . I thank the Minister for give way again , as he have on so many occasion during these debate , and for his ongoing engagement in these matter , but do he agree that if the Government do not act now to enforce the law , we will basically be allow what everyone already see as theft to continue ? would he accept that in any other industry , such as retail or farming ? my hon . friend be entirely right about the issue of enforcement , although traditionally it be not for government to enforce the law . it be for the court to do that , although in certain circumstance when there have be a breach of the criminal law , it will be for the prosecute authority to consider . in a way this make my point , which be that it be all very well to legislate on transparency requirement , but if there be no enforcement measure it will not make the blind bit of difference . all this have to be do in the round . we have already say that we want to engage with the creative sector and , of course , the technology sector as much as we can . we believe that such engagement will help to chart the way forward on both transparency and technical standard , and possibly on technical solution to the problem . it may be that the work group bring other benefit , such as interim voluntary arrangement , until long - term solution can be agree on and implement . however , we must see what come of the process rather than impose precondition at this early stage . for all those reason , I urge member to vote against the Lords amendment . the first part of the propose new clause be a helpful addition to the work that we will do and be now commit to do , but the lion ' s share of it would lead to what I believe be confuse law and constitutionally uncertain . I echo the comment of my hon . friend about how open and engage both the Minister and the Secretary of State have be on this issue . as for the consideration of work group , can the Minister confirm that the Government ' s policy be to ensure that both side be in the room at the same time , with the Minister and the Secretary of State ? this have be rehearse before ; the last Government fail , and talk break down . may I urge this government please to ensure that both voice hear each other ? their job be to manage that process , as well as lead it . I agree 100 % . there would be absolutely no point in not have both side — indeed , I would say several side — of the argument in the room at the same time . yesterday morning I have an interesting conversation with someone who be very prominent on the music scene . he tell I , in granular detail , what we would need to do for transparency in the music sector , but add that obviously it would be completely different for the publishing sector . that be the kind of detail we will have to go into . if we be to bring about a licensing regime that really work , it will have to work differently for sound , music , word and image , which mean that we will have to have all those people around the table , as well as AI — not just " big tech " , a phrase that be use frequently in their lordship ' House yesterday , but tech from the UK . that be a very important part of what we need to be promote . so yes , I can guarantee to my hon . friend that we will have everyone in the room , and also that we want to get on with it as soon as we possibly can — rise — and I want to be able to sit down as soon as I possibly can , but I be be prevent from do so . the Minister be be extremely generous , as he always be . I press he on this point on the last occasion when we meet across the Chamber , but some time have pass since then . he speak of deal with the issue " in the round " , which be a sentiment that I understand , but when ? can he give a timetable ? " as soon as possible " , I be afraid . I know that there be lot of parliamentary term for these matter , such as " imminently " and " soon " and so on . the difficulty be that there be plenty of other priority for legislation at the same time . I be not the Leader of the House , so I fear that I can not give a guarantee about a timeline , but we have give some guarantee about when the Secretary of State will report back to the House — within six month of Royal Assent , and I hope that that be within six month of " soon " — and we have give guarantee about our other report back , which will be within nine month , shorten from 12 month . rise — I will give way to the hon . Lady , and then I will try to crack on . I thank the Minister for give way again : he be be very generous . he have speak about try to bring the AI sector together with the creative industry . the last Government try that in response to the text and data mining exception . they form an AI working group , which , as the Minister know , fall into abeyance because the AI company do not engage . do he think that that could be a problem this time , and have he hear any signal from the big tech company that they would be more forthcoming with their engagement in response to this attempt ? we will make sure that they engage . in a strange way , I think that the campaign that have be lead by the hon . Lady and other , in the House of Lords and elsewhere , will help to make people engage in what will not necessarily be an easy process , but one that I think could deliver a win - win for we in the UK and could potentially enable we to lead for other country in the world . every indication that we have have thus far suggest that everyone want to sit in the room together , and , of course , we will have to provide significant leadership in those meeting to be able to drive they forward . as I say on the last occasion when I be talk about these matter at the Dispatch Box , I should like to be able to get on with that as soon as possible , but we have a duty to get the Bill out of the way first . let I now say a few word about ping - pong . as member will know , this be in large measure the same Bill that be present , twice , by the previous Government . the second Bill fall at the general election , but both major party commit themselves to reintroduce it , in a broadly similar form , in the new Parliament . none of the party intend to introduce any matter relate to copyright into the Bill when they discuss it in the run - up to , and during , the general election . I warmly commend those who be fight the corner of the creative industry — of course I do ; I be the creative industry Minister — but there come a point at which the Lords be bar the Commons from fulfil a pledge make by both major party . we shall now be enter the fourth round of ping - pong . few Bills in our history have go this many round . in the case of the Prevention of Terrorism Bill of 2004 - 05 and the Corporate Manslaughter and Corporate Homicide Bill 2006 - 07 , at issue be what the Government have put in rather than what it have not include . neither of those Bills have be openly advocate by both main party at a general election . by tradition , the House of Lords do not interfere with Bills to which government have commit themselves at the time of a general election . everyone agree that this Bill be a valuable piece of legislation , and for that reason I urge their lordship to let it pass into law . will the Minister give way ? oh , all right . the Minister be present at yesterday ' s debate . their lordship be acutely aware of not want to fetter the House of Commons , but at the same time they be try to represent thousand of people who be desperate about their income . I think it worth put on the record here that all those who speak be very aware of what they be do , but on balance feel that fight for the underdog be the good thing to do . I be not make an criticism of any individual Member of the House of Lords . I listen to the debate , and it be clear that people feel passionately and be argue entirely in good faith . I fully understand that . as I have say , however , this a Bill that be not intend to include element relate to AI and copyright . in the last Parliament it be support by the Conservative party and by we on the Opposition Benches , and be refer to by both side during our general election campaign . neither of we say that we be go to include anything about copyright in the Bill , but that be what be now hold up Royal Assent . there be economic benefit that would flow from the Bill , but they will of course be delay if we far delay Royal Assent . let I end by say that , as I think I have say several time , I fully understand the concern express by people in the creative industry about artificial intelligence . many use it already , but they be understandably concerned about where it will go , and they fear for their job . it be true that , for many , the strike in the US have an even more cataclysmic effect on their career , but I would just add one corrective to those fear . there be a moment at the end of " the Winter ' s Tale " when Paulina take Leontes to see a statue of his wife , who he think die of grief when he falsely accuse of her adultery many year early . we all know when we watch it in the theatre that the statue be actually the actress play Hermione ; it be not a statue at all . yet the moment when leonte touch the statue and say , " o , she ' s warm ! " , still shock we and bring tear to our eye . why ? because it be human to human . yes , of course it be artifice lay upon artifice , but it be humanity face to face that really move we . the Government have hear the concern express by this House and the other place , and we have set out our plan to address they . I believe the Bill must be allow to run its course . I call the shadow Minister . back again , and it feel a bit like groundhog day . I must confess that I be a Bill Murray fan , and I think " Groundhog Day " be a great movie . however , I realise that some member on both side of the House may not have be bear when it be release , which make I feel a little old , so I will explain a little of the plot . a weatherman set in his way be send to a town in Pennsylvania to report on groundhog day , and find himself in a time loop in which he live the same day over and over again . in due course , that lead to despair , but eventually he learn that this give he the opportunity to learn from his mistake — the time loop can be see as a blessing or an opportunity , not a curse — and through this he grow , develop and change . he then break out of the time loop to live happily ever after . we will be stick in groundhog day on this Bill until the Government realise that the Lords amendment be not a nuisance , but an opportunity , and that they need to listen to the concern and change course . the noble Lords in the House in which this Bill start have make clear the risk to creative from AI company take their datum , and the importance of fairness and transparency . we on the Opposition Benches and Members on both side of the House have raise similar concern , but we do not have the number yet . in Parliament , it be not sufficient to win the vote ; it be also necessary to win the argument , and the Government have lose this argument . copyright law be a toothless instrument if the lack of transparency about the use of creative content in AI model continue . the lack of transparency render the enforcement of right elusive , and the Government be apparently happy for this to persist on an open - end basis . while the Government ' s direction of travel remain uncertain , everyone lose out . creative continue to lose out when their work be exploit without payment . firm in the AI industry , especially small one , can not get out of the starting block , let alone play their part in turbocharge our tech economy . the Government continue to risk the confidence of both these key industry , with the chilling effect on investment that this entail . of course , we be sensitive to the constitutional principle , and noble Lords be very mindful of that topic in their speech in the other place . the Minister be right that it be almost unprecedented for the other place to return to a Bill so many time . however , rather than use this as a reason to try to push through the Bill , the Government need to listen to that evidence of the strength of feeling . we all know that the Government will have to respond to these concern , and their position will have to change . I would love to end this speech with a literary quote suit to the substance of the debate , and I envy the Minister ' s ability always to bring flair to our discussion across the Dispatch Box . instead , I will fall back on a political one from the 38th american President , Gerald Ford : " compromise be the oil that make government go . " the Government should meet the Lords on the compromise they have offer , put oil in the engine of our creative and AI industry , and bring an end to this groundhog day . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . here we be again . once again , I would like to thank those in the other place who have work so hard on these amendment , and indeed member across the House who have stand up for creative . we be back here again two week later to discuss and vote on Lords amendment 49f to secure the right of creative in the change face of AI . what have change in those two week ? an awful lot actually . forty eight hour before we vote on the amendment on 20 May , the late big AI tech launch occur when Google launch Veo 3 — literally an all - talk , all - singe , all - dance AI video creator , the like of which we have never see before . seeing be believe , and even when you see it , you will not always be able to believe that what you be see be not real . the emotion of the character create by binary code , a series of zero and one , have already have I laugh , feel and thinking ; their joke like a stand - up comedian , the light of the sunset comparable to stand at the Ashridge beech wood as a perfect day ' s golden hour arrive , the tangible fear of the binary character represent the actress , the director and the artist question what this mean for they . the engineering , the development and , dare I say it , the creativity that have go into develop such software be epic . there be no deny that , but I can not help but wonder if all the value come from the engineering and the computing . what about the period drama , the beauty of child ' s illustration , the wit of the one - liner and the fast - pace thriller that have help to train this cinematic experience at the touch of a prompt ? as far as I can discover , Google representative have previously mention that , as well as publicly available content , YouTube may have be use to train the model . I wonder how many must feel , see their creation replicate . of course , this be just one example of the AI development happen every minute . the alarm bell that creative have be ring have come to fruition a thousand time over . as much as I be sure that many creative be excited about the possibility , many will be question the implication for their industry , and this be just the tip of the iceberg . just this afternoon , I speak to creative from the Creators ’ Rights Alliance , who have proof of their work be essentially copy against their will . artist , writer , photographer , filmmaker , singer and songwriter be watch their life ' s work swallow up . I have not even speak about Lyria , which write music , or the thousand of other development come out of AI — incredible development that we must celebrate , but we must also ensure that the creative work that have go into it be also value . while technology move at pace , our framework for accountability have not keep up . in this moment , as artificial intelligence reshape how creative work be use , adjust and commercialise , the time for reflection be behind we . I appreciate the Government talk about protect right and the action they be take , but the time for real action be now . that be why I urge member across the House to vote for Lords amendment 49f , to ensure transparency of business datum be use in relation to AI model , a proportionate approach that call to establish transparency . I urge the Government to also move at pace to protect creator ' right with a plan and with everyone around the table , something we have hear across the House today . as I walk around Little Gaddesden art fair this weekend , I see the bright colour and joy that have be create by Sally Bassett , Alison Bateson and Andrew Dixon . right at the end of the road , little Gaddesden village hall be where part of " the Crown " be film . I think of the legendary story about Picasso , which many member may know . at a parisian market , an admirer approach Picasso and ask if he could do a quick sketch on a napkin . he kindly oblige , create art on the napkin . he hand it back to she , but not before ask for 1 million franc . " but it only take you five minute , " bark the admirer . " no , " Picasso reply , " it take I 40 year to be able to draw this in five minute . " give that prompt can create art , whether song , print , film or story , in second , who be be renumerate for the year of work that have go into it ? I urge member across the House to vote for Lords amendment 49f . we must find a solution to ensure that human creativity be truly value . first , the Ministers , who I like personally and rate a lot , unfortunately do not control the timetable of Government business . secondly , they do not have a Bill in the King ' s Speech . thirdly , my prediction be that they will be promote before this new Bill come to pass . the speech be honest , but what they expose be that there be no time commitment whatever from those on the Government Benches to bring back a Bill to this House to address the current property theft rain down on the UK creative industry . that be why the creative industry and the debate in the other place , which we listen to yesterday , be so passionate . theft of the property right of composer , writer , filmmaker and other creative have be happen for year . they continue to happen and will continue to happen until the new Bill come forward ; great and great volume of intellectual property and hard - fight right fall into the AI hopper never to be see again , and no system of redress other than expensive legal action to get it back . how would we feel if it be our own property , business or land — if it be remove without we even be ask , with the gentle reassurance that we could take action retrospectively ? creative be desperate . Most do not have the worker ' right the majority of we have , or thing such as pension or holiday pay ; all they have be their intellectual property right . where will the incentive be now to toil for week , month and year create a piece of music or write a text , only to have it snatch away when success arrive ? there be an irony , with the Government return shortly with the Employment Rights Bill , that creative worker ’ right continue to be so erode . the transparency amendment in front of we today be a much diluted version of the previous Kidron amendment send to we from the other place . it set out a clear timeline for when the Government must return with a Bill , which be a modest request ; the Government will still be able to delay the Bill , should they want to , and , to be honest , the creative industry will still not have the opportunity to protect their work in the meantime . the amendment should be accept because it will provide reassurance to a key UK sector . however , it should also be accept as an example of our two Chambers respect each other . no one in the debate yesterday , listen to the word of Baroness Kidron , Lord Forsyth or other , could feel they be try to cause the Government problem . each and every supporter of the amendment do so on the basis of support for the right of those work in one of the UK ' s lead economic sector , who be plead with we for their survival and to work positively with this new technological development . our politic be currently jam - pack with black and white position and an instinct to jump to disagreement and polarisation . the Lords amendment before we today represent a modest proposal to disagree well , and the Government should accept it . I be not go to say anything in this round of ping pong , but a couple of thing in the debate have tempt I to my foot . the first thing I want to say be about the House of Lords . I have to say that I congratulate their lordship on their tenacity on this issue ; I think we both expect and presume that they would have back down a long time ago , but they have decide not to , and I think that be because of what I have hear today . they be back the sector . it have be leave to the Lords to ensure that the voice of our artist and those in our creative industry and sector be adequately articulate and present to Ministers , so I congratulate they on that . I say that as somebody who be no great respecter of the House of Lords — I have this cute little notion that someone serve in a legislature should be elect to that legislature . the Lords have do an exemplary job in all this , and they be entirely entitle to bring forward this matter again and again until the ministerial team find some sort of compromise , which , between the two of they , they will surely be able to do . this be the territory we be in now ; this be the fourth round of ping pong . it be no good we just send it back to the Lords again and again . the Government can insist and get their way , of course : they be the Government , and this be the primary House in our Parliament , so they can do that if they want . but why would they not sit down and work out a way forward that take on board everything the Lords want to achieve and secure and that meet the noble ambition and lofty rhetoric we have hear from those on the Government Front Bench today and the last few time this have be debate ? I can not see anything wrong with the amendment . it sound like the Minister be invent reason as to why it could not be agree to . the example from the Digital Economy Act be spot on : we be adaptable and do thing as the situation require in order to meet the challenge of the time — a huge challenge , when digitisation be come into our creative art . this be a big challenge and test . this be more existential than the Digital Economy Act of 20 year ago , and that be why we must act now . People can not wait . our cultural heritage be be scrape and hoover up by large tech company , and soon there will be nothing leave of it . million of creative artist be wait for the Government to engage — to sort it out , compromise and do something with those with an interest in all this . the Government be convince no one thus far ; the creative industry do not believe that they have their good interest at heart or that we will have enough time to secure what be leave of our cultural heritage . the Government should do something — do not just send the Bill away again , although they probably will , and have it come back to we . sit down , compromise and get something sort out and , for the sake of our creative industry , find a solution that work for everybody . question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 49f . Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Calvin Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Chris Bryant Julia Buckley David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Liam Byrne Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Yvette Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Chris Curtis Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Kate Dearden Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Paulette Hamilton Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Patrick Hurley Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Louise Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Sonia Kumar Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Anneliese Midgley Ed Miliband Julie Minns Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Kate Osamor Tristan Osborne Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Ellie Reeves Martin Rhodes Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Baggy Shanker Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Jo Stevens will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Gen Kitchen Taiwo Owatemi Shockat Adam Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Kirsty Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Gregory Campbell Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Ellie chown James Cleverly Lewis cock Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Ann davy Mims davy David Davis Bobby Dean Carla Denyer Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Alex Easton Sorcha Eastwood Luke Evans Tim Farron Stephen Flynn Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Z ö e Franklin George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Andrew George Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Helen Grant Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Adnan Hussain Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Ben Lake Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Julia Lopez James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Mike Martin Brian Mathew Jerome Mayhew John Martin McDonnell Esther McVey Llinos Medi Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Tessa Munt Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Sarah Pochin Shivani Raja Adrian Ramsay David Reed Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Ian Roome Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Mel Stride Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Nick Timothy Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Pete Wishart Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young will Forster Charlie Maynard the House divide : Ayes 317 , Noes 185 . question accordingly agree to . Lords amendment 49f disagree to . order , that a Committee be appoint to draw up a Reason to be assign to the Lords for disagree to their amendment 49f ; that Chris Bryant , Anna Turley , Callum Anderson , Luke Myer , Adam Jogee , Dr Ben Spencer and Victoria Collins be member of the Committee ; that Chris Bryant be the Chair of the Committee ; that three be the quorum of the Committee . that the Committee do withdraw immediately . — ( Chris Elmore . ) committee to withdraw immediately ; reason to be report and communicate to the Lords . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Medicines that the draft Human Medicines ( amendment relate to Hub and Spoke Dispensing etc . ) regulation 2025 , which be lay before this House on 29 April , be approve . — ( Chris Elmore . ) question agree to . business of the House Ordered , that , at this day ' s sit , the business determine by the Backbench Business Committee may be proceed with for up to two hour after the commencement of proceeding on the motion for this order , or until 7 . 00pm , whichever be the late , and shall then lapse if not previously dispose of ; those proceeding may be enter upon and may continue , though oppose , after the moment of interruption ; and Standing Order No . 41a ( defer division ) shall not apply . — ( Lucy Powell . ) Backbench Business Dementia Care I beg to move , that this House have consider dementia care . I thank the Backbench Business Committee for grant time for this important debate and member for support it , as well as the charity and organisation that have provide material . Dementia be undoubtedly one of the most urgent health and care challenge face our society , and I know that most of we in this Chamber will know someone affect by it . my family be currently battle it on two front . my confident , witty , generous father - in - law be now almost unrecognisable as the man he use to be . he be lucky to be live in a lovely care home where he receive the good care possible , but the decision to move he there be heartbreaking . my brilliant , funny cousin , always the life and soul of family party , be diagnose far too early with frontotemporal dementia , which be likely to affect her ability to communicate over time — a particularly cruel diagnosis for someone so young . watch people we love become confused by the world around they , unable to communicate and fade away from we while so physically present be heart - wrench . Dementia have to be one of the cruell condition for those afflict and for those support they . as we be neatly place between Dementia Week and Carers Week , it be fitting that we should discuss this condition with which 900 , 000 people in the UK be live , most over the age of 65 . Dementia be now the lead cause of death in the UK , and while its scale be national , its impact be deeply local and personal . it be already widespread as our population age , and that number be expect to rise sharply . accord to NHS England , one in 11 people over the age of 65 have dementia , and that rise to one in six for those over 80 . in Devon , which have one of the old population in England , this issue be not just come ; it be already here . unless we act now to improve diagnosis , care and support , we will fail ten of thousand of family in our community . a timely diagnosis be not just about put a name to a condition ; it be also the essential first step towards access care , plan for the future and , increasingly , receive treatment . new disease - modify drug for Alzheimer ' s offer real hope , but only if the disease be catch early and diagnose accurately . in October 2023 , the all - party parliamentary group on dementia publish a report highlight the significant regional disparity in dementia diagnosis across England . the finding be stark . while Stoke - on - Trent have the high diagnosis rate , at 90 % , the South Hams — much of which lie in my constituency of South Devon — have the low rate nationally , at just 44 % . as a fellow South Hams representative , I wonder whether the hon . Lady would agree that the Government ' s lack of focus and target for dementia diagnosis be have a particular impact on rural constituency such as our , give that treatment be so dependent on diagnosis . do she also agree that the work of local group such as the Dementia Friendly Parishes around the Yealm be go to be vital to increase diagnosis in our community in Devon ? I thank the hon . member for her contribution , and I agree that community group such as the one around the Yealm be vital in care for people with dementia . Devon as a whole be fall worryingly behind . as of March 2025 , our county ' s dementia diagnosis rate stand well below the national average , place Devon 39th out of 42 NHS system in England . at the same time , demand for service be increase sharply . referral to the Devon memory service have surge by 94 % of the past five year , yet no additional investment have be make to meet this rise need . in Torbay the pressure be especially acute , with some individual now wait up to 20 week for an assessment . a diagnosis can change life . it provide clarity , access to support and the opportunity to plan for the future . it have prove to help people live well with dementia , but without investment people be be lock out of vital service , include support group . one local dementia charity tell I : " until there be a formal diagnosis , patient and their family can not access our Memory Cafes , as our funding require a confirmed diagnosis to provide support . " I know from family member that this kind of support can make a world of difference , give carer contact with other who truly understand the pressure and strain of care for a much - love relative who be slowly but surely lose themselves to this awful condition . the hon . Member speak about community group and their importance . in recent month I have have the pleasure of join and support lot of dementia support group , include South East London Mind ' s young onset dementia activist group , Beckenham dementia caf é , and Beckenham and Penge dementia caf é , and Angela from Bromley Dementia Friendly Community . will she join I in acknowledge the incredible act of kindness that such group do every single day , so often motivate by their personal experience of dementia ? I absolutely commend all those group — the hon . Member be lucky to have so many in his constituency . like many other diagnosis that can be equally shocking to receive , dementia have no cure . approved medication offer limited benefit only in the early stage and not for everyone . for those in the moderate to late stage , the most effective treatment be access to information to navigate the social care system and good - quality care . that mean personalised , respectful and consistent support not only for the individual but for their family too , and that family support be critical . across Devon and beyond , unpaid carer bear the overwhelming weight of responsibility . there be a physical , financial and emotional toll from the moment of diagnosis , yet respite support be sparse and , in many place , non - existent . I share the hon . member ' s deep commitment to ensure quality care within our community — something I see at first hand last year during my visit to Warren Farm Lodge care home in Kingstanding . the dedication of the staff leave a lasting impression . do she agree that we need to work with the Government to urgently develop a blueprint for transform dementia diagnosis ? the hon . Member have beat I to it — I absolutely agree . the lack of respite support be push carer into crisis , and when that happen the result be clear : fast entry into long - term care , increase hospital admission , more GP appointment and distress for everyone involve . the hon . member be absolutely right that respite care be important . in my constituency , Sandhurst day centre offer fantastic respite care , allow people with dementia to stay as active and as social as possible for as long as possible , which we know also keep people out of hospital for long . do she agree that we need to see more support for day centre such as Sandhurst day centre ? I could not agree more — I be sure I will agree with most of the intervention in this debate . this do not have to be the outcome . we know that with the right support at the right time , people can live well with dementia at home , and that reduce pressure on service and improve quality of life . one in four hospital bed be occupy by someone live with dementia , and there be a 50 % high hospital readmission rate for those who have dementia than the general population , with one in three people live with the condition never receive a diagnosis . do the hon . Member agree that the key be to get that early diagnosis , so that help and support can come in early , which will have well prospect for the individual and their family ? I absolutely agree that early diagnosis be one of the key thing that make a difference to anyone live with dementia . we talk a lot about social care in this place , and the Liberal Democrats have champion the cause of carer — those thousand of people who quietly and lovingly dedicate themselves to care for someone they love , often someone suffer from dementia . these carer be , because of the nature of this disease , often elderly themselves and , because of a postcode lottery , be sometimes leave to just get on with it themselves without the vital support and advice that they so desperately need . I echo the hon . Lady ' s comment about the vital role that family carer and unpaid carer play in enable people with dementia to live well at home . do she agree that , in addition to formal respite care , community support from group in my constituency such as the Wrose Dementia Friendly Community Support Group and Shipley Memories Group be vital to give carer little break , when they have an opportunity to get out of the house and meet other carer like they ? have regular , small chunk of respite be absolutely vital for carer . a constituent have write to I to tell I the story of her mother , who be diagnose with dementia in 2020 . her father be 86 and the primary carer . they spend over £ 7 , 000 on five week of respite . do the hon . Member agree that we need to expand respite centre , day centre and home care to ensure that family be not leave by themselves ? I could not agree more . if we have little chunk of regular respite care , people would not end up have to pay for several week , just to recover from the care that they be provide . there be some brilliant project work to support family afflict by dementia , and several of they have be mention already . one of the most inspiring example that I have see be the Filo Project , a community interest company that offer dementia support in Devon , Cornwall , Somerset and east Lancashire , and which have recently expand to Bournemouth . the Filo Project take its name from the pastry , refer to the many layer that make up a personality — the layer that be cruelly and silently strip away by dementia . the project provide high - quality , community - base day care for people with early to moderate dementia , and what make it so powerful be its simple approach : small , weekly group support in the home of a host , where people with dementia spend the day receive the attention , care and companionship they need . that not only help they , but provide their family with regular and crucial respite and support . I commend founder Libby Price and Dr Liz Dennis , who I believe be in the Gallery today . it be a model that work , and it have make a tangible difference to many family . there be a critical need for more community - base initiative such as the Filo Project , and one of my direct ask of the Minister today be that vat be remove from such service . although dementia patient can access good and service exempt from vat , they have to pay it on the care provide by the Filo Project and other like it . family support by the project have pay more than £ 700 , 000 in vat for care since the group be set up 10 year ago , and the extra cost restrict who can afford to take part , so I urge the Minister to remove this burden . while the Government be face mount pressure from all side to find additional funding , it be worth note that invest in community - base project be a fraction of the cost of the NHS , yet the impact be transformational , benefit family across the country and ultimately save money . like every Member here , I have many constituent who have explain that navigate such a complex web of health and social care service be absolutely exhausting . for many family , it lead to crisis before help arrive . will the hon . member join I in call on the Government to tackle the delay and disparity in dementia diagnosis , and to ensure that there be investment in diagnostic capacity , include the fantastic memory clinic that hon . member have speak about today ? I absolutely agree . in 2023 , Devon see the closure of its dementia advice service after 10 year because of a cut in funding under the previous Government — a decision that leave a significant gap in community support across the county . the service offer vital information , practical advice , and tip and strategy on cope with dementia , as well as signpost to legal and financial support , and the closure be a blow to many family already struggle to cope . it be a scandal that Devon ' s integrated care board have neglect old adult by cut a service that be design to prevent early care home and hospital admission , and to ease pressure on primary care . however , there be hope on the horizon . Devon have recently develop a new countywide Devon dementia strategy , which aim to bring about real and meaningful change for those live with dementia and their loved one . write in collaboration with over 40 organisation , it set out what be need in dementia care today and for the foreseeable future , and I commend they for their work . this strategy be vital , and so be the funding to support the measure it highlight . dementia prevalence in the area cover by Devon ' s ICB be expect to rise by 54 % between 2023 and 2040 , and by then , over 33 , 700 people in Devon will be live with dementia . now be the moment to act , to ensure that this strategy be not just a document that sit on a shelf but become a drive force for well service , early diagnosis and more consistent support . I would like to briefly share the story of one of my constituent , Michael , to illustrate why this be so urgent . Michael ' s wife begin show sign of dementia six year ago and be diagnose with moderate to severe Alzheimer ' s nearly five year ago . as her symptom worsen , her condition become more difficult to manage , and she be eventually sectioned as be a danger to herself . at that point , the NHS take over her care , and she be now in a home where she be receive very good care . Michael have nothing but praise for his gp , the old people ' s mental health team and his local hospital for their support . however , his experience have highlight critical gap in the system . he recall the complete lack of day care facility to provide respite before his wife go to hospital and the overstretched system that be unable to assess people quickly or provide necessary help , either at home or in day care . I be most grateful to the hon . member for lead this debate so effectively and raise these important issue . she will be aware that three in four dementia carer have no alternative plan in place if they be unable to provide care . many of they be terrified about what will happen to their love one if they be no long there to provide care , and nine in 10 have already reach crisis point , with burnout and depression . do she agree that dementia carer need to be fully support to put alternative care arrangement in place ? may I urge the Minister to implement a carer strategy that set out carer ' right and what support carer should receive when it come to alternative provision ? so many thousand of people be do this care for free , at home , live under this burden and worry about what will happen if they be no long there . they deserve recognition and help to put those plan in place , in case something happen to they — that be crucial . for many family , access respite care be a huge challenge . care for someone with dementia be often a 24 / 7 job and be utterly exhausting , yet unpaid carer like Michael be save the country billion of pound and be often do so without the support they need . Michael echo the call I have hear in my own family for the Government to do more to support carer by ensure they have access to regular respite care . we must also urgently examine the funding and availability of care home that can support high - need dementia patient . I thank the hon . member for take so many intervention ; it be very welcome . as she will be aware , health be devolve to the Scottish Government , and we scot have a slightly different system . however , Alzheimer Scotland have call on the Scottish Government to commit to recognise that the need of people with advanced dementia be healthcare need and to ensure equality of access to appropriate health and nursing care that be free at the point of delivery , regardless of our geography . do she agree that that be what we all want for our love one ? there be a lack of equity , be there not ? I look at Hansard , and dementia have be mention 192 time since the general election last year , but cancer have be mention nearly 1 , 000 time — we have speak about cancer five time more than we have about dementia . that shine a light on what a hidden problem it be , and yet it be not hide , because we all have experience of it . we must urgently examine the funding and availability of care home and find a way to reduce the staggering cost , which can cripple family finance and local authority budget . House of Commons Library research commission by the Liberal Democrats have show that the cost of care in nursing home increase by 61 % from 2015 to 2022 . that be why the Liberal Democrats be call for the introduction of free personal care in England , base on the model introduce by the party in government in Scotland in 2002 , so that provision be base on need , not ability to pay . the hon . member be be extremely generous with her time . be she concerned , along with the Alzheimer ' s Society , that more than 71 % of carer for people with dementia have no formal training whatsoever , although dementia require very specific care and training ? will she join I in call on the Government to introduce mandatory training for all those who care for our love one with dementia ? I thank the hon . member for his intervention — I have not quite get there yet , but it be in my speech . we be also call for a cross - party commission to form a long - term agreement on sustainable funding for social care in England . last week I meet journalist John Suchet , whose wife Bonnie die of dementia . he be now married to Nula , who lose her husband James to a rare form of dementia know as Pick ' s disease , diagnose when he be just 57 . John and Nula meet in the care home where they be support their partner . they support each other along a terrible journey and have both since write book about their experience . in Nula ' s book she say : " Dementia , dementia , what be it ? I still know very little . all I know be , it ' s a bloody cruel , sadistic disease , that have demolish my hope , plan and dream . it have take away my life , twist it and mangle it , and so it can claim another victim — two for the price of one … with absolutely no professional support — no - one at all monitor his or my journey as they would , for instance , a cancer or Parkinson ' s patient . I be entirely alone . " it should not and must not be like that for the carer who give up everything to look after someone they love . this be where the Government must step in . we need a clear strategy to support people with dementia and their family at every stage . that start with an urgent review of NHS continue healthcare , so that dementia - specific need , especially cognitive and behavioural need , be properly recognise , with specialist involve in assessment . no one should face dementia alone . family must have access to a specialist dementia nurse , regular health and wellbeing review , and co - ordinate , join - up care . we also need a national framework for young onset dementia , ensure timely diagnosis , tailor support , and fair access to care . to relieve pressure on hospital , every NHS acute trust should have a specialist dementia nurse service , back by ringfence funding . invest in dementia support will clearly save the NHS money in the long term . I be sure the Minister know these statistic , but I will read they out : people with dementia visit the gp three time more often than someone without dementia ; 25 % of people with dementia live in their own home be admit to hospital with a potentially treatable condition ; 25 % of hospital bed be occupy by people with dementia , and they stay in hospital twice as long as other people age over 65 ; and 43 % of people with dementia in hospital be there due to urinary tract and chest infection , both of which be treatable at home . a voluntary , community and social enterprise response to the closure of the Devon adviser service show that dementia support worker be cost - effective , and that every £ 1 invest in dementia support worker role result in almost £ 4 - worth of benefit . compare that with the cost of a hospital stay . over 85 % of dementia patient with a hip fracture stay for up to 14 day , and 34 % for over a month , despite the national average length of stay be just seven day . the extra cost be estimate at around £ 6 , 000 per patient . the Alzheimer ' s Society say between 2015 and 2020 , " almost 336 , 000 admission cost almost £ 1 billion to the NHS be for chest infection , delirium , fall and UTIs , all of which can be prevent or manage well in the community . " clearly , this be a strong case for invest to save . clinical care must go hand in hand with long overdue social care reform . the Liberal Democrats be call for a comprehensive social care workforce plan , the creation of a royal college of care worker , and a high carer ' s minimum wage to reflect the value of this essential work . unpaid carer also need support , with pay leave , respite break , and proper recognition . finally , we must expand dementia training across the sector , back by a national care agency to uphold standard and register care worker . the Care Quality Commission have just publish a report that underline the importance of reform . its finding be alarming , confirm that health and social care staff frequently lack understanding about the specific need of dementia patient . the Alzheimer ' s Society estimate that only 29 % of pay carer have training in dementia . Dementia be a grow issue and the system be already under strain . right now , approximately 30 % of general hospital bed in Devon be occupy by people with dementia , many of whom be there because of preventable condition . a sustainable strategy for dementia care must focus on community - base support , early diagnosis , carer support and workforce training . that be not only the right thing to do ; it will save money in the long run . it be time that we treat dementia care not as a burden , but as a vital part of build a compassionate and sustainable future for everyone affect . I thank the hon . member for South Devon ( Caroline Voaden ) for secure this important debate , which shine vital light on an issue that affect so many family across this country , especially in my constituency of Redditch and the village . over 900 , 000 people in the UK be currently live with dementia , and by 2040 that number be expect to rise to 1 . 6 million . however , the challenge be not just the grow number of people affect , but the poor support that many receive and the inequality that persist in diagnosis and care . it be estimate that only about 65 % of people age 65 or over who be think to have dementia actually have a record diagnosis , which mean that far too many people be miss out on vital help early on . that be especially true in community include ethnic minority and in deprive area . I have be contact by many family in Redditch who describe the distress of waiting month — sometimes year — for a diagnosis or clear guidance on what to do next . one particularly heartbreaking aspect be the many family who be force to sell the home of a parent who no long know that they can not return home . these home often represent a lifetime of memory , yet family face that heartbreaking decision simply because the system do not provide adequate care option . a particularly worrying fact cite by Age UK be that 19 % of people it speak to be concern about access dementia service — they do not know where to turn or feel unable to get the support they need . we also have to confront the huge variation in care home capacity across England ' s integrate care board area . in some part of the country , care home availability simply can not meet demand , limit option for people with dementia and their family . this postcode lottery mean that some people wait long or must travel far from home for care , which be unacceptable . the challenge face by our NHS be also starkly evident in dementia care . too many patient with dementia be catch up in the crisis of corridor care , where bed be not available and patient wait in hospital corridor for hour or even day . it be deeply distress for patient and their family , and exacerbate the risk of deterioration . such failure be a direct consequence of year of under - investment in our NHS , which have stretch resource to breaking point . my own mother serve in the NHS for 40 year . she witness at first hand both its strength and its struggle . I know how deeply commit this Government be , just as the then Government be in the late 1990 , to rebuild and reinveste in our NHS . the recent commitment to increase funding and recruit more staff be step in the right direction , but we must ensure that translate into real improvement in dementia care on the ground . my hon . friend be make a powerful speech . one of my constituent have a grandma who wait a staggering 18 month for a dementia diagnosis . the family do not have the £ 3 , 000 require to get a private diagnosis . my hon . Friend mention the need to increase the resource available to the NHS and how commit this Government be , so will he join I in encourage the Minister to direct resource not just to dementia care , but to dementia diagnosis , so people can get the diagnosis they need fast ? my hon . friend ' s intervention highlight inequality throughout the country and reaffirm why the hon . member for South Devon seek this debate . People who can not access private care be put at a huge disadvantage , which be simply not acceptable , so I agree with my hon . friend ' s call to the Government . we know that people with dementia be far more likely to have unplanned hospital admission , which can cause distress and often worsen their condition . that show why we urgently need well community care , and why hospital staff must have improve dementia training to provide the care that these patient deserve . the economic cost of dementia to the UK be enormous ; include healthcare , social care and the wide cost to society , it be estimate to be over £ 42 billion a year . the huge financial burden highlight the importance not only of invest in medical research but of improve support and care infrastructure . unpaid carer play a massive and often overlook role . in fact , family member and friend provide the majority of care for people live with dementia . woman make up a disproportionate share of unpaid carer , balance that demand role alongside work and other responsibility . their contribution be invaluable but can come at a significant personal cost , include financial strain , mental and physical exhaustion , and social isolation . Age UK have make it clear that the system be overstretch and underfunde . People in Redditch , and everywhere else , deserve consistent , high - quality care that respect their dignity no matter where they live . my hon . friend be make an excellent speech . in particular , I commend he for the way in which he have talk about the support that relative often give as caregiver . will he elaborate a little far on the point he make about the need for more resource to be focus on less advantaged community ? my own experience in represent a community that have some disadvantage be that people in those community , particularly family from ethnic minority background , need far more support . I completely agree . it be clear from the datum that disadvantage community and those from ethnic minority be not get the target support that they need ; I see that in my constituency , particularly in the Winyates district of Redditch . the data show a very clear reason for further intervention . diagnosis be only the start . the Alzheimer ' s Society call for a minimum standard of good quality post - diagnosis support , but real fault remain . too many people receive little or no clear information after diagnosis . they be leave to navigate a confusing maze of service alone , with inconsistent follow - up and limited access to support group or counselling . that gap leave family isolate and unsure about manage symptom or plan for the future , increase stress and uncertainty during a profoundly difficult time . carer also bear an incredible burden . family in Redditch tell I about exhaustion and isolation . we need well respite care , as the hon . member for South Devon say , and well financial support and mental health service for carer . too many of my resident rely on the voluntary sector for support in their community ; I particularly commend the Astwood Bank memory caf é for the work that it do . we must improve the skill of those care for people with dementia . the Alzheimer ' s Society call for mandatory , high - quality dementia training for all adult social care worker . hospital staff need well access to dementia training too , because too many patient experience distress and delay because staff do not have the skill that they need . importantly , dementia must have parity of esteem with cancer in funding and Government prioritisation . Dementia affect million and carry a massive societal and economic cost . it deserve the same urgent intention , investment and commitment that cancer receive so that research , care and support can improve in step . while invest in research be important , we can not forget the urgent need to improve care for those people live with dementia . Dementia care be a test of our value . I be sure that no one in this House believe that anyone should face this journey alone or without support . we should all be commit to build a fair , more compassionate care system that deliver for all , include the people of Redditch and the village . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for South Devon ( Caroline Voaden ) on secure this very important debate . there be hardly a healthcare issue so big that we do not talk enough about as dementia . perhaps that be because it be one of the most fear disease , for understandable reason . for decade upon decade — unlike cancer , for example — there have be very little tangible scientific progress , until recently . as the chair of the all - party parliamentary group on access to medicine and medical device , I will focus my remark on those treatment . breakthrough be come through thick and fast , with the UK ' s Medicines and Healthcare product Regulatory Agency approve two disease - modify therapy in 2024 for Alzheimer ' s . those medicine chart a path to a time when Alzheimer ' s and other form of dementia be a treatable condition that can be delay to the point where it be , for all intent and purpose , cure . that be incredibly exciting for family such as mine with a history of Alzheimer ' s , and more be on the way . More than 100 medicine be be investigate , so it be a matter of not if , but when new medicine come forward , yet the UK be not ready . the alarm have be raise , but no one be listen . the last Government be asleep at the wheel , and I fear that this Government be too . move from a system focus entirely on care to prevention and treatment will require a monumental shift in thinking that break down departmental silos and redistribute budget to treatment . we know that reverse brain damage be nigh impossible , but prevent it be not . that be why early detection and diagnosis be so critical . dementia begin without symptom as early as people ' s 40 or 50 . we need to identify those people before the onset of decline , but that require a system with sufficient diagnostic capacity . that mean improve GP wait time , increase capacity at memory clinic and a massive increase in magnetic resonance imaging , positron emission tomography and lumbar puncture test capacity . the lack of capital investment in our NHS have leave we dangerously expose , with the low number of MRI scanner per capita in the OECD . the UK have 6 . 1 system per million people . in Germany , the rate be 30 . 5 . emerge diagnostic , include the blood biomarker be investigate at the Warneford in Oxfordshire , need to be embrace alongside get the basic right . the Government must also look actively at how the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence assess new medicine in dementia . both lecanemab and donanemab be approve by the MHRA and then reject by NICE on the same day . that mean the MHRA believe these medicine be safe and effective , but NICE believe they too expensive for the NHS , because it fail to consider the economic and social benefit , include saving to informal care . do we want a system where those who can pay privately for medicine that delay dementia get treatment , and those who can not , do not ? even when a new therapy be approve by the MHRA , give the green light by NICE and by some miracle we have diagnostic capacity , patient still may not get their hand on it . depend on how a new medicine be deliver , we may not have enough infusion capacity . if it be a pill , we will be in luck , but we can not bank on that . the truth be that the NHS can not cope with the innovation we all want in dementia . my message to the Government be simple : get ready . I hope the Minister for Care will take note of one final point : please stop punt problem down to the icb . my recent write parliamentary question , ask what step the Government be take to increase the number of Alzheimer ' s disease specialist , be answer by he yesterday , and he say : " the provision of dementia health care service be the responsibility of local integrate care board " . the hon . Member be make a powerful speech , especially with that last point . be he , like I , concern that icb will have their funding cut by 50 % ? Dementia will be one of the many condition that will suffer because of that . like the hon . member , I be incredibly frustrated that whenever I put concern to the Minister , I get point towards the icb , and when I talk to the icb , they tell I to talk to the Minister . there must be responsibility within our system . the Minister have be in politic for long than I , but I hope he will allow I to offer he a little advice . it be not the icb that the people of this country be angry with when it come to not get the treatment they deserve ; it be the Government . they expect the Government to take responsibility , not pass the buck . my dad be a gp in Hartlepool for 33 year . when I be young , I be never more impressed than when he would talk to I about his medical knowledge . the depth of his knowledge be extraordinary , and one of the trick he use to be able to do at any give moment be take any two number I give he and divide they or multiply they and get the answer right when I check on the calculator . it be a rare skill , and his impact over those 33 year mean that when I go into politic the most common thing I hear on the doorstep be , " be you the doctor ' s son ? " he do tell I recently that someone have ask he whether he be the MP ' s dad , and I take that as a small victory . in Hartlepool , there be 1 , 299 people live with dementia , and my dad be one of they . he be diagnose with Alzheimer ' s five year after he retire . speak to my mum , who obviously be his carer , too , we both agree that it feel like we have already go through a form of bereavement , because the person who bring I up be not quite there any more . he be happy , and he enjoy his grandchild , but it be different . I want to see that change for other people , because early diagnosis be critical . my dad do not get the early diagnosis that he should have receive , and we have pay the consequence as we have go forward . in Hartlepool , we be pioneer a new dementia strategy . I be so proud of Hartlepool borough council , because as part of that strategy , the council have commit to ensure that 100 % of its social care staff have dementia training , so that this evil disease — I do mean evil — can be catch and well treat at an early stage . as we have already hear from the hon . member for South Devon ( Caroline Voaden ) , only 29 % of social care staff in this country have any form of dementia training . I impress on the Minister that that must change . Dementia be the define health and social care challenge of our time . it impact one in two of we — 50 % of the population — either through be diagnose ourselves , or have someone in our life diagnose with it . despite this reality , too many people live with dementia and their family struggle to access necessary support . the lack of an integrate care pathway often lead to family be lead into fragmented and complex system , where they can easily fall through the crack and reach crisis point . shockingly , one in four hospital bed be occupy by a person live with dementia , and those people face hospital readmission at rate 50 % high than the general population . we must improve specialist dementia support , both in hospital and in our community . that be not just a moral imperative ; it be vital for build the health service that we want , one that be fit for the future . the forthcoming 10 - year health plan present a crucial opportunity to rectify those shortcoming . my hon . friend be make a powerful speech . I have work in this area of policy and service , and I be aware that some of the most powerful advocate for change in dementia care be people with dementia themselves and their family . do he agree that , when formulate new strategy for dementia care , people with dementia must be fully include in make those plan , base on their own experience ? I thank my hon . friend for his intervention . in a completely unplanned way , the next sentence in my speech be , " it be essential that the voice of those affect by dementia be at the forefront of these NHS reform " , so his intervention be very timely and deadly accurate . we must ensure that the clinical support and person - centre care that reduce the risk of crisis and unnecessary hospital admission come to the fore . to that end , I urge Government Ministers to commit to provide ringfenced funding for a dementia specialist nurse in each NHS acute trust , and to integrate specialist nurse such as admiral nurse — I be so proud to meet they here in Parliament recently — into multidisciplinary neighbourhood health centre . with 1 million people currently live with dementia , and with that number project to rise to 1 . 6 million by 2040 , as we have hear today , we literally can not afford delay . the economic impact of dementia be estimate to reach £ 90 billion by 2040 , with 40 % of care cost bear by family and unpaid carer . it be time for action . one of the consequence of my father ' s Alzheimer ' s diagnosis be that that evil disease have do to he what it do to so many : it rob people of their strength , but it exacerbate their weakness too . my father now struggle with travel , and despite my election in July last year , it be very unlikely that he will ever get here to see I stand in Parliament . in his name — Dr Charles Brash — I ask the Minister to act . it be a genuine pleasure to follow the hon . member for Hartlepool ( Mr Brash ) , who have hit the nail on the head when it come to how terrible this disease be . forty year ago this August , my paternal grandfather be die of lung cancer . my father go to the hospital with he . the day go on and on , and eventually , my grandfather say to my father , " go and give your mother a call — let she know where we be at . " she answer the phone , and my dad say , " just to let you know , mum , we ' re delay at the hospital . Dad and I be go to be late . " she say , " oh , I ' ve not see your father in three week . " at that point , he say , his blood run cold . tragically , my grandfather die just two week later . the funeral come , and the funeral go . my grandmother constantly ask , " where have all these flower come from ? " within four year , my grandmother have to go into a nursing home . make the right decision during those four year put a huge strain on my father . " do we sell the house ? how be we go to pay for the care ? " my grandmother be walk the street at 3 am . she be leave the gas on . neighbour be say , " the whole street be go to be destroy . derek , you have get to do something . " then she be put into the home . what I have find during my work on dementia be that that be often the pattern . the spouse , or the partner , protect his or her spouse or partner . they pick up the slack — and this be such a ratchet disease , which come so slowly , that they do not realise that they be under more and more pressure and take on more and more work . tragically again , in 2019 , my father - in - law die suddenly , and it soon become apparent that he have be hide my mother - in - law ' s dementia . my mother - in - law be do very well : she have a carer , and on some day she be still pretty sparky . she be a formidable woman in her time . she be 87 year old now . she still remember I , and there be an important point there : I will be the person she forget next , because I be the last in . I say to my wife , " for as long as she remember I , we be still in a roughly good place . " that be quite a sad statement , be it not ? it be sad that we be move down that road . however , I be inspire by something I see shortly after I be elect , in 2010 or 2011 , at a dementia caf é down in Rothwell . I go there when it first open , and I quickly become aware of the support that it be give people , and of how much they appreciate it . that bring I back to what the hon . member for Hartlepool say about how cruel this disease be . because people be gradually support their love one more and more , they reach a point at which there be enormous pressure . they be not go to take a step back , go on to Google or try to get on to the local Facebook to try and work out what be go on locally . People do not know what be go on out there , and that be even more true 10 or so year ago . a huge number of voluntary organisation take client . let I name just two in my constituency : Wetherby in Support of the elderly — WISE — and the Easingwold Hub Club . they provide a huge amount of support for people with dementia , but dozen of other voluntary organisation supply an incredible service that help to take the pressure off carer , who be also able to take their love one out , which in itself can be stimulate . that give I an idea , and I create the Dementia Directory and one of the first dementia - friendly constituency . the directory break up the constituency up into part , and list all the event that be go on . we be work on the new one now . it be a complex process ; it be a bit of a spider ' s web , because we find one event and then another be off , and then another be off . we try not to miss any , but inevitably we do . it be because the last directory have such a huge and positive impact that we be prepare this one for the new constituency , follow the boundary change . all that we need now be the sponsorship that will enable it to be print and post . it will make a difference , because , as the hon . member for Hartlepool say , this be a terribly cruel disease . there be a statement that upset and annoy I greatly : " it be not such a bad disease , because the person who have it do not know they have it . " that be an awful thing to say . I can never hold back a tear when I see the advertisement in which a chap sit on the end of the bed say to his wife , " I want to go home . " how many of we , as child , become homesick ? I be homesick when I go to university . it be a terrifying thought that as you get old you will not know your partner , and you will be constantly homesick . for member who may not know this , I have a tip , because I have do dementia training . when I go to a care home , there be an elderly lady of about 90 , who say , " I don ' t like it here . they never let I see my parent . I just wish they ' d let I see my father . " I have be tell to get into a memory of the person and mention somewhere their relative may be , so I say , " well , your father ' s down at the allotment . " she say , " oh , yes , that ' s right , " and she calm down . do not argue with those people , because that will just make they more upset , but try to take they back to a memory . as well the directory be use to notice event , it highlight thing that may help , such as hydration . one of the thing that happen with elderly people be that they do not want to keep go to the toilet and they get worried about do so , so they be often quite sparky in the morning when they have have a cup of tea , but by 3 o ' clock they be get memory lapse because they have not drunk enough . that be also something we have to tell people . how many member in this Chamber , when they say they be go to speak in this debate — they do not have to put their hand up — have somebody say , " oh , don ' t forget to go there " ? everybody seem to know what dementia be , but nobody really know what it be . it be a real paradox . everybody make that comment , " Don ' t forget , " but do they really understand the depth and impact of this disease ? Dementia include Alzheimer ' s disease . I recently read a book about Ronald Reagan , which at the end say that he do not open his eye for the last four year of his life . just think about that , and what this terrible disease do to people and all the impact it have . this debate be about dementia care , and several contribution have be make about thing the Government can do . I raise this issue back in 2012 - 13 , and the then Prime Minister , David Cameron , do put funding into research for dementia . the trouble be that we have learn how to preserve all the organ of our body with medical research and medical advance , but we have never bother with the brain . the blunt truth be that , before this disease have the prevalence it now have , most people be dead before they get it . however , there be something we can do all do as member of Parliament in our constituency , and that be to draw together all the voluntary organisation that give such relief to family and help to stimulate the sufferer along the way . my right hon . friend be make a characteristically powerful and informed speech . he mention the importance of the role of volunteer , which I think the whole House will recognise . do he , however , share my concern that , with an age population , we seem to be see a small cohort of people prepare to step up to volunteer ? across the Government and across this place , a noble endeavour to embark upon would be to champion and encourage more people to get involve with volunteer outside the usual catchment or cohort , because otherwise , in the not - too - distant future , these vital organisation will be so short of volunteer that they will not be able to do the job they need to do . I be most grateful to my hon . friend , who do indeed make an important comment . my constituency of Wetherby and Easingwold have an old demographic , and that will become more acute over time . he be right to say that there be a dedicated band of volunteer , but most of the people who do the voluntary work during daytime be of an age to be retire . there be people who I think do an incredible job in support people — they really do — and they deserve nothing but our gratitude and thank . as I have say , there be something positive that we really can do as member of Parliament , so I urge everyone when they be back in their constituency to look at what go on and see what they can do to promote it . I promise they that it will make a transformational difference not just to the life of the people affect , but to their life as Members of Parliament in do what they can do for their local community , which be why we be all here in the first place . rise — order . over 20 member wish to speak , so there will be a speak limit of six minute . I thank the hon . member for South Devon ( Caroline Voaden ) for secure this most important of debate . dementia care be a subject incredibly close to my heart and that of many of my Amber Valley constituent who write to I . any hon . member who be present when I make my maiden speech may recall my speaking about my dad , David Farnsworth . once an extremely talkative man , sadly , like that of so many other , dementia have take his voice . with that in mind , it be incumbent on I and other hon . member to use our voice in this place to advocate for much - need improvement to dementia care . that must start with increase diagnosis . Alzheimer ' s UK be rightly call on the Government to improve dementia diagnosis rate and set ambitious target for the future . nhs statistic show that diagnosis rate , as of July 2024 , be 65 % , so a third of people live with dementia across the UK still do not have a diagnosis , mean they be miss out on the vital care support and symptomatic treatment it can bring . the picture be particularly bad for the 70 , 800 people in the UK who be estimate to have young - onset dementia , where symptom develop before the age of 65 . get a diagnosis can take twice as long as for old people . my father - in - law , Michael Spare , be diagnose with dementia at the age of 64 . my mother - in - law , Yvonne , recall how hard it be to get a diagnosis and to be take seriously , despite they both know that there be a problem . Dementia UK advocate for the Government to mandate every integrate care system to develop a young - onset dementia pathway to include provide timely and accurate diagnosis . I wholeheartedly support that . when my dad be diagnose with dementia in 2018 , my family and I be frightened . at the time I have a colleague , Sue , who have go through this with her mother . she be kind enough to give I some advice : try not to focus on what you have lose ; celebrate what you can still share and enjoy together . I remember that advice recently when my step - mum , Kate , start the engine of my dad ' s beloved classic car . his face light up at the sound . somewhere deep inside , he remember the joy that restore his Triumph Spitfire bring he over many year . not everyone will have someone like Sue to talk to and live with dementia can be very lonely . for those people , admiral nurse , employ by Dementia UK , can be a godsend . they provide an invaluable service to family confront or navigate the reality of live with dementia . I recently have the pleasure of meet Kath Hunt , who work at the Ripley branch of Nationwide building society . nationwide have be partner Dementia UK to offer free appointment with admiral nurse in high street branch across the country , include in Ripley . sadly , there be far too few admiral nurse and , while I be thankful that the scheme exist , it should not fall to partnership like this for family to get support . Dementia UK recommend that Admiral or specialist nurse should be core member of multidisciplinary neighbourhood health centre to provide vital care in the community . I wholeheartedly support that recommendation . admiral and specialist dementia nurse can also be hospital - base , but they be few and far between . when my dad be hospitalise for an infection unrelated to his dementia , he be put on a general ward . he be so ill , we think he would never get out of bed . several week into his hospitalisation , I see a nurse perform what seem a miracle . he be able to get my dad to engage and even get he to stand up . amazed , I ask how this could be . he explain that he usually work on the dementia ward . it be his expert skill and knowledge rather than a miracle that make the difference , but the nurse be certainly an angel in my eye . Dementia UK be demand that the Government commit ringfence funding for a dementia specialist nurse service within each NHS acute trust , and Age UK be call for urgent improvement to staff training in hospital to ensure people with dementia have their need fully meet . I support both measure . my dad be now at home and be look after by my step - mum Kate and my brother Bradd Farnsworth , support by visit carer . I recently ask whether they have have specialist training for care for people with dementia . they have not , but say they would find it useful . they be not alone . despite people live with dementia make up 70 % of resident of old age residential care and 60 % of people draw on care at home , around 29 % of social care staff have no record of dementia training . I be call for mandatory training for social care staff , in line with the dementia training standard framework , which be absolutely essential , and I will continue to campaign for that . with the 10 - year health plan for England due , this be a key moment . it be vital that improve dementia care be include in the NHS reform , and I implore the Government not to pass up the opportunity to fix dementia care at long last . I thank my hon . friend the Member for South Devon ( Caroline Voaden ) for bring this important debate to this Chamber . Dementia be one of the most urgent public health crisis we face , and one that profoundly affect so many of my constituent ; accord to Alzheimer ' s Research UK , 1 , 800 people be live with dementia in our area . the current package of care for those live with dementia be simply not good enough . far too many of my constituent speak of delay diagnosis , exhausted kinship carer and gap in social care provision . last year , I join the brilliant Warwickshire Reminiscence Action Project in Stratford - upon - Avon to hear directly from people in my community live with dementia and their carer . their story be heartbreaking and move , much like those we have hear in the Chamber today . there be many dementia caf é s and social group around my constituency , which provide information , much - need support , and memory and sensory activity . we must support care worker , include by equip they with specialist training , and kinship carer , who give everything , often with little recognition or support . improve the availability of respite care be one step forward . I have to say that I be deeply disappointed that the Government have drop their target of diagnose two third of those live with dementia . early and timely diagnosis be absolutely crucial for individual and their family . as my hon . friend the Member for South Devon say , we need a proper workforce plan for social care , and to ensure that every person live with dementia receive timely , high - quality care , while make sure their carer be properly support , too . that can be achieve only with early diagnosis . we also know that dementia be an intersectional issue , with those from disadvantaged background disproportionately affect . fall diagnosis target and long delay for appropriate care will fall hard on those who can not afford to go private . Dementia be also a rural issue ; in community such as mine , the risk of isolation for dementia patient be even great , as be the need for strong local support . family impact by dementia often have to wait far too long to get the good support . make no mistake : this be not just about compassion . Dementia already cost the UK economy £ 42 billion a year , a figure that be project to more than double by 2040 if we do not act . in conclusion , I ask that we do not row back on care commitment , and that we have a dementia care plan that ease pressure on our acute setting while give patient and their family the support they need when they need it . I thank the hon . member for South Devon ( Caroline Voaden ) for bring this important debate to the House this afternoon . I also thank other member for share such personal testimony ; as well as bring broad context , it really add value to what this House bring to our national conversation . as a public health consultant , it would be remiss of I not to spend a couple of minute talk about how to reduce the risk of dementia before get on to dementia care , as only about a third of UK adult think it be actually possible to reduce their risk of dementia . I be sure these recommendation will all be familiar to everybody listen . as healthcare professional and as politician , we should encourage people of all age and stage of life , and in particular middle - aged adult , to be more physically active , eat healthily and maintain a healthy weight , drink less alcohol , stop smoking — very apt at the moment — and be socially active . many member have speak today about be socially active , and socially isolate old adult be nearly twice as likely to develop dementia within 15 year . further recommendation include control diabete and high blood pressure . if that sound familiar , it be because we talk about that in the cardiovascular realm , too . we should be communicate loudly that what be good for the heart be good for reduce the risk of dementia . let I move on to dementia care . I want to talk a little bit about what we be do in Worthing West , which relate to a lot of what have be say already , and then I shall conclude with the national picture . in worthe West we have 2 , 361 people currently live with the condition . the charity Guild Care be a not - for - profit care service for old people , people with dementia , and child and adult with learn difficulty . it provide care for 120 people with dementia in their own home and for a further 100 in its respite service . it be great that we have hear so much about respite service in this debate today . it be so important to help people with dementia access support , care and activity that provide a healthy way of living . People visit dementia day service experience strong social tie , have well mental health , require few gp visit , use less medication , sleep well — something that we all need to do — and have more active engaged mind . we also know that respite be vital because behind each diagnosis , as we have hear today , often stand an unpaid carer whose career and life be put on hold while their own health quietly deteriorate , as stress , sleep loss and isolation take their toll . inevitably , in that situation , we see dementia rate rise . recognise and invest in the value of respite have huge benefit . we have also hear about some innovative community care hub across the country . Guild Care in worthe West be develop its own community hub to combat social isolation . it provide integrate dementia care , diagnosis , support and a rich programme of activity that keep people healthy and live at home . that be an aspiration that we want for all of we — to live well and to stay at home for as long as possible . our role in Government be to ensure a more co - ordinate system , build on good practice model , such as those that we have hear about today , include that of Guild Care in worthe West . we have also touch on training . Guild Care deliver in - house specialist dementia training to its staff in a bespoke programme that it develop with colleague in the Bromley dementia hub — so I give a shout - out for Bromley there . good research - base staff training be essential to help care professional to deliver compassionate , person - centre support , as so many hon . member have say today . it be the bedrock of quality care . my hon . friend mention person - centre care in dementia . do she agree that initiative such as playlist for Life in my constituency , which use meaningful music to reconnect people with dementia to their memory and their identity , should be more widely support across the NHS ? what an outstanding service that sound . I know there be a creative mental health all - party parliamentary group take place today . we underestimate the benefit of exposure to the creative art for all of we , specifically for those with dementia . my hon . friend be absolutely right and I thank he for raise that . clearly , training be essential , as be the creative art . to conclude , I wish to talk about what this all mean nationally , and specifically about the implementation of a national social care service , which I know the Minister be very well aware of . I acknowledge that the Casey Commission be a vital step towards implement that service . the Darzi report and our recent work in the Health and Social Care Committee , some member of whom be here this afternoon , underline what we all know , which be that we can not fix the NHS without fix the break social care system . the two be fundamentally interconnect ; we must not look at health and social care issue in isolation , and that include dementia . we must ensure that strategic plan build well integration and recognise that investment in social care be essential . it be essential to improve people ' s life . move from treatment to prevention of illness be pivotal to the NHS 10 - year strategy and to reduce the spiral cost to the NHS of an age population . let I conclude now with this idea of change the narrative . this have be touch on this afternoon . sometimes we think about dementia as an illness that have no hope . one Member have already say that 50 % of we may well develop dementia in our lifetime . one way or another , the illness have touch pretty much everyone in this Chamber . Care Talk recently publish a comprehensive report on dementia , which be well worth reading . I would like to urge everyone to take up this new narrative on dementia . the traditional narrative surround dementia focus on decline and inevitability , but , as I have already mention , around 40 % of dementia case might be attributable to risk factor that can be modify . a 20 % reduction in the risk factor per decade could reduce UK prevalence by 16 % — even by this year . I be advocate for policy that help people live well and protect they from illness include dementia , and for service that help people to live well with dementia , by emphasise their strength , which many personal testimony have already touch on . we must also be support people and their family to well navigate the condition and contribute to their community and our society . Dementia be heartbreaking . with over 944 , 000 people in the UK suffer from this illness , we need to support family and sufferer in a more holistic manner . health in Wales be devolve — as it be in Scotland — to the Senedd . however , as dementia affect so many of my constituent , I want to highlight the work that be be do in my constituency to support carer and their love one during this difficult period in their life . the trajectory for dementia be upwards , with 1 . 6 million adult expect to suffer from the illness by 2050 . some 70 , 000 of those will be under the age of 65 , so although it be know as an old person ' s disease , it be not exclusively so . lewy body dementia , which affect a very close friend of mine , be think to account for 15 % to 20 % of case of dementia , and it can be difficult to diagnose because the symptom be so similar to Parkinson ' s or Alzheimer ' s disease . the symptom for Lewy body dementia can include hallucination , loss of sleep , movement problem , change in alertness and attention , and most of all confusion . I think of how afraid they must feel when they know that something be wrong but they can not articulate their feeling and do not know what to do or where to go for help , and the same can be say for their carer , family and love one . their world be turn upside down . first they have to navigate a diagnosis , and then they have to obtain the help that be there , but how do they find that help ? where be it and who be there to point they in the right direction ? in Caerfyrddin we have dementia group and memory clinic , all run by volunteer who have walk this journey with their love one — people who understand and care . the Cathen Dementia Group be one such safe space . it run every Thursday from Llangathen Hall between 2 pm and 4 pm and serve the wide Llandeilo area and all rural village around it . when I pop in for a visit in January , they say that they want a way to reach more people who be live with dementia , such as people who live rurally and do not drive car and people who do not have the support network that other have on their doorstep . work with Dolen Teifi , a third sector volunteer transport provider , we be prepare to have transport in place for the autumn term . work with the Carmarthenshire Association of Voluntary Services , we will secure funding for not only this but other incidental that they need in order to operate . work collaboratively , we can achieve the help that these group need . the group provide safe space for sufferer of dementia , support for the carer , and the chance to have a cuppa and a chat . the group provide a bit of normality for a couple of hour a week . if anybody can help and support these group , please do . they be a lifeline within my rural constituency , where if people do not drive then they just do not go anywhere or meet anyone . I want to thank Dolen Teifi and the Carmarthenshire Association of Voluntary Services , but I want to give my big thank to the team of volunteer and carer who run group such as Cathen Dementia Group . it be a huge honour and privilege to follow the hon . member for Caerfyrddin ( Ann Davies ) and the many other who have share personal family story as well as story about what be happen in their constituency . I truly welcome this debate and thank the hon . member for South Devon ( Caroline Voaden ) for secure it . dementia care be important to many of we in this House and to the community we represent . I would like to start by put on record my thank to local dementia support team and the family and volunteer involve for their work in my constituency . it seem fitting that we be discuss this matter during volunteer ' week , have hear many important contribution , particularly the remark make by the right hon . member for Wetherby and Easingwold ( Sir Alec Shelbrooke ) , about how we can all play a personal role and encourage more volunteer in this space . I want to put on record a particular shout - out to a volunteer in my constituency , Heather Hooper , a dementia friend ambassador who have do so much to help I in my journey of learn on this issue . indeed , I thank all the volunteer in this space for their help and outreach work , include for help I as a new constituency Member of Parliament , along with my team , to learn and understand not just what need to change in the care system , but how we can support family and people with dementia when deal with the casework request that sadly come forward so often because of challenge in this area . as many in this House will know , dementia be the lead cause of death in the UK , and one in two of we will be affect by this complex condition in our lifetime . the individual story I have hear from local family and carer be so move — perhaps some of the most moving casework I have receive since be elect — and it be heartbreaking to hear about the lack of accessible care and support still face by too many people . the fact and figure , beyond the human toll of the story that we have hear , be stark . Dementia UK ' s recent survey result be a hard read . three quarter of respondent say that they do not receive the right care to meet their need through the NHS , and 76 % say that hospital care do not meet the specific need of people with dementia . we can not , and should not , accept that . I be hopeful that in Peterborough we can make a positive change . in my constituency , there have be a recent debate about the future of our Dementia Resource Centre — a unique partnership between family , care worker and the city council , and one of just two in the country that follow such a model . the centre be , in effect , a one - stop centre for dementia sufferer and their family in the city . it offer vital service in the community that enable people to be diagnose with dementia fast . it work in collaboration with GPs and the local authority , as well as with other bit of the health service — we have hear about how important that be — to give people with dementia and their love one the care and support they need . it also work to simplify the system so that it be base around their need , rather than there be an expectation on too many people to navigate an already complex system , give the pressure that they may be experience . I thank the Alzheimer ' s Society for its dedication and work alongside the council and other healthcare professional . with dementia rate only set to increase , centre of excellence like the one in Peterborough need to be promote across the country , and we have hear about so many good example already . that be why we have fight so hard to keep the centre open in our city . the story of our dementia centre in Peterborough will be familiar , with so many of its service involve local government . the accumulation of financial pressure on the council mean that the authority be rationalise the estate . we have recently be through the traumatic experience of find out whether the Dementia Resource Centre would continue to exist and where it would be move to , but I be pleased to say that it be now safe . thank to campaigner , family and the incredible work of Councillor Dr Shabina Qayyum — our council ' s cabinet member for adult social care , who other hon . friend will know — we have save the centre and find a new home for it at Paston Farm community centre . that mean not only that have we save the centre ; we have also create a bespoke area in which the council will continue to invest . it will provide a dedicated space for socialise , so that family and carer have something that be in their life every day , alongside the professional medical care and healthcare that they need . my hon . friend be give an incredibly powerful and trademark passionate speech . when he talk about the support that family need , will he also recognise the support that young people and particularly young carer need ? to experience a love one suffer from dementia must be incredibly challenging for young people as well . my hon . friend have answer his own question , give the passion with which he have tell that story ; the role of young carer be a story to which the House must bear witness . I know that my hon . friend the Minister for Care be passionate about ensure that those who care for love one face health condition get the recognition and support they need , so I thank my hon . friend the Member for Harlow ( Chris Vince ) for his question as well as the Minister , in recognition of the role he play in this issue . the hon . Gentleman ' s story of his save his local centre ring a bell with I . the Hunter Centre in Haslemere , which have be run by the Alzheimer ' s Society , look like it be go to close in 2017 , but because of some great work by Anne Downing , it be save and be now thrive — in fact , I be a patron — so I be sure that this can be do not just in the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency and in mine , but across the country . I thank the hon . gentleman for give we such a wonderful practical example . I would correct he only by say that it be not I that save our centre ; it be the campaigner and their family . I would like to ensure that the record represent that it be their work that save it , rather than I as an individual MP , although I be glad to play my small role alongside their great effort to hold I to account . fundamentally , care belong in the community . it be our duty to promote and support such initiative as I have talk about , and to ensure that the wonderful creation that be the NHS be centre on community - base care , not on top - down - base care . it be our duty to promote this and I sincerely hope that this type of provision , alongside the additional service that hon . member have speak so passionately about today , will be the hallmark of what come next and will feature prominently in the 10 - year plan and in the remark that the Minister will shortly make . Dementia be a uniquely tragic disease because it be , after all , an attack on the mind and on one ' s memory . it be a terminal malady for which there be currently no cure and which affect almost every family in the country . my constituent , Timothy , say this of his family ' s experience with the disease : " my wife , to whom I be marry for 65 year , slip into dementia about three year ago . when dementia strike , it come slowly . we do not know what be happen , and though our child be very supportive , they could not know why one parent have dementia and the other didn ' t . household management get bad , make each day a strain . my wife have be a superb cook , but I be a poor substitute . our child try to help , but they have their own life to live . " in my constituency of Tiverton and Minehead , it be estimate we have 1 , 877 people live with dementia — a figure that far exceed the national average — and yet in my constituency and in rural area around the country , the paucity of care provision couple with significant transport challenge mean that the impact of dementia be feel even more acutely . the lack of access to dementia care only exacerbate feeling of abandonment and isolation . it be no secret that we be an age society . projection from the national health service indicate that we be on course to have over 1 million people live with dementia by 2030 , and as many as 1 . 6 million by the mid - point of this century . this significant demographic shift underscore the need to expand and strengthen the workforce in the care sector through upskille , training and retention strategy . I speak with particular thrust as the Member of Parliament for an overwhelmingly rural area . I be all too aware of the recruitment and retention woe in remote community where geographical isolation and resource constraint make thing additionally challenge . several member of my party have make the point about social care and I know that my party leader make it on a weekly basis at Prime Minister ' s question , so I will not revisit the need for social care as it run alongside the NHS . however , we must support our carer . increase pay for carer be not merely a matter of fairness ; it be an investment in a future where well care will inevitably lead to well outcome for those with dementia . after all , a rise tide lift all boat . accord to the UK Dementia Research Institute , 85 % of people with dementia wish to remain in their own home , so it be about time that unpaid carer — those silent hero — be afford the right to carer ' s leave and a statutory guarantee of regular respite break . unlike other speaker , I have not talk about my family ' s experience with dementia until the end of my speech because , quite frankly , I think I would cry . my three brother and I be lucky enough to be bring up by an intellectual colossus : my mother , M — Cambridge educate , a City solicitor , and a wonderful mother and grandmother . fortunately , my family be able financially to look after she , and I be endlessly grateful to my brother and sister - in - law for look after she as well as they do , and to her carer , Nicolette , who come from Romania and who have literally change her life . somebody early say that it be important not to look at the sad side of thing , but to look at the good side . I ring my mother — mummy — last Sunday . we be laugh so much that I nearly have to put the phone down . she might not be able to remember everything , but she still have a sense of humour , she still have a good appetite , and she always enjoy a wee glass of sherry . she will be here with I next Wednesday for parliamentary question . Mummy , I can ' t wait to see you . I love you . I thank the hon . member for South Devon ( Caroline Voaden ) for secure this important debate . as member across the House have rightly highlight , dementia remain one of the most urgent health and social care challenge face our country . one in two of we will be affect by it in our lifetime , whether through our own diagnosis , care for a love one or both . over 14 , 200 people in the Black Country live with dementia , include over 3 , 000 in city of Wolverhampton . that number be expect to more than double over the next 10 year . as lack of early diagnosis be an issue and prevent proper dementia care , and consider the prevalence of dementia in our community , I be pleased that 67 % of people with dementia in Wolverhampton have be formally diagnose as have the condition , compare to 62 % nationally and 59 % across the west midland . these be more than just statistic ; each number represent the individual , family and community live with the daily reality of this cruel condition . the total annual cost of dementia in England reach £ 42 billion in 2024 , and that be set to double in the next 15 year . More than half the cost be shoulder by unpaid carer — the family member and friend who often go without support , recognition or respite . I welcome the Government ' s recent increase in the carer ' s allowance earning threshold , which will enable more carer to remain in work while continue to receive the support they rely on . that be certainly a step in the right direction , but if we be serious about improve dementia care , we must start with the chronic underfunding of our social care system , which be fragment , overstretch and under - resource . we can not rely on good will alone , so I urge the Government to commit to sustainable , long - term funding for our social care sector — for the worker , for community - base service and for specialist dementia provision . I be proud that the city of Wolverhampton , which be within my constituency of Wolverhampton West , have be recognise as a dementia - friendly community by the Alzheimer ' s Society , with over 13 , 000 dementia friend across the city . I particularly commend the work of Alz Caf é in my constituency , which be an independent , volunteer - lead service provide a warm , welcome space for people live with dementia and their family . with live music , hot meal and compassionate support , it be a lifeline for many , and it be run entirely free of charge . community - lead initiative be vital , but we can not allow they to become a substitute for a robust national care infrastructure in our NHS and our country . volunteer and charity play an incredible role , but they can not carry the burden alone . dementia care should therefore be include in the NHS 10 - year health plan , as advocate by Dementia UK , with more specialist dementia nurse in our hospital and in the community to deliver timely , person - centre care , which can save on cost by reduce hospital stay . it be beyond time for we to have a properly fund , co - ordinate national approach to social care that ensure that everyone affect by dementia can access the crucial care and support that they so need . it be important that we have timely diagnosis of dementia , particularly give that young - onset dementia be become common , and age - appropriate support . Dementia care be vital for the future health of we all . my constituent Sil é ' s husband develop early onset dementia at the age of 38 . nobody know what it be initially , because they be not expect a normal , healthy 38 - year - old to have early - onset dementia . do the hon . Member agree that we need to do much more right across the UK to highlight that dementia and Alzheimer ' s can develop at any age ? the hon . Lady be absolutely right : we need to take urgent action , and early . there be now case of people have get dementia even as early as the age of 50 without know that they have the condition because there be no diagnosis , so I agree with the hon . Lady . everyone deserve high - quality care when they need it — that be particularly the case for those with dementia , who often have some of the most complex need — but the sad reality be that social care service in this country be in crisis . the disease have a huge impact not only on the patient , but on their family and friend as they struggle to care for they . Richard write to I about his experience of be a full - time carer for his wife of 55 year . she have ataxia , compound by dementia . she be lose her ability to walk or talk , write or use the phone , or follow simple instruction , and Richard have to be with her 24 / 7 to ensure her safety . the daily routine start with get his wife out of bed ; transport she to the bathroom ; help she with the toilet ; get she into the shower and then get in the shower to shower she ; help she clean her tooth ; get she back to the bedroom to dry her hair and dress she ; take she downstair via their self - fund stairlift ; get she into a wheelchair to transport she to the dining table for breakfast ; and then take she back to the lounge . she may sleep for a little bit , but soon or later there will be a call for help to go to the toilet , so it be back into the wheelchair , back on the stairlift and back on the toilet . Richard will clean and dress she , and then she will go back on the stairlift , back into the wheelchair and back into the lounge , where the whole palaver will repeat after five minute , as she have forget that she have already be to the toilet and can not be convince otherwise . that be just one small part of a day , and it sound relentless . owe to a recent back injury , Richard have have to employ a carer for two morning a week to help . he want to care for his wife as long as he can , but one day he may have to move she to a nursing home , and that worry he . he reckon it will cost approximately £ 1 , 800 per week and rise due to the increase in national insurance , and he be now worried that in pander to populism on immigration , the Government may make it even hard to recruit carer . he say : " once again , it be the least fortunate and needy of we who will bear the cost . " another constituent write : " when my wife be first diagnose with Alzheimer ' s in 2019 , we be give a couple of booklet and tell to prepare for the inevitable . " he go on to explain that for a couple of year , include during the covid lockdown , they see no one apart from the occasional surgery visit , until a crisis in 2023 lead to the community mental health team be involve . for a while , his wife get a fair amount of support , but when the mental health team deem she stabilise , that support be withdraw , lead to another crisis in January 2024 . he be very worried that the whole cycle will play out again and again . my hon . friend remind I of a conversation that I have with William , a constituent from High Ham who have be care for his wife , who have have Alzheimer ' s for many year . he have rely on the intensive dementia support team in Yeovil , but the service have recently be reorganise . as a result , it have become quite fragmented across Somerset and there be no central contact or clear structure . there be incomplete record , leave some carer adrift . do my hon . friend agree that streamline dementia care service be vital to ensure clarity and co - ordination for carer ? absolutely . it be a very frightening situation for people to find themselves in . for carer who have to do all that I have describe Richard have to do , have to battle their way to find the service available just add to the problem . my constituent say that mental health service be the Cinderella of the NHS . there be a lack of staff and resource , and such service need more financial support so that they do not abandon people the minute they think they can get away with it . a number of member have highlight the importance of voluntary initiative , and I would like to take this opportunity to thank all those in my constituency , include Time 4 carer , the memory caf é s in Yate and Thornbury , and the Charfield memory group . however , voluntary initiative be not enough to provide the support that dementia patient and their carer need . the cross - party commission on social care be welcome , but unpaid carer such as my constituent can not wait three year — they need a fair deal now . that mean respite break , so that they do not get to breaking point and can carry on care for their love one , as they want to . it mean ongoing support from health service , regular check - in and not be abandon when the immediate crisis be over , and it mean have the confidence that when they do need to turn to pay carer , those carer will be available , they will have dementia training , and cost will not be a barrier to use they . rise — Order . I be now ask member to speak for no long than five minute . I thank the hon . member for South Devon ( Caroline Voaden ) for bring this really important debate to the House . I be speak today on behalf of the 1 , 422 people in Leigh and Atherton live with dementia . that be above the national average ; my constituency rank 281 out of 650 . I want to speak about the incredible work be do in our community to support these individual . sadly , due to year of neglect and underfunding , there be no integrated dementia care pathway , and try to navigate fragmented and complex health and social care system can cause family to fall between the gap and reach crisis point . Dementia be place a monumental pressure on our health and social care system , but it be all too often an afterthought . this cruel condition be have a terrible impact on so many family , and that be clear when speak to my constituent , who share with I heartbreake story of their struggle to access the support they need . that be why improve dementia care in the community be essential . it can offer improved outcome not only for those with dementia but in the wide health and social care system , as we have hear today . at a local level , we be fortunate to have brilliant organisation that go above and beyond , offer care , comfort and invaluable support . I pay tribute to my remarkable constituent , Mark Aldred , whose passion for dementia cause be nothing short of inspire . when he be mayor , his charity appeal partner with the local Alzheimer ' s Society and raise an outstanding £ 30 , 000 — a true testament to his unwavering commitment to make a real difference . together with his wife Karen , Mark found the Good Deeds Trust , a heartfelt initiative bear from their deep connection with the people of our borough . their family - run charity offer essential advice and support to those navigate the challenge of dementia . we be also privileged to have specialist dementia nurse Bridget Lawler and Caroline Clifton at Belong , a care home base in the heart of Atherton . I pay tribute to they . their dedication to support patient have earn they national recognition , as they have be shortlist for the admiral nurse award at the Dementia Care award . they offer invaluable advice , help arrange assessment with healthcare professional and provide essential guidance on secure financial support . I could not be prouder of the staff at Belong Atherton . to see their hard work and kindness recognise at national level be truly inspirational , but they be not alone . we have a pub in Tyldesley call the Union Arms that have be hold dementia meet - up for the last 10 year . it have become a safe space for people live with the condition to spend time in good company . the group , know as the Forgotten Regulars , have create a fantastic support network , brighten the life of those affect by dementia , include their family . despite the incredible work the pub be do , it face the challenge of rise cost as it try to keep the dementia club run . as a dementia research champion , I proudly stand with Dementia UK and other organisation advocate for well support for community initiative , great investment in research and treatment and early diagnosis to transform the future of dementia in my constituency and the rest of the UK . ultimately , ensure we have a health service fit for the future mean improve community and primary dementia support . that start with championing and nurture the incredible work be do in our community that be make a difference and support those who need it most . I be incredibly grateful to my hon . friend the Member for South Devon ( Caroline Voaden ) for secure this important debate . dementia care be in crisis . one in six hospital bed be currently occupy by someone with dementia , and by 2040 it be estimate that the figure will be one in four hospital bed . we need the Government to take bold , radical action to introduce a system that provide the good possible support for people with dementia and their family — support that be easily accessible every step of the way . I have hear from many carer in my constituency who be stretch to their limit , and add to that pressure be the constant uncertainty over support . People with dementia often fall through the gap in the health and social care service , as many assessment be not design for people with dementia . that be why I support Dementia UK ' s call for the Government urgently to review the NHS continue healthcare process . will the Minister confirm whether the Government be consider a specific focus on how cognitive and behavioural need be assess , and say whether dementia specialist will be involve in the continue healthcare assessment process ? support for carer be also incredibly important . in May 2024 , Hampshire county council change a local support service , after 12 year and with very little notice . one of my constituent describe how the previous provider , the charity Andover Mind , have be a lifeline for he and his wife who be diagnose with early - onset dementia . the charity offer care advice , legal guidance and host social event that help to build supportive network at an incredibly difficult time . my constituent feel that the new service be focus on short - term emergency response rather than comprehensive support . at present , the care system rely heavily on unpaid carer , who be usually family member , and people with dementia often rely on a combination of unpaid and formal social care . two third of unpaid carer be woman , and a third provide more than 100 hour of care a week . this be a full - time job with no pay , little rest , and far too little recognition . as my constituent Julia say , " post diagnosis , there be just very little help " . while care for her husband , she find that she have to do her own research and reading to get he the care he need . she be concern , however , that her husband be well off than many other who do not have family advocate on their behalf . clearly , there be a grow need for a minimum standard of good quality , post - diagnosis support for people with dementia and their carer . I urge the Government to commit to provide guidance and ringfence funding to ensure that there be a specialist dementia nurse service in every NHS acute trust . I support the demand for a bold , new diagnosis target , urgent action to reduce waiting list , and improve dementia diagnosis datum collection and publication to drive great accountability . there be also a discussion to be have about dementia - specific training for care worker . last year in England , only 45 % of care worker receive dementia - specific training , which highlight the scale of the problem . will the Government implement the Alzheimer ' s Society ' s recommendation that dementia training should be mandatory across the adult social care workforce ? I have speak in this Chamber on previous occasion about the impact of dementia and Alzheimer ' s on my own family , and how after a love one be diagnose with this terrible disease , we lose they twice . with our rapidly age population , it be critical that more support be give to family cope with dementia , so they do not have to jump through hoop to get support , and so that those live with dementia and Alzheimer ' s be treat with the specialist care and dignity they deserve . I thank the hon . member for South Devon ( Caroline Voaden ) for secure this debate . care for a relative with dementia be one of the most tremendously difficult thing that many people will ever have to do . I pay tribute to the many people in my constituency who be care for a relative with dementia ; it be incredibly challenging . over time I have speak to many people on the doorstep whose relative be suffer from dementia , and who be find thing very difficult . when I read a dementia care plan , I see that 51 % of carer provide unpaid care in my constituency be provide more than 100 hour a week . that be the most phenomenal commitment , and I thank ever so much all those who be do that . I have hear the Minister speak extremely movingly about his family ' s experience and I know that he be very committed to improve dementia care in this country . however , it be shocking that at present only about 67 % of people with dementia in my constituency will actually receive a diagnosis . I recently speak to a resident whose mother have be in a care home with advanced dementia for three year , but be still undiagnosed . as long as we do not have a full set of diagnosis , we can not properly explore good healthcare outcome for people , what proportionate spend would look like and how we can improve the system generally . a huge amount of unpaid care be provide by woman — although , of course , there be people of all gender provide it and I salute everyone who do so — which be one reason why the gender pay gap double when woman be in their 40 . work by the Women ' s Budget Group have show that as well as improve the wellbeing of those provide that care , investment in the care sector could create 2 . 7 time as many job as the same amount of investment in construction . I do not think that we should be provide well care just because there be a good economic basis for do so — we should be do it because it be the right thing to do — but it be important to note that there would be huge economic benefit . I welcome the Government ' s launch of an independent commission into adult social care as the first step towards create a national care service . in Cheshire East , there have be inconsistent funding of admiral nurse , which have lead to inconsistent support . I have be impress by the care provide by local hospice ; although traditionally associate with cancer care , they be now often involve in dementia care . I would like we to provide more funding for hospice care as soon as we be able to do so . the service that people receive be hugely important to they , whether they be deliver in the community or in care home . a dentist in my constituency have tell I that due to an issue with insurance , many dentist be no long cover to provide service in care home , which be a huge loss as those people deserve dental care . the Alzheimer ' s Society have call for dementia training for pay carer , and I agree that we should be move to do that at pace . I want to thank not just the unpaid carer , but the volunteer in my constituency who be do the most incredible work . in Congleton , we have the Congleton Lions dementia buddy scheme and the New Life church " forget - I - not " group for carer and those live with dementia ; we have over 1 , 000 Dementia Friends in Sandbach and the " bring I sunshine " group at Sandbach library ; we have memory caf é s at Alsager library , Astbury village hall and Holmes Chapel Methodist church ; and I would like to say a huge thank you to everyone involve in make Holmes Chapel a dementia - friendly village . I have not capture the full range of support provide and I apologise to the group that I may not have pick up on , but the variety of service provide by people on an unpaid basis across my community be staggering . however , that do not take away from the fact that we need the right pay service for people in their home and subsequently in care home , if that become the right choice for family . I thank everyone who be provide enormous support to the people who they care for , across our entire society . I know that hon . member from all party will agree that we need to provide more support to those give that care . I thank my hon . friend the Member for South Devon ( Caroline Voaden ) for bring this debate to the House . I would also like to give credit to the hon . member for Hartlepool ( Mr Brash ) , whose touch tribute to their father remind I of the grandfather who I know and love , before dementia slowly strip I of that man . Dementia be a particularly cruel terminal illness and the lead cause of death in the UK . we each know somebody who be watch or who have watch somebody they love slowly fade from dementia . one day , some of our own child will slowly be rob of we — perhaps , in time , my daughter will slowly suffer my own withdrawal . the very foundation of our character be the memory of life live , and friend and family love . Dementia steal away those memory , and with each memory lose , so too be a little more of that person . child and grandchild , once a source of joy and warmth , become stranger as the void leave by lose memory be fill with confusion and fear . confusion chip away at confidence while fear eat away at empathy . once only a shadow of the person we love remain , dementia take their independence . it come for their speech , their ability to walk and even their ability to eat . for those who shoulder the burden of care , the impact be profound , provoke compete feeling of sadness , anger and pride . many do not realise that they be carer and soldier on in their duty to their love one without external support . young carer , such as those I meet recently in Twigworth , shoulder their additional responsibility through the most challenging period of their own development . many do not know that they be carer , and too many be not identify as such by their school or their authority . the financial burden of dementia on the UK economy be £ 42 billion per year , and £ 26 billion of that be bear by informal carer . patient and carer alike be fail by dual crisis in social care and the NHS , and the stress impose on patient only hasten their decline . liberal Democrats have consistently call on this Government to address the grow social care crisis with a long - term plan , and I reiterate that we can not adequately support the NHS without address social care . other member have speak at length about measure that the Government can take . I will not repeat those , but I will say that one area in which the Government can move quickly be dementia care skill , through tailor training for our health and care worker to well understand the need of dementia patient . too often , care be not adequately tailor for dementia . in Tewkesbury constituency , I be proud to have Gloucestershire ' s sole dementia - only nursing home , Wentworth Court . I will be visit it this week to listen to its need and learn from its experience , and I will follow up by write to the Secretary of State . I think this evening that I might appraise the House of the story of Pat and John Hirst from my constituency . Pat be a nurse . she qualify in 1975 at Leeds general infirmary , and the follow year she meet John while study in Liverpool . they marry in 1978 , raise their three son and settle in Stockton . Pat return to work after she have have her child , initially in nursing home , care for resident with dementia , then later at the University hospital of North Tees , where she work for more than a decade . in the final month of Pat ' s time at the hospital , her performance as a nurse begin to decline . unbeknownst to her colleague or her family , Pat be display the early symptom of frontotemporal dementia , which we hear about early from the hon . member for South Devon ( Caroline Voaden ) . Pat ' s colleague do not realise that , so disciplinary action be initiate . John believe that Pat would have be dismiss , but she instead decide to retire on her 60th birthday , before the end of that year . in early 2012 , Pat experience swallow difficulty . she undergo test across several hospital , and the diagnosis come . no further explanation be provide , other than a referral to the local memory clinic — an experience of many people with dementia . that evening , John sit at his computer and search online for more information . there , alone in his own home , he learn that the average life expectancy from diagnosis be between two and 20 year . he have not realise until that point that dementia could be a terminal illness . I think we can all agree that there must be a well way of find out such devastating news . Pat remain aware of her surrounding and her loved one until the very end . in her final two year , she lose the ability to speak and could communicate only with her eye . John recall the look of fear in her eye when it become clear that end of life care be begin . at that point , she be fully aware that she be say goodbye to her husband and her son . their grandson Henry be now two year old . he will never know his granny , but John be determined that Henry and other of his generation should grow up in a world where dementia can be diagnose early , manage well and ultimately cure . John now volunteer with Alzheimer ' s Research UK , and he recently complete a walk from Teesside to Newcastle to raise awareness and funding . for those not familiar with the area , that be quite a long distance . even walk , he get there fast than he would have do on the Durham coast line . in Stockton , we have about 1 , 300 people suffer from dementia , but it take six week long for a dementia diagnosis in my constituency than the national average . we clearly need to ensure that people be diagnose early before symptom become apparent , but it be also important that we raise awareness with the public and employer that early - onset dementia can and do affect people before retirement age , so that people do not suffer the kind of treatment that Pat do in her last year of employment . while the impact of dementia be a difficulty for a parent , it add a new dimension when that person be diagnose at the age of 30 or 40 . we have hear already that if nothing change , one in two of we will be affect by dementia , whether individually , live as a carer or both . John speak not only for himself and for Pat , but for the thousand of family across Stockton North and the country who be face this condition . we owe it to John and to other family to ensure that the experience of dementia be no long define by lengthy wait , lack of information and financial hardship or , indeed , improve by people like John walk long distance from Teesside to Newcastle . instead , it should be define by early intervention , compassionate care , and meaningful progress through research . I start by thank my hon . friend the Member for South Devon ( Caroline Voaden ) for secure this debate . I also thank the many member from all part of the House who have share passionate story , either of their own or of constituent . far too many people across the UK be live with dementia , a cruel and progressive condition that rob they of their memory , speech and independence . for every person with dementia , there be often a family do everything they can behind closed door to hold thing together . I have hear from so many , and one of they be my constituent , Claire . Claire describe her mother , Christine , as a vibrant and sociable woman . she be a devoted mother , a church flower arranger and a proud Harpenden resident of nearly 40 year . however , in her early 60 , Christine start show sign of confusion , withdrawal and mood swing . her family notice something be off , but like so many other , they do not assume it be dementia . even medical professional overlook these sign . Christine ' s story take a devastating turn in 2018 , just four week after her daughter Claire have give birth to twin . at what should have be a joyful and tender time in their family ' s life , Christine suffer a cardiac arrest . that moment plunge she into mid - stage vascular dementia , a terminal diagnosis with no treatment or cure . after Christine ' s diagnosis , the family be visit by a nurse once and then tell they be be discharge . they receive no care plan nor long - term guidance . from then on , care fall entirely to the family . Claire ' s dad , a retired engineer , become a full - time carer overnight . he learn to administer insulin and to manage medicine , and he join online course alongside his daughter . support for the family come when Dementia UK get involve in March 2020 , and that be great , but unfortunately it be too late to change the trajectory and be tragically interrupt by the pandemic . admiral nurse , who provide expert guidance for family such as Claire ' s , could have make all the difference , but demand continue to outstrip supply . through it all , Claire create something positive . she see at first hand the extraordinary power music have to reach her mum , even in the late stage of her dementia , so she set up se from the heart , a community singalong in care setting and online for people with dementia . it be a real pleasure to visit they in the Willow Court care home and to hear Claire play along and the resident enjoy it . it be now a lasting tribute to her mother , who pass away in April last year , age 73 . alongside sing from the Heart in Harpenden and berkhamste , we also have the memory caf é at Harpenden Trust and Open Door . there be so many volunteer , as mention today , work to give that care in the community . everyone with dementia deserve high - quality care whenever they need it . the Liberal Democrats want everyone to be able to live independently and with dignity , and to receive any care they need in their home whenever possible . that be why we have routinely call on the Government to act now . their decision to quietly drop cross - party talk on social care and push the delivery of the Casey commission ' s recommendation to almost a decade away will leave many with dementia , and their family , pay the price . do the Government accept that dementia care be in crisis , and will they now commit to well funding , so that family in this country do not go through the same hardship of receive care as Claire and Christine ? I now ask Members to keep their comment to no more than four minute . all politic be personal , and I thank right hon . and hon . member for share their personal experience today . three year ago , Clackmannanshire become home to the Alzheimer Scotland brain health and dementia resource centre . alongside other local woman , Debbie Cassidy — a constituent of mine — raise in excess of £ 100 , 000 and create a first for our country : a dedicated brain hub that help people understand and manage the factor that affect brain health and what potentially lead to dementia . that be a terrific achievement , and an inspirational example of what can be achieve by local people when they be back with the right support . talk of support , for year Ludgate House in Alloa have be instrumental in provide specialist respite care for people and family with many complex need , include dementia . clackmannanshire resident with dementia have receive the most compassionate , attentive and brilliant care from the staff — the same dedicated staff who have provide peace of mind to family , allow they to take a much - need break from their caring responsibility . however , there be uncertainty around the future of the respite unit at Ludgate House . this be a consequence of the chronic underfunding and systemic issue within our scottish social care system . the possible fate of the respite unit at Ludgate House be representative of a broad crisis in dementia care . in Scotland , over 90 , 000 people be live with dementia , a number that be project to rise by 50 % by 2040 . with that alarming prediction , the removal of that respite unit would leave a significant void in our community , deprive family of essential support and place additional strain on already overstretch health service . in fact , a recent report from Alzheimer Scotland highlight the lack of strategic planning in commission for long - term care , note that many people with advanced dementia face monthly care bill of thousand of pound . like people from all over the UK , family from Clackmannanshire have be and continue to be victim of the cost of living crisis , so the possibility of lose the respite unit at Ludgate House do not bear think about . in response , I be work with the staff . we have set up a campaign to keep the respite unit open and press the integration joint board for clarity , transparency and — above all else — the continue delivery of this vital service . the Scottish Government must invest in dementia care , allocate sufficient funding to support exist facility and develop new community - base care model . there must be equitable access to dementia care regardless of financial circumstance , and we must support people with dementia , their family , carer , and the staff affect by the uncertainty surround Ludgate House and , of course , facility all across Scotland and the UK that face very similar problem . I thank my hon . friend the Member for South Devon ( Caroline Voaden ) for secure this important debate . in my constituency , an estimate 1 , 638 people be live with dementia , which be above the national average . however , beyond those number be the story of individual people , each with their own unique experience of live with dementia . Dementia do not discriminate ; it can impact anyone , rob they of their good memory and devastating family and friend in its wake . I also commend those who dedicate themselves to care for and support those with dementia . I have be lucky enough to meet some of they in Melksham and Devizes . recently , I visit a branch of the Nationwide bank in Devizes , which have be host dementia - friendly session and act as a support hub for those with dementia . it be truly heartwarme to see the friendship and bond form between the regular customer and the staff , who have undertake special training to help they . however , I must also point out the impact that the hike in employer ' national insurance contribution be have on care provider , include those provide care for people with dementia . the care sector already operate on a razor - thin margin , and these rise have increase operational cost drastically , affect not only the budget of the individual and local authority who will be pick up the add burden , but hospice , which be be face with difficult choice over who they can care for and for how long , and how to raise sufficient fund to continue operate . I , too , thank the hon . member for South Devon ( Caroline Voaden ) for initiate this important debate , especially because dementia be the define health and social care challenge of our time . it be now a lead cause of death in the UK , and one in two of we will be affect in our lifetime , whether through receive a diagnosis ourselves , care for a love one , or both . yet despite the scale and impact of the condition , people affect by dementia continue to face a fragmented system that all too often leave they without the support they need when they need it most . navigate a complex web of health and social care service be exhausting , and for many family it lead to crisis before help arrive . as the hon . Member explain , there be a postcode lottery , but I be proud of the fact that Wolverhampton be a dementia - friendly city . through Dementia Connect , a personalised support service from the Alzheimer ' s Society , people have access to a wide range of help . whether it involve emotional support , advice on benefit , connection to local support group or practical tip for live with dementia , the service make a real difference , enhance the quality of life for patient and their family . alongside that , Wolverhampton ' s wide dementia pathway — our memory clinic , community health team , Admiral Nurses , dementia caf é s and carer support service — form a crucial safety net for family who be under immense pressure . to every NHS worker and social care professional , and to all the volunteer and the army of unpaid worker who provide support for patient and family in my constituency , I say " thank you . " their knowledge , their live experience and their absolute dedication be deeply value and appreciate . however , local service can only go so far , which be why I be urge the Government to make dementia a core priority in their upcoming NHS 10 - year plan . I ask the Secretary of State and the Minister to listen to lead expert such as Dementia UK and Age UK ; to ringfence funding for dementia specialist nurse in every NHS acute trust ; to embed dementia specialist nurse , such as Admiral Nurses , in neighbourhood health centre ; to tackle the delay and disparity in dementia diagnosis — as of April 2025 , only 65 % of those age 65 or over who be estimate to have dementia have have a record diagnosis — to ensure investment in diagnostic capacity , include memory clinic ; and to address the grow concern among old people and unpaid carer about their ability to access these vital service . Dementia be not just a clinical condition ; it be a personal crisis that unfold in so many live room , GP surgery , hospital ward and care home across our country . let we not allow a " geography roulette " to determine the dignity that be need by every person who be affect by dementia . Dementia be such a cruel disease . let we be clear that it be not simply part of get old , yet too often it be treat as though it be inevitable . in my constituency the number of people live with dementia be nearly 40 % high than the national average . one in every 45 adult of all age have be diagnose , and we know that the true number be even high when we include those not diagnose . family member , who provide such amazing care , be rely so heavily on community group such as Stepping Stones — lead by my predecessor and good friend , Dame Annette Brooke — with jigsaw and its tea dance provide moment of joy . the Leonardo Trust provide grant for unpaid carer , and I thank the Museum of East Dorset for its fantastic work in recruit resident to crochet the over 8 , 000 forget - I - not that decorate the town of Wimborne last month . neurological condition such as dementia be the lead cause of illness globally , and as our population age , the challenge will only grow . however , dementia be not just a disease of old age — some of the most heartbreaking case be among young people . a neighbour of mine in Broadstone — a proud veteran , builder and father — be diagnose in his early 50 . I watch he go from walk past our house without recognise we , to need a carer by his side and now live full - time in a care home . his daughter , who once play with mine , will never have their father walk they down the aisle and his wife will never share the retirement they dream of . that be why I do not hesitate to become a dementia research champion . if we do not understand how the brain work and how to stop it fail , we will not get the benefit of extended life expectancy . today , the Daily Mirror have report that over 100 new drug be in development to halt dementia , with scientist say we be at the start of a journey to a cure . of these drug , 86 % could halt or reverse the disease . however , research alone be not enough , and we must transform the care we give . like those of other member , my constituent be face a battle just to get the care they need . Andrew be tell that his wife Tricia do not qualify for NHS continue healthcare because it do not meet the NHS - fund nursing criterion of be short term or of optimum potential , despite change on a daily basis . the council eventually step in , but not until Andrew himself have become ill . why be nursing care not be pick up by the NHS ? surely that be what it be for . another constituent , Emma - Jane , tell I about her mother , who have dementia and paranoia , and have become abusive . her father , who have protect his family for so long , once spend the night in a park just to escape . a social worker decide that her mother could not go into a care home , because her mother have want to stay at home , despite acknowledge that she lack the capacity to make such a decision . after access respite care when the family reach crisis , Emma - Jane be now fund care privately , while she battle the council because her father simply can not cope . this be intolerable : family be break and council be overwhelmed . Kevin write to I about his Aunt Jean , now 92 , who enter a care home eight year ago . the family home have go and the money have go , so the council must step in , but the care home fee be nearly double the local authority cap . even with Jean ' s pension and a discount from the care company , there be a £ 300 a week shortfall , leave the family to choose between pay out of their own pocket or move she from the place she have call home for nearly a decade . to put that into perspective , the cost of care for Jean for one year , after her pension contribution , be equivalent to the total annual council tax of 24 household . if every dementia patient in my constituency need council tax fund care , it would consume the council tax of 43 , 000 home , and I have only 44 , 000 in the whole constituency . we must act : we must invest in research , support carer , and reform how we fund and deliver care . I call on the Minister to push for fast progress on the Casey report . there be no choice : the cost of inaction be too high for our family , our community and our country . there be no doubt that dementia be the big health challenge of our time . it be the lead cause of death in the UK , and there will not be a single family across our country that be not touch by this illness . I suspect that for most of in this House , if not all , it will be no different . I look to my own experience with my mum , who develop a condition when she be age 62 or 63 . my mum , Phyllis McAllister , a nurse , nursing sister and midwife — a carer by profession — be also an unpaid carer to my late father , after he suffer a stroke , until she could care no more , with the carer now need care . it be often say that it can be a postcode lottery when it come to the provision of dementia care , both at home and in residential care . my family and I be very fortunate in that our experience be a positive one . the provision of dementia healthcare service be the responsibility of local integrate healthcare board . that be the case across the UK . my labour - run administration in West Dunbartonshire provide outstanding home care service on a daily basis to allow my mother to remain in her home for as long as possible . however , the highly dedicated team of home carer be often expect to do more for their client with reduce time . those be the consequence of the cut to local government and health and social care budget from central Government over the last decade . they be play out on the frontline of dementia care . I serve as a councillor on West Dunbartonshire council for 21 year and I be very proud of our record on the provision of dementia care . as an administration , we take the bold step — the brave yet correct decision — to continue to offer local authority - run residential care home . we build two large , state - of - the - art care home : Crosslet House in Dumbarton ; and Queens Quay in Clydebank , where my mother now receive quite outstanding care by a highly dedicated team of care staff , which my brother and I be so appreciative of . I refer to that , because it demonstrate what all local authority and integrate care board could and should provide , give the correct support and funding from central Government . I want my UK Labour Government to prioritise a society where every person with dementia receive high - quality , compassionate care , from diagnosis through to end of life care . we must commit to improve dementia care and empower our local leader with the autonomy they need to provide the good service to their local community . that mean the UK Labour Government learn the lesson of SNP failure . early this year , the Scottish Government formally abandon their national care service plan , scale back their flagship policy of centralised control under a single national body , waste time and money — £ 30 million waste , money that could have deliver 1 million extra hour of care , stop care package be cut and provide the essential dementia care that family across Scotland be so desperate for . there be a role for central Government . the Labour Government ' s 10 - year health plan provide a key opportunity to fix dementia care . it start with a blueprint for transform early dementia diagnosis . diagnosis late in the progression of the disease cost all of we so much more . early diagnosis be vital to ensure people with dementia can access the treatment and support they need . our 10 - year plan should include bold , brave commitment to fund and provide our NHS with groundbreake new treatment , medicine and research , include clinical trial of promise new dementia drug . I urge the Minister to commit our Labour Government to improve dementia care across the board : cause , diagnosis , prevention , treatment , care and support . I want to share some of my experience and , with her support , the experience of my office manager , Becca . Becca and I agree that the issue we want to raise in the debate be dignity . becca ' s nan , Pat , live with dementia for over a decade . she receive care both at home and , later , in a specialist dementia care home . at home , the care she receive be poor . when carer visit , Pat be leave in inappropriate clothing , unwashed or not take to the toilet . her husband , then in his late 80 , and their daughter be leave to care for she . when Pat move into a care home , the quality of care improve . the staff clearly care for she , and over time she become one of the long - reside resident . some carer treat she like family . but even in a good care home , the pressure of understaffing mean that dignity be often the first thing to be compromise . Pat ' s husband and daughter visit she every day . they notice that she be frequently dress in clothe that do not belong to she , despite everything be clearly label . sometimes , other resident wear the outfits her family have choose for Pat . as a result , Pat be often leave in ill - fit clothe . bad , carer do not always have time to take Pat to the toilet . Pat ' s daughter would have to raise that she have to go to the toilet , or that she need to be clean and dress . every day , she have to advocate for her mother to ensure that she be treat with the dignity she deserve . my nan , Hilda Duffield , be bear Hilda Caunt in 1918 . by the time she be 90 , Hilda — nan — be lose mobility and suffer memory loss . Ted , my grandad , have become her devoted carer and take over all the domestic task . after some time , nan be diagnose with dementia . I remember the disease become increasingly entangle with and amplify she already worrisome nature . she start to become angry , fly off the handle with stress over where grandad be — whether he be in the next room or have pop to the shop . the disease take an increase hold over she as time progress . my nan and grandad continue to manage together for several year , but the situation change rapidly when grandad become ill himself in autumn 2012 . when he be admit to hospital , it be clear that nan need full - time care . after a few week in residential care , she be move to the same nursing hospital as grandad , and she be present at his bedside when he die in January 2013 . they have be marry for 73 year . with my grandad ' s death , my nan ' s dementia worsen . she be move to a care home near my uncle Neil in Bolton , as he and my aunt Eileen would be able to spend time with she during the day . I , however , never see my nan again after she move to Bolton . by all account , by that stage she have no memory of I or of much of my family . she spend her day hallucinate and have become abusive to care home staff ; I remember my uncle Neil tell I how he regularly hear she scream word he do not know she know at people who be try to help she . we decide as a family that there be no benefit to I or to several other family member visit , and that it be well for everyone who could to remember she as she be before her mind be take by that cruel disease . I do not know if that be the right thing to do . I never will . by the end , like Pat and so many other who suffer with dementia , my nan have lose her dignity to that disease . she have lose everything and need those around she to maintain her dignity for she . in Erewash and across the country , so many more have story like those I have share today . not all those suffering have someone who can advocate for they , but I hope I have go some way towards do so today , as have my colleague across the House — my gratitude go out to all of they . I congratulate the hon . member for South Devon ( Caroline Voaden ) on secure this important debate and on her excellent speech , and I wish her father - in - law and cousin all the very good . I have be the co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group on dementia for the past 10 year . like my co - chair , Baroness Angela Browning , I become involved because of a love one who have acquire the disease . in my case , it be my mum , who be also call Angela and who be diagnose with Alzheimer ' s disease at 64 ; along with my stepfather and brother , I care for she until she die in 2012 . after her death , I become a dementia friend champion — the first MP to do so — which allow I to do a number of dementia friend session . as a consequence , we have hundred of people involve in Oldham , and have set up a dementia - friendly Oldham , with an annual memory walk and lot of other group that support family affect by dementia . I be very proud of that . I appreciate that the Government have yet to publish any plan on dementia , but give that dementia , as we have hear today , be the lead cause of death in the UK — above heart disease and above cancer — and affect nearly 1 million people , with an equivalent number of carer , I know that the Minister will give it the focus and attention it deserve . we have also hear that a quarter of NHS bed be occupy by someone with dementia who be fit and able to be discharge , but who can not be discharge because of the crisis in social care . People with degenerative condition stay under consultant care , but after 18 month my constituent with Alzheimer ' s be discharge with no monitoring and no access to specialist nurse unless refer by a very lengthy gp process . he tell I that he feel abandon . do the hon . Lady agree that dementia must be treat as seriously as other long - term condition , and that everyone with dementia should have access to a specialist nurse and an annual health and care review ? that be a very long question . I certainly believe that we need to improve care . Dementia be obviously an umbrella term for several different disease , and we can not make recommendation that apply to each specific disease ; I think that have unfortunately not have the airing that it might have . the APPG have undertake a number of inquiry of which I be incredibly proud . a few year ago , we publish " Workforce Matters " , which be still very relevant today . we have hear some of the recommendation around specialist care . unfortunately , we have a postcode lottery ; the APPG hear some fantastic example of care , but also some not - so - great example . there be also a survey of nearly 2 , 000 people . there be still lot to do there , and I hope the Minister will look at those recommendation . our " raise the Barriers " report around the inequality in dementia diagnosis also need further attention . those inequality be not just by geography , but by different cohort of people . in my last minute or so , I will talk about prevention , as we have hear only a little reference to that . with young - onset dementia , we be able to track the start of change in people ' s brain from the age of 30 that be associate with different cognitive disease . what be good for our heart be also good for our head , but there be other thing to consider , include reduce air pollution . we know that smoking and heart disease be a real no - no , as be obesity and high blood pressure . it be also important to be on top of hear loss and related issue . excess alcohol consumption be another factor ; few than 14 unit a week be the guidance for a healthy life , but 18 be excessive . social isolation be really bad for dementia , as be traumatic brain injury . I be support Football Families for Justice , which be run by Nobby Stiles ' s son , to try to get compensation and support for footballer who have be affect by their sport throughout their career and be suffer from brain disease as a consequence . we be call on football authority to take responsibility . footballer be now pay fantastically well , but that be not the case in the past and we need to make sure that those player be care for ; this be an occupational disease . I thank the hon . member for South Devon ( Caroline Voaden ) for secure this important debate . we have hear many move speech this afternoon , and it have be a great honour to sit and listen to they . we must remember that dementia be not a fact of life , or something that everyone must face as they get old . it be not inevitable as a part of ageing . Dementia be a disease — a dreadful disease at that . some 1 . 5 million people will be live with dementia in this country by 2040 , so let we treat dementia with the same seriousness that we treat all other deadly condition . let we not neglect dementia simply because it disproportionately affect old people . at present , we have a fragmented and complex health system that do not provide a clear enough route for people with dementia . let we improve specialist dementia support in hospital and in the community . it be simply our duty to do so . the estimate economic impact of dementia in the UK last year be £ 42 . 5 billion . by contrast , we learn yesterday that the defence budget be £ 58 billion . it be suggest that , by 2040 , the dementia budget will be £ 90 billion , so something must be do . improve the treatment of dementia in our community and in primary care setting will certainly help to free up hospital and care system , because , as we have hear , people with dementia occupy a quarter of all the hospital bed in the country . let we move dementia treatment into the community , with specialist nurse in community to ease the pressure . Dementia be not inevitable . we must be bold , optimistic and forward - thinking , and prepare to deploy radical advance in science to tackle the condition . let we support our scientist and researcher as they strive to develop more effective treatment and make progress towards cure the disease . let we support research by enable the NHS to empower its clinician to conduct research and to use patient datum . that would help to facilitate medical research and increase the number of clinical academic , whose number have be decline for much too long . I be delighted to hear my hon . friend the Member for Oldham East and Saddleworth ( Debbie Abrahams ) talk about hear loss . many member will know that I be an ear , nose and throat surgeon . hear loss be absolutely central to the problem of people withdraw from the society in which they live . the simple testing of hearing and the provision of hear aid will do much to help . I urge member of a certain age to consider have a hearing test . I be interested to know what we can do with patient datum . if researcher across the country run study on 67 million people , we would accelerate progress towards a cure . artificial intelligence could be set to work analyse dataset and provide rich source of longitudinal datum to inform future research and cure . artificial intelligence already model the folding of protein that cause the disease , so to secure those benefit , let we do something about the collection of medical information , and let we prioritise openness by give patient access to their medical record , allow they to see how the information be be use to support the NHS . that be something we could do to help . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank my hon . friend the Member for South Devon ( Caroline Voaden ) for secure this important debate . listen to the story from member on all side of the House , it be clear that this be not simply a political debate ; it be deeply personal to pretty much everyone here . my father have dementia . he be a typical irish farmer ; he be very strong - willed , physically tough and fiercely independent , and he be use to work all hour of the day . watch that man slip away , become increasingly confused , anxious and very often unreasonably angry , be one of the most heartbreaking experience of my life . I know I be not alone in experience that , as we have hear very similar story . many member have say that with dementia we lose the person we love twice — first slowly , piece by piece , and then again at the end . the final loss can feel like a relief , because it be a prolonged bereavement ; the grief start sometimes year before . Dementia be a brutal disease , not just for those who be experience it but for those who be care . for spouse , child and family , it be relentless emotional toil , sleepless night and endless juggling of task . my hon . friend share his experience of lose his father . I lose my father in the same way , and he too be a proud farming man . I want to raise an issue from a constituent who contact I about her father James . he be currently alone in a room in a hospital , and he be scared to mix with other violent dementia patient . he want to be at home , and the family want he to be at home , but there be barrier in social care in Somerset at the moment . do my hon . friend agree that dementia patient should be able to live independently at home , with dignity , and receive the care — order . yes , I agree that empower people to live as independently as possible be hugely important . for I , there be guilt — for many year actually . I feel guilty about the moment of resentment at how my job and career be affect , and for lose patience when face with the anger of someone you be try to care for . I remember that my dad do not really understand that all we be try to do be help . I want to mention the very insightful piece of advice from the right hon . member for Wetherby and Easingwold ( Sir Alec Shelbrooke ) not to argue with people who have dementia . I wish I have understand when we be care for my father that there be no need to correct his current understanding of the world . my grandfather be bear in 1870 , and my father keep ask where he be . we try to explain that he would have be age 130 if he have still be alive , but I wonder why we have those discussion . that be a hugely important and emotive piece of advice . when I lead a district council , one thing we try to do be take initiative to make we more dementia - friendly . there be some excellent training run by the Alzheimer ' s Society . do the hon . Member agree that all mps ' office should be seek to take such initiative so that we can be compassionate in the way that he describe ? I completely agree with what the hon . Member have just suggest . there be no way that we can approach dementia without a huge amount of compassion and empathy . I thank the hon . member for draw attention to the issue of not seek to correct those with dementia on where they think they be . in that respect , dementia care and understanding have come a long way , and in fact it be now standard not to try to do that . I thank the hon . member , along with my right hon . friend the Member for Wetherby and Easingwold ( Sir Alec Shelbrooke ) , for raise that issue in the Chamber . I remember try to explain to my father about the sheepdog , which he love to train but which he do not recognise as his own any more . that be unusual for a farmer . there be no need to have that discussion ; it be heartbreaking . the dog love my dad and dad not recognise he any more be very upsetting . this all still feel very raw , but as we have hear today , my story be not in any way unique . there be so many family in Winchester and around the country who be experience that similar , heartbreaking journey . care for my father be one of the hard thing that my family have ever do . I pay tribute to my mother , who bear the brunt of care for my father for many year ; to my sister Irene , who help hugely for year and year ; to my cousin Patrick ; and to our neighbour James and Deborah Hodgson — we could not have manage without they . however , especially near the end , we could not have do without the extraordinary support of the care worker who come to help on a regular basis . their compassion , skill and dedication help get we through some of the dark day . that dedication be extraordinary . Dad love singing and one of our care worker have print out some of the song that he know — some old Methodist hymn , " the Old Rugged Cross " and " Danny Boy " , which be his favourite song and the song that I be name after . he might not have remember our dog , but he could remember every word of " Danny Boy " when he be singe it . the dedication of the care worker , to find out someone ' s favourite song and then sing it with they , be quite extraordinary . care worker , who be vital and skilled , be often underpaid , undervalue and stretch beyond endurance . we just can not allow that to continue . that be why the Liberal Democrats call for urgent and meaningful reform of social care — reform that start with recognise and properly reward and support the workforce who underpin it . we have be call for a national social care workforce plan — not for the can to be kick far down the road , but a real plan to address recruitment , retention and training , with practical step to fix the staffing crisis . we want to establish a royal college of care worker to give care professional the recognition and career development that they deserve . I pay tribute to Liz Blacklock from Winchester , who run Lapis Care base in Bishop ' s Waltham , where I go on some visit a few week ago . Liz have long be call for a formal register of care worker , which would be one of the function of any new royal college of care worker . liberal Democrats also call for a national carer register , so that all unpaid family carer can be well support , for example with statutory respite care . we also call for a high carer ' s minimum wage , because pay poverty wage for such emotionally and physically demanding work be not only unjust but short - sighted and drive burnout , turnover and , ultimately , bad care . let we be clear : dementia be not go away . one in three people bear today will develop dementia . the hon . member for worthe West ( Dr Cooper ) , with her public health experience , be insightful in her advice on how we can help to prevent it from develop . the financial pressure on local authority , drive in large part by adult social care , be among the most urgent political challenge of this decade . in Winchester , the Chesil Lodge day centre provide essential care for old adult , include those with dementia , and importantly provide respite care for family member . Hampshire county council be threaten to withdraw funding . that could overwhelm unpaid carer , force love one into residential care , which in the end will cost the council and taxpayer more . with the political will , proper investment and genuine commitment to value and care work , we can build a system that support people with dementia with dignity and give their family the help and hope they so desperately need . I call the shadow Minister . I think we have establish that dementia be a thief , not once but twice : first of the mind , then of the memory , leave the great pain not with the sufferer but with those who remember . I thank the hon . member for South Devon ( Caroline Voaden ) for secure such an important debate and for speak so passionately and openly about her story , as do many across this House . I also thank the Alzheimer ' s Society , Alzheimer ' s Research UK , Dementia UK and all those people who advocate for dementia and their family . as we have hear , there be 1 million people live with dementia in the UK , and that figure be project to rise to 1 . 4 million by 2040 . one in six hospital bed be occupy by dementia patient , and dementia sufferer be three time more likely to see their gp . modelling suggest that 70 % of care home resident be people live with dementia . in this House I often enjoy the tired line from the then opposition about how the Conservatives never do enough on x or y or z . as Labour Members be ably demonstrate , it be easy to stand across the aisle and say that nothing be ever enough , but as they be learn , deliver in the real world be far hard than demand from the sideline . on dementia , the Conservative Government lead from the front with more funding , well diagnosis and a national commitment to change life . we all agree that we must continue to do more , but to do that we need direction and action , and that be what we be explore here today , almost one year on from the introduction of a Labour Government . can the shadow Minister remind we about the commitment in the 2019 conservative manifesto on the dementia moonshot and tell we if and when that be deliver ? if the hon . Lady will bear with I , I be go to canter through what we have do in the past 14 year , because it be , after all , under the premiership of Lord Cameron that the challenge on dementia set the ambition for England to be " the good country in the world for dementia care and support and for people with dementia , their carer and family to live " . so , on to the point . in 2012 , the then Prime Minister set the challenge to make we a global leader and increase awareness and research . this include the dementia friend initiative — a public campaign to boost understanding , over 1 million dementia friend train by 2015 and increase research funding , which double from 2010 to 2015 . in 2015 , the Prime Minister ' s challenge on dementia 2020 set national goal for diagnosis rate , care quality and research impact , include a national target for dementia diagnosis rate of 66 . 7 % , which be meet in 2015 . in 2016 and 2017 , the UK Dementia Research Institute , launch under Theresa May , be a flagship initiative back by £ 290 million from the Government and charity . this actually deliver £ 300 million in dementia research and innovation by March 2020 , a full year ahead of schedule . we have the NHS long - term plan in 2019 , which commit to enhance diagnosis . in 2019 we also have the dementia moonshot pledge from Boris Johnson , with an extra £ 160 million . this be follow up in 2022 with the Dame Barbara Windsor dementia mission — a £ 95 million fund to accelerate research into treatment and early diagnosis . of course , the pandemic hit and we have the recovery , and that be why the Government set out the 2023 major condition strategy , which would have include dementia . there be therefore a question for this Government as to the priority they have give to dementia since take office , and it be worth look at why concern be be raise . this government , rightly so in their own right , do not opt to proceed with the major condition strategy . that might surprise some member , as we hear the current Minister , the hon . member for Bristol South ( Karin Smyth ) , who be in her place , call for a dedicated dementia strategy a number of time when she be in opposition . only last year , she say the following in a Westminster Hall debate on new dementia treatment : " as my hon . friend the Member for Oldham East and Saddleworth say , it be disappointing that the Government shelve the plan for a dedicated dementia strategy . England remain the only nation without a specific dementia plan . that be very short - term thinking , and it would be interesting to hear from the Minister about that . in 2022 , I say : ' we can not give confidence to people suffer with dementia and their carer without a much clear plan that be in place very quickly . ' — [ Official Report , 14 June 2022 ; Vol . 716 , c . 141 . ] that remain the case today . " — [ Official Report , 11 January 2024 ; Vol . 743 , c . 192WH . ] so I would like to ask the Minister : do he stand by these comment and can we therefore expect a dedicated dementia strategy ? it be easy for the conservative side of the House to understand that governing be difficult . good intention make fine opposition speech until they collide with reality . do the Minister plan to carry on with a dedicated strategy , and would he be kind enough to confirm that today ? on the topic of strategy and comment make by Labour Ministers before they take office , I note that in a Westminster Hall debate on inequality in dementia service only in May last year , less than a week before the general election be call , the shadow Health Minister and now the independent hon . member for Gorton and Denton ( Andrew Gwynne ) promise a carer strategy . he say that carer be " a vital part of the fight against dementia , and they will be at the heart of Labour ' s plan in Government . there will be a carer strategy under the next Labour Government , because we value the vital work our carer do . it will be a cross - government strategy with the Department for Work and Pensions , Department for Education and the future of work review all feed into it along with the Department of Health and Social Care . there be a bright future for those live with dementia and their family and carer . labour will deliver it . " — [ Official Report , 16 May 2024 ; Vol . 750 , c . 228WH . ] that be a laudable aim . however , since the election , it appear that all be not quite as it seem . in an oral question in the other place in November , Baroness Merron make it clear that she have " not commit to a national carer strategy " , state , " I do have to say to the noble Baroness that I have not commit to a national carer strategy . however , in our join - up approach , we will certainly be look at what be need . that will be very much part of our consideration on the workforce strategy , which Minister Karin Smyth will be lead on . it be crucial to the delivery of service . " — [ Official Report , House of Lords , 19 November 2024 ; Vol . 841 , c . 107 . ] I therefore ask the Minister today whether specific plan be still in place for a national care strategy . as my hon . friend know , at the beginning of the year , the Government and NHS England remove dementia from their planning guidance , which set their priority for the year ahead . crucially , they remove the diagnosis target . that be a cruel blow to people live with dementia and their family . will the Minister give his view on the Government remove dementia from their target and priority ? I be grateful , first , for my hon . friend promote I and , secondly , for his expertise in this area because I understand that he have work with Dementia UK . he be absolutely right — he have beat I to the chase . one of the real concern that charity and patient have raise be exactly that : the removal of this crucial diagnosis target . we only need to look at Wales where that be not the case . the national diagnosis rate be 56 % — 10 % low than in England . on top of that , the Government be preside over a major top - down restructuring with cut to integrate care board and NHS England , while force through devolution on the 21 county - run authority responsible for social care , while raise taxis in the employment national insurance contribution on care provider , which will get pass on to local council , while raise taxis on the very dementia charity and other that provide support , while ditch the fast - track social work scheme as we learn last week , while terminate the NHS and care volunteer response that help support care , and while scrap the cross - party talk on social care and instead swap it to an independent commission lead by Baroness Casey , who still second to the Home Office . we can all see what be be take away and tax . it be what be go to benefit dementia support and care that be much hard to spot . in the rough and tumble of this place , it be not lose on I how much this issue touch the Minister himself . he have speak bravely and openly about his family ' s struggle , and I have the utmost respect for he and what he have be through , and I have be through similar with my grandmother Dot . I do not question his heart ; I simply gently challenge the Government on their policy to achieve well dementia care for all . to that end , I have a couple of question . will the Government commit to set a new target to increase dementia diagnosis rate across England ? with integrated care system face restructuring and budget resolution , how do the Government plan to hold local system to account on dementia diagnosis , especially across the NHS and social care ? we have see in Wales how irregular data collection on dementia diagnosis affect overall diagnosis rate . what step will the Government take to improve the quality of datum in dementia diagnosis , particularly when it come to follow up ? give the grow prevalence of dementia in our care home , what step will the Government take to support provider and ensure that the social care workforce be train effectively to meet the need of care user ? with the upcoming spending review and the long - await 10 - year plan for the NHS expect in the next couple of month , I trust the Minister sit in front of I . he be the right person to highlight to the Government the seriousness and importance of tackle dementia , just like the last Government understand . I return to where I start : dementia steal the most from those leave remembering , because the great heartbreak be lose someone who be still here . but with compassion for family , dignity for those who suffer and the relentless pursuit of a cure , we can offer not just care , but hope . I thank the hon . member for South Devon ( Caroline Voaden ) for secure this debate , and I commend she for her work as a member of the all - party parliamentary group on dementia . it have be a thoughtful and constructive debate , with a number of truly powerful and move personal contribution from member across the Chamber . this be a cause that be close to my heart . I thank all member for their kind word about my own family , but our history be far from unique . we know that one in two of we will be affect by dementia in our lifetime — by care for someone with the condition , develop it ourselves , or both . it be predict that just under 1 . 5 million people in England will be live with dementia by 2040 . each person , along with their love one and carer , have a unique journey and their own heartbreaking story . on behalf of the Government , I thank everyone work to support people with dementia , as well as their friend , family and carer . this government will back they every step of the way . we be also back our scientist to deliver new treatment and way to care for people live with dementia , and I recently have the pleasure of visit the UK Dementia Research Institute ' s centre for care and technology , where I see some of its innovative smart - home tool . a timely diagnosis be vital to ensure that everyone can access the advice , information and support that can help they to live well with dementia and remain independent for as long as possible . this Government remain committed to the national ambition for two third of people live with dementia to receive a formal diagnosis . we be fund evidence - base improvement project to pilot the diagnose advanced dementia mandate in 14 trust . I be delighted that good practice be currently be share and promote with regional and local partner , follow an impact assessment of the pilot . Dementia can impact anyone , but there be varying and unequal access to health service . that be why the Office for Health Improvement and Disparities be work to make our country fair by develop a tool that provide a clear assessment of population characteristic , such as rurality and socioeconomic deprivation . I welcome the Minister ' s confirmation of his commitment to the diagnosis target of two third . will he put that in a key document — the equivalent of the planning guidance for NHS England ? will he ensure that that be well document and set out in a strategic document , so that we can be absolutely clear and be not rely on his oral assertion in this Chamber ? we be absolutely on the record with the 66 . 7 % target . I want to take this opportunity to set out what appear to be a philosophical difference between this Government ' s approach to our health and care system and that of many Opposition Members . we believe in devolution , we believe in decentralisation , and we believe in empower those who be close to the citizen to make the decision that need to be make . if other have a more centralise and deeply anachronistic approach to manage our health and care system , which I hear from Liberal Democrat and Conservative Members , that be up to they , but we believe in modernise our system , not micromanage or have shopping list of target . it be about provide support and agree on outcome , but leave those who be well place at the coalface to decide how good to meet the unmet need of their community . that be a very clear dividing line between we . on research , it be worth point out that we have do study with UK Research and Innovation , the Alzheimer ' s Society and the People ' s Postcode Lottery . we have find that through our investment , adapt and READ - OUT be work to produce clinical and economic datum that could bring blood test to the NHS within five year to support the diagnosis of dementia . all of this mean that the rate of diagnosis be improve . the late datum from April show that the diagnosis rate have inch up to 65 . 5 % , up 0 . 3 % since July 2024 , and it be worth note that the 66 . 7 % ambition have not be meet since 2020 . the quality and availability of care service be variable , as member have point out . we be empower local leader with the autonomy they need . we be support integrate care board . I be pleased to say that we recently publish the Dementia 100 pathway assessment tool , which bring together multiple resource into a single , consolidated training tool . that launch last month , and there have be huge interest and support from the sector , with 1 , 000 people register to attend the launch webinar . we have the dementia care pathway full implementation guidance , and we be support the implementation of that guidance through a dashboard , to enable target support where it be need . all those who have dementia deserve to receive high - quality care . we must have a workforce that be equip with the skill that be need . we be incredibly proud of everyone who work in the care sector , and they deserve the training that many member have mention . the care workforce pathway provide guidance for progression and development for professional across adult social care with the knowledge , skill , value and behaviour that our carer need . it link learn outcome to exist framework , include the dementia training standard framework . some of those learn outcome can be achieve through the training and qualification eligible for funding under the learning and development support scheme . that scheme , launch in September last year , support adult social care employer to invest in their workforce through fund training opportunity , include a range of dementia - relate qualification . I be pleased to confirm that we have back the scheme with a £ 12 million investment . pay and condition be also vital element of our workforce strategy , so I be sure member across the House will welcome our groundbreake fair pay agreement legislation in the Employment Rights Bill for adult social care worker , which be hugely significant in this context . on the question of our care workforce , a number of member have highlight the vital role that unpaid carer play . to support they , on 7 April the Government increase the carer ' s allowance weekly earning limit from £ 151 a week to £ 196 a week , which be the equivalent of 16 hour at the national living wage — the large increase in the earning limit since the carer ' s allowance be introduce in 1976 . we be very proud of that change . I understand that every person with dementia , alongside their friend , family and carer , have their own unique and important story of live with dementia . I know that I be not alone in this fight . I want to pay tribute to the Alzheimer ' s Society , Dementia UK and Alzheimer ' s Research UK for all their vital work . together , we will build a society where every person with dementia receive high - quality care from diagnosis through to the end of life . I once again thank the hon . member for South Devon for raise this vital topic . I do not think there be much to add , but I want to thank all the member who have come here today and share their personal experience of dementia affect family member and love one . I know it be not an easy thing to do , and we all have really difficult experience . it have be very move to hear those personal story . we have a Minister who deeply feel these issue and understand what dementia mean and the impact on the wide family . I would like to see properly train dementia nurse in every GP surgery and acute hospital trust in this country , so that we can keep these people at home , look after they , look after their carer , and support the people who love they and do an incredible job . I pay tribute to the hundred of organisation all over the country that be do amazing work , many of they on a voluntary basis . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider dementia care . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . in his response to my question about the dementia moonshot , I think the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Hinckley and Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) , might have get his figure wrong . could you advise I on how we can correct the record ? I thank the hon . member for raise that point of order . it be not a matter for the Chair , but she have put her point on the record . Petition - Waste Provision on Lea Hall Road , in the Garretts Green Ward in Birmingham , Hodge Hill and Solihull North I rise to present this petition on behalf of resident of Garretts Green ward in Birmingham . the petition , assist by local councillor Saddak Miah , have the full support of resident , whose quality of life have be badly affect by the lack of access to general waste bin . although recycling bin be provide , Birmingham city council say that there be " red tape " that affect resident ' right to a general waste bin . they have to put their black bag straight out on to the street , which have attract fly - tipping and vermin . I do not think resident should have to live like that , tread over rat on their way to work and school , so I be lay this petition to call for action . my constituent Yasmeen Bhatti speak for many when she tell I that the constant rubbish be severely impact family with young child and those with mobility issue , and that a solution be urgently need . the petitioner therefore request " that the House of Commons urge the Government to work with Birmingham Council to take immediate action to ensure that all resident on Lea Hall road , in the Garretts Green ward have access to general waste bin , and that these bin be collect by Birmingham city council . and the petitioner remain , etc . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the Garretts Green Ward , Birmingham , declare that resident in Garretts Green who reside on top of a grass verge need to have access to a general waste bin ; far that Birmingham Council must remove the red tape that be stop the existence of general waste bin on Lea Hall Road , in the Garretts Green area . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to work with Birmingham Council to take immediate action to ensure that all resident on Lea Hall Road , in the Garretts Green Ward have access to general waste bin , and that these bin be collect by Birmingham City Council . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p003077 ] petition - Construction of an Underpass at the Bicester Level Crossing I rise to present this petition from the resident of Bicester who want a replacement for the level crossing at London road , which will close with the introduction of east - west rail service , cut the town in two . I be grateful to the 4 , 526 resident who have individually sign this petition , and to those who work so hard to gather the signature , many of whom be sit in the Gallery tonight . the petitioner therefore request " that the House of Commons urge the Government to support the construction of an underpass at the London Road level crossing in Bicester that could accommodate car user as well as cyclist and pedestrian . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of Bicester , declare that proposal to close the London Road Level Crossing as part of the East West Rail development have fail to reflect the strong local preference for an underpass that accommodate light vehicle , cyclist and pedestrian ; and note that widespread community support for such an underpass have be express through public meeting , correspondence and local engagement . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to support the construction of an underpass at the London Road level crossing in Bicester that could accommodate car user as well as cyclist and pedestrian . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p003078 ] Petition - Banking Hub for Selkirk and Eyemouth I rise to present this petition from my constituent in the Scottish Borders to the House of Commons . it call on LINK to set up a banking hub for Selkirk and Eyemouth . I want to record my thank to the many local resident who have sign this petition . the petition state : the petition of the resident of Berwickshire , Roxburgh and Selkirk , declare that resident of Selkirk and Eyemouth be be leave without proper access to cash and banking facility . this be cause significant concern and worry for the local community , and that LINK should take the necessary step to tackle this by set up a banking hub in each of the town . far that a separate online petition on the same issue have generate 1 , 456 signature . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to consider the concern of the petitioner and take immediate action to ensure that the resident of Selkirk and Eyemouth have access to a Banking Hub , with proper access to cash and banking facility . and the petitioner remain , etc . [ p003079 ] Yeovil Hospital : Maternity Unit Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Gerald Jones . ) I start by thank the fantastic staff at yeovil district hospital ' s maternity unit and paediatric staff across the country for their hard work . I also thank the Minister for Secondary Care for come to the Chamber this evening to respond to the issue raise , which be important for Yeovil and South Somerset . in January , the Care Quality Commission inspect paediatric service at yeovil district hospital . it issue a section 29a notice because it assess that the hospital fail to meet regulation relate to staffing and governance , and therefore require significant improvement . on Monday 12 May , the hospital trust decide to temporarily close the special care baby unit at YDH from 19 May , initially for six month . that mean that the hospital will also be unable to safely provide care during labour and birth at the maternity unit , mean that the unit be effectively close . care of pregnant people due to give birth will now be transfer to Musgrove Park in Taunton , Dorchester county hospital , the Royal united hospital in Bath or Salisbury hospital . I be sure that my hon . friend know about the problem that we have have at Tiverton district hospital . I be lucky enough to have have my three son at the old Tiverton hospital . I be sure that people not be able to go to yeovil hospital to give birth will push down — literally — into Tiverton hospital , but I remind my hon . friend that there be an incident a couple of year ago when one of my constituent deliver her fifth child in a pub car park , because Tiverton hospital do not have the capacity to take she in . do he agree that the closure of maternity service at yeovil hospital impact not just Dorset and Somerset , but the hospital in my constituency ? I agree with my hon . friend and I will come to that point later in my remark . in letter and at meeting , I have directly ask senior leader at the trust for reassurance that the service will reopen after six month , but they have be unable to give it . my no . 1 priority be my constituent ' health and safety . I appreciate that the decision be difficult and that patient safety be at its heart . the safety of mother and their baby must come first , but the way in which the decision be reach and implement have be disgraceful . it have create huge fear and anger in Yeovil and may put people ' s health at risk . the hospital trust ' s leadership team say that high level of sickness among senior hospital staff cause gap in the rota , but I have be inform that those staff be off sick because of work - relate stress that be reportedly cause by a lack of support , a toxic work culture and bully from management . that be not good enough . clinician have be work desperately hard to provide quality care and have be try to work alongside management to improve the service , but they have find management to be unsupportive . it seem that the real issue be about management and about support and retain staff . after the CQC inspection , it be up to the hospital trust to plan a clear response and to ensure safe maternity service at yeovil hospital . despite money apparently not be a problem , there be a lacklustre attempt at recruitment and locum be bring in . the hospital leadership team wait until the last minute to reach a decision , and close the maternity unit with little or no consultation with staff , patient and stakeholder , such as Somerset council and mp like I . it be an insult that the hard - work staff know about the closure only six day before it be due to happen . some of they be tell on Teams and other find out on social medium — that be not how to treat staff . it be a disgrace that expectant parent be give such short notice and that the hospital trust do not provide they with advanced and detailed information about the temporary closure . yeovil hospital charity have be fundraise over the last few month for the maternity unit . it have already raise £ 2 , 000 and be due to have another huge fundraiser this month . the charity do great work for the hospital , but it too be leave in the dark , which be not good enough . it be especially worry that a decision make to protect people may put their health at risk . many expectant parent have tell I about their fear about capacity at other hospital and about travel time to Taunton , Dorchester or Bath . last year there be approximately 1 , 300 birth at yeovil hospital . Most of the patient who would have be care for at yeovil hospital will go to Musgrove Park in Taunton , where staff have already raise concern about not have enough capacity to manage their own patient number . I be grateful to the hon . member for secure this important debate . many woman in my constituency choose to give birth in Musgrove Park hospital , and with the closure at Yeovil — where , as he say , 1 , 200 baby be bear each year — there be a grave concern about whether Taunton will have the capacity to cope . in fact , mother across Somerset will suffer as a result of this closure . I agree with the hon . Gentleman , and I will come on to that point now . in September last year , report describe Musgrove Park ' s maternity unit as " traumatic , super - hot and overcrowded " . measure such as extra bed be be put in place . expect that overstretch service safely to take on extra case from Yeovil be not realistic and risk put even more pressure on the hard - work staff , who be already at break point . I be also concerned that the staff in Dorchester and Bath will be put under serious pressure and that , despite their good effort , service may suffer there too . I be particularly worried about mother who be at high risk or who may expect complication at birth . many parent in my constituency who experience complication during the birth of their child , such as Louise and Rob , have tell I that their child be alive because of the tireless work and dedication of the team at Yeovil and that their child may not have survive if they have be force to travel to Taunton , Dorchester or Bath , which be 45 minute from most of my constituent on a good day . expert have tell I they be worried that emergency such as late pregnancy per vaginal bleed require immediate medical attention and can cause death for mother and baby in the bad - case scenario . it be not just parent and paediatric who be at risk ; I be seriously concerned about the knock - on effect on Yeovil ' s emergency department , which will potentially put more strain on the hospital and on patient care . sadly , other constituent who be hope to have child have tell I that they be now reconsider because of the stress and risk pose by potentially not have proper maternity service in Yeovil . while I appreciate that this be a local issue , trust in the hospital leadership have break down . I believe that central Government have a duty of care to the people of Yeovil and that they can take step to help . I ask the Minister urgently to undertake a review of the decision - make process at the Somerset NHS foundation trust on the closure of maternity service . my hon . friend mention the Somerset NHS foundation trust , which make a decision recently to reduce the number of bed and associate staff at Frome community hospital . do he agree that those decision really need wide consultation , allow for boundary and relationship with hospital such as the RUH , as well as proper consultation with staff and the community before they be undertake ? I totally agree ; it really be just not good enough . [ interruption . ] I hope the Minister be listen . I urge the Department of Health and Social Care to do all it can to maintain and support NHS Somerset in ensure the return of safe maternity service to yeovil district hospital . just as with the closure of its hyper - acute stroke unit , many worry that this be a sign that yeovil district hospital will be turn into a cottage hospital . as such , I also ask the Minister to join NHS Somerset integrate care board in commit to maintain a fully function district general hospital in Yeovil that provide safe , high - quality and sustainable service . however , Yeovil be not alone in this : we face a crisis in maternity service , particularly in rural area . the CQC have raise safety concern about a lack of training , limited engagement with community , inadequate risk assessment and poor management and culture among senior leadership . the CQC national review of maternity service in England for 2022 - 24 find that 47 % of maternity service be rate as require improvement for safety . as of May 2025 , 56 % of maternity unit in the south - west have an overall rating of " require improvement " or " inadequate " . give that , can the Minister detail the Government ' s plan for funding and improve the provision , management and staffing of maternity service in hospital trust that cover large rural geography ? can she provide a timeline for implement those plan ? I again urge she and the Secretary of State to meet with hon . member from Somerset and Dorset to far discuss this issue and to come to Yeovil and talk to those impact by this decision . in conclusion , the closure of yeovil district hospital ' s maternity unit , initially for six month , be do for the right reason , but it be do disgracefully . People in Yeovil be not just worried ; they be scared and angry . we care deeply about support our fantastic NHS staff and the lifesave work that they do . hundred of people join I at a rally outside the hospital on the day that the maternity service close , and many more have write to I . nearly 6 , 000 people already have sign petition call for the safe return of Yeovil ' s maternity unit . we will campaign tirelessly to ensure that we can restore local maternity service in Yeovil safely . I hope that the Minister will join we in that battle , because everyone deserve access to safe , local maternity care , regardless of where they live . I thank the Minister and my hon . friend the Member for Yeovil ( Adam Dance ) for allow I to speak , and I thank my hon . friend for secure this important debate . the closure of yeovil special baby unit and maternity unit have shock many of my resident across Glastonbury and Somerton , as it do my hon . friend . after the announcement , I immediately set up a petition to gather evidence of the strength of feeling regard these vital service . since then , I have be inundate with response . I begin by echo my hon . friend ' s sentiment in thank the staff at Yeovil for their incredible work and care . Rob from Limington , a resident in my constituency , tell I that his family would not be a family without the work of yeovil staff . that be a compelling piece of information . Somerset NHS foundation trust make the decision follow a clinical assessment that service could not continue operate safely . that be a damn indictment . I commend the hon . Lady and the hon . member for Yeovil ( Adam Dance ) on their campaign . to reinforce the point evidentially on the closure of yeovil hospital maternity unit , the impact on the community will be great ; it happen to I at Ards hospital , where GP service be overrun with the work that have to be do . Midwives complain that the impact on the community be great , and the effect be not just on the maternity unit , but on NHS service overall . the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right that the impact be not just within the county , but cause a huge knock - on effect on wide service . the decision be a damn indictment of how our health service have be treat , and how they have be run into the ground follow the Conservatives ' regular cut . resident in Glastonbury and Somerton be devastate , and be concerned that this six - month temporary closure could then become permanent . I have have many example of resident contact I , include Ben . he and his wife be from Martock , and be expect their first child in September . they have plan a home birth with support from the yeovil midwifery team . they can still access those service , but if complication arise , they will no long be able to rely on yeovil hospital service , which be only a 15 - minute drive away . they will have to go a lot far , drive at least 45 minute to access Taunton , Royal United hospital , Dorchester or Salisbury . there be so many unanswered question , especially on how the closure will affect the capacity of Taunton ' s Musgrove Park hospital , or Dorchester or Bath ' s maternity unit . we need clarity now . our resident deserve that . will the Minister give we and our constituent that clarity , so that those who be look forward to start a new family or who be grow their family can know that the journey through their pregnancy will be safe and that they will have a family beyond that ? I thank the hon . member for Yeovil ( Adam Dance ) for secure this important debate about the temporary closure of maternity service at yeovil district hospital . I know , have give birth to three myself , that choose where to give birth and the planning of that journey , as have be outline , be incredibly important for woman . we be determined that all woman be give choice over their care and be listen to and support with compassion . the hon . member be an advocate for the yeovil community , and I welcome his representation , ensure that his constituent ' voice be hear . that be an important role for member of Parliament . I will start by acknowledge the concern that hon . member have raise on their constituent ' behalf , both in their letter and in this debate , and I hope I can update they on the relevant issue as they stand . in prepare for this debate , I have meet the trust and Somerset ICB , and I be grateful for their time and briefing on these issue . as hon . member know , the trust can not safely staff the paediatric service as well as the special care baby unit . this mean that it have take the difficult decision to close the special care baby unit , which also mean that it can not safely provide maternity service — I think that point be acknowledge by the hon . member for Yeovil . the hon . Member be concerned about the process follow by Somerset NHS foundation trust in come to this decision , particularly about it not have consult the local council , mps or other stakeholder . he also identify concern about the information go to staff . in some situation , such as this one , NHS provider may need to make a temporary service change due to a risk to the safety or welfare of patient or staff . legislation allow they to do so without consult the scrutiny committee beforehand , provide that that service change be need for safety or welfare reason . I understand that the trust brief Somerset county council ' s health overview and scrutiny committee on 15 May , and have commit to far update the committee in October . the trust have have one - to - one conversation with affected woman and family to help they with alternative plan , which have be support by Somerset Maternity and Neonatal Voices Partnership . do the Minister agree that the timescale give to our NHS staff , and tell they on Teams or not tell they at all — with they find out on social medium — be not the right way to treat they ? imagine how that make those staff feel . I be not aware of the operational detail of how the decision be communicate , but I be happy to come back to that . as I have say , when decision be make for reason of safety — which be of primary importance — sometimes staff will not be able to be consult in the usual way . of course , some staff will not be work at a give time , or may be on holiday , and organisation have to take particular measure to inform staff . I appreciate that that be very disruptive and personally distress for staff who have be work in a unit and need to know where to go , but emergency situation sometimes necessitate thing not be do as robustly as might be desire . local leader have assure I that this closure be not intend to be permanent — that be very important for hon . member and their constituent to understand . the trust be commit to review the position in three and six month , and follow the three - month review , Somerset ICB will provide an update in September . finally , once a decision be make , any permanent change would need to be base on clear evidence of well outcome for patient . on the wide issue that have be raise this evening , as hon . member will be aware , the Government ' s position be that change to NHS service should always be locally lead and clinically evidence . any decision about the next step for the neonatal and maternity service at yeovil hospital should be take by the local NHS , with support from the Care Quality Commission . I understand that work be currently under way to mitigate the impact of the closure and move towards safe operation of service . the NHS England South West regional team be work with the trust and the ICB to mitigate the risk of the closure and ensure that the wide system work together to provide safe service . the trust be work closely with neighbouring hospital in Bath , Salisbury , Poole , Dorchester and Exeter to ensure sufficient capacity , which should provide assurance to local people . regional team clinical leader have attend a rapid quality review meeting with ICB and trust clinical leader , and work continue on mitigate the risk that have be identify . I have be assure that Somerset ICB will monitor progress against improvement plan , formally note any new or emerge risk and action require . it will also be monitor the impact on Musgrove Park maternity unit . I understand that Somerset NHS foundation trust and Somerset ICB have also write to the hon . member for Yeovil since the closure and that there be due to be a call with local mps tomorrow . I think that be good progress ; as I say to representative of the trust when I meet they , I commend that way of operate with local member of Parliament . I hope it be helpful in have detailed conversation locally to reassure hon . member and — more importantly , if I may say so — their constituent at what I appreciate be a really difficult time for woman who be either due to give birth , or be think about start a family . we be committed to tackle staffing challenge that the NHS face , such as this one . for the maternity workforce , NHS England be undertake a programme of target retention work for midwife . this include a midwife retention self - assessment tool , a mentoring scheme , strengthen advice and support on pension , and flexible retirement option . NHS England have also invest in unit - base retention leader , who focus on retention and give pastoral support to midwife . this initiative , alongside investment in workforce capacity , have see a reduction in the number of vacancy and in leaver and turnover rate . maternity care remain a top priority for provider , as be demonstrate in the planning guidance , in which the NHS be instruct to improve safety in maternity and neonatal service as a priority . I know that there be concern in Somerset more widely about how this change will affect service in the local area . let I reassure member that NHS Somerset be commit to invest in local service for both hospital there . that include a commitment to a fully function district general hospital in Yeovil . the yeovil diagnostic centre , which be due to open later this year , will be a modern , three - storey , state - of - the - art centre base at Yeovil district hospital . it will have the capacity to deliver an additional 70 , 000 diagnostic test and out - patient appointment each year and to be open seven day a week , provide radiology , endoscopy and cardiology service , audiology test and out - patient appointment . I thank the hon . member for Yeovil again for raise this important issue . I know that he and his colleague will keep a close eye on progress . I hope that I have respond to his immediate concern tonight , and I will of course write to he and other member shortly in response to their letter of 19 May . may I raise the issue of maternity service at Musgrove Park hospital , which will be take on a number of patient ? an upgrade that be due have now be push back to the mid - 2030s . at present , maternity service be provide in a 1940s dormitory - style building . do that really show mother - to - be that their need be be prioritise ? I be of course aware of that , because I lead on the new hospital programme . the Government be commit to a clear timetable for the programme , which include Musgrove Park . in our Budget last autumn , we announce decision — which the hon . Lady and her colleague do not support — involve capital plan and ensure that that programme be now on a financial footing that it be not on previously . I be confident that the local NHS be aware of the impact of this change and continue to work hard to improve the situation . any change in NHS service must be make with the utmost sensitivity to local view , while also prioritise safety . I know that member will continue to monitor this issue , and I will ensure that they receive a response to the letter of 19 May . question put and agree to . House adjourn .